ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19442	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the National Assembly. Given that today is Thursday, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19443	Madam President, there is an ongoing fight against corruption in Serbia, but definitely the fight against corruption has not covered all corrupt affairs, which not only in recent years, but also for decades have shaken the country. One of the current topics is the suspicion that the theft of babies from maternity homes has been going on in Serbia for decades and that it is a classic human trafficking. It is obvious that following some rulings from Strasbourg, Serbia will have to deal more seriously with these issues in the coming period, as the Strasbourg court ruled that one of the mothers who stole the baby more than 30 years ago would be paid compensation. This example can also be applied in other cases and a special agency should be established to address only this problem. I recall that the work of the Assembly committees, or poll committees, was often ineffective, but one polling committee that was unanimous in its conclusions, is a survey committee that was formed in 2005 and found that there are really reasonable doubts that baby theft in Serbian maternity sites has been carried out for decades. But eight years after those findings, we do not have a single court epilogue of the affair, nor do we have a single arrested or responsible one. As a rule, the paperwork from the maternity ward is lame and suspicious. In common with most cases, babies are born alive. Health Department inspections are obviously ineffective because they didn't do their job. It is speculated that in the black market the price of a baby is around 15,000 euros, and doubts that in Serbia over the past few decades, about 6,000 babies have been stolen, and 2,000 parents have not received confirmation that their baby has been buried, while 99% of parents have not seen their newborn's body. The question to the Prime Minister and the Police Minister – will a special agency be formed to deal with only these cases of baby theft in Serbia? The health minister's question – what has the Health Ministry inspection done specifically on these issues. The second affair, which also did not receive a court epilogue, is the resale of radiation terms at the Oncology Institute in Vojvodina. For several years now, this affair has been taking place, and it is suspected that patients with malignancies have been denied the right to treatment, obtaining confirmation of the inability to provide radiotherapy services within 30 days, thus preventing them from being treated elsewhere. This has been established by the Anti-Corruption Agency and similar conclusions are made by the competent Committee on Health. On all this, the Anti-Corruption Agency has also reached its conclusions. Anti-corruption doctors are absolutely agreed that this matter must be investigated until the end, however, they suspect it is in conjunction with the prosecutor's office and the health ministry, to buy time so that this affair does not get its judicial epilogue. The current chairman of the Assembly Health Committee, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, has repeatedly asked for extraordinary expert supervision that the health ministry has never ordered. My question to health ministers, Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, is why is it that the Ministry of Health, in doubt that there really is one big affair, which has cost many people their lives, because it is the patients with the most severe diseases, has never ordered extraordinary professional supervision, and it is obvious that neither the previous health minister did? The third leg of corruption is corruption in the work of customs services. The largest black market generator is believed to be inefficient work by customs services. Customs work is subject to purely internal control. The high degree of corruption prevents any control. The result of high-level corruption in customs is a major economic loss for the state and the budget, in addition to jeopardising the country's security. That is why, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, insider and external control must be urgently established. The question of the police minister is, when will internal and external control be established, and when will the new customs law arrive in the assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19444	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19445	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this direct transmission, request a notice from the Sports Ministry and from the Ministry of Business and Finance. In the introduction of a notice I would like to get information on, I would say what every citizen of Serbia knows and feels at the moment, that it is hard to live and, unfortunately, there is no money for the most needed things, so also for the health of the citizens and, saddestly, for the health of the youngest. We are witnessing that humanitarian actions are organised daily, involving good people and good companies that raise money for children for whom there is a cure, but unfortunately, Serbia does not have enough money. But there seems to be enough money for some spheres for which so-called. Social upgrades, which I also think are very important and should be resolved and a way of funding sports clubs from the budget. So that's my theme. I ask the Ministry of Sports, and the Ministry of Business and Finance, are there rules and rules and criteria by which sports clubs from the budget are financed, above all from public enterprises' budgets? We are witnessing these days that a drama is being made on the public scene of Serbia by manipulating, as I say, the sports feelings and emotions of millions of Serbian citizens on the one hand. On the other hand, if you dare to ask how much money it is, how much money is paid and how much pay anyone has in sports clubs, you become anathemized and hostile. So, I insist, in the coming months and days if I have opportunities, I will ask many more times – on which criteria certain sports clubs in certain sports are given the funds of Serbian citizens, and that even we who are representatives of Serbian citizens, or Serbian citizens, must not even ask how much a professional basketball player has a salary, how much a coach has, because then you become a godless enemy of that club or that sport. I remind all citizens of Serbia with joy and pride that our girls are yesterday defending the country's colors, and they're playing, we all know that at what level, as far as finance is concerned, women's basketball, but they're playing with the heart and soul and they cheered this poor people up, to get some encouragement and some joy at these moments. So I ask – under what conditions public enterprises that have even grants from the state budget finance sports clubs. So to be clear here, let me give you a plastic example. What do the citizens of Serbia and fellow MPs think, don't be angry with some who are not from the King or from the Casca. Kraljno and Cačak are also the cradles of Serbian basketball, do you think the "Slog" from the Kings with the budget that some Belgrade clubs have would play the Euro League? She'd play. I'd also play "fighter" from Chačka, and on condition that I give it as a Cachanian, that at least half of the city of Kings from the city of Chačka. But, well, as a fan of a Belgrade club, I understand that most Serbian citizens support these clubs, I'm just saying that it should be handled in a transparent manner. If you knew how much anybody's paid, how much money they pay, and what that money's for, it wouldn't happen now that some sports club officials are reporting without you even asking them how much money it is. So it doesn't happen that a coat of arms, the sanctity of one such as the Red Star, is sold. If someone already says they're state clubs, they're national brands, and they are, then there's no reason why we don't know, transparently, publicly, and what about the financials in that club. Some congregations of 20 people meet in these clubs, choose for life. We can know everything, we just can't know how much money Serbian citizens give in these, as the institutions say. Unlike European countries where, for example, in English clubs, a player goes from club to club, all the newspapers publish it on front pages as much as it costs and what tax it is, but that's not the case here. It then creates without need some doubt, especially in this difficult time in which Serbian citizens live.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19446	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19447	I have two questions for the prime minister. The first question concerns the library for the blind, which contains 45,000 books, and whose users are 12 thousand blind and weak-sighted people from Serbia. This library has stopped working these days, and the explanation is that there is no money for her work. The state co-financed, and in most parts it co-financed the work of this library, its publishing biotasking activity, paid for the work of a library that carried books to users in Belgrade, library and librarians, and all other costs of this library. It's now stopped. They say there's no money. It seems that for Constantine alone, there's money in the ministry. The union of blind Serbs asked the state to pay off a share of the 10m dinar debt for publishing and library activity, then sign a contract that will transform the library into a public institution of culture. They are also asked to have the rest of the budget paid by October. What are the numbers, so we can talk? They were paid in 2008, eight million, 2009 and 2010 nine million, in 2011 six comas eight million, in 2012, nine million, in 2013 and no dinar has been paid to date. My question concerns the prime minister. In this case, why are the funds provided for in the budget not being paid to the users to whom it was intended? Secondly, who is responsible and who threatens the right of 12,000 people to education and inform through sound books and the "bray letter" and why does this person do it? The second issue concerns this phenomenon that has been happening throughout Serbia since April of the month until today, when Serbia looks into the sky and begs God not to fall into the city. Accidents like those in India, Jagodina, Mupriya, Paracina, Rekovac or Nis left terrible material damage. Today, 8.5,000 hectares of agricultural cultures in Serbia have been killed and the damage is huge. On the night the storm fell on India and the city fell the size of its fist, it acted as an anti-building defense. At seven places, 24 missiles were fired, so three and a half missiles were fired across the city. The minimum we've set here by law is 15 rockets. I figure the anti-building defense was working, she spotted the cloud in time, she did it in time, but she didn't have a rocket. Who's responsible for the fact that we don't have any missiles? Since December of last year, I have been listening to the Chief of the Emergency Sector that says that every dinar invested in the prevention of ten times returns to Serbia. It speaks of the need to invest 350 million on an annual basis to buy 15,000 rockets and that with such an outdated system as ours, which is partly reformed thanks to the law that it returns to the authority of the MUP and with such a system, it is possible to cover the damages that are being done. My question to the prime minister is this - why does the government not respect the law itself? We have the law that we passed, the Emergency Act, we have the budget, why don't these documents be respected? Secondly, from what means will damage be paid to people who have suffered damage, what in cities, houses, cars and the like, what about agricultural cultures that are enormously large? Third, the most important question – why is the responsibility for the purchase of anti-urban missiles now being transferred to local self-government by making contracts with them, when it is clear that local self-governments cannot buy these missiles, they cannot assume responsibility, you have not paid them the funds, you have taken away their terribly large funds, you have abolished them, and you have transferred them huge powers. This isn't a job for local self-government, this is a job for the state and I'm looking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19448	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19449	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the President of Parliament, that is, for you as chairman – what should we, as Members of Parliament, do further to ensure that the Serbian Government, in accordance with the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, provides us with answers within the legal deadline? They repeat the question I asked a month ago, my colleague Bojan Djuric two or three weeks ago, and it is about respecting the Law on Public Enterprises. Has the Government of the Republic of Serbia put aside the Law on Public Enterprises adopted by the assembly in December 2012. The provisions of this Public Enterprise Act are extremely clear and say – that all public enterprises whose founder is a republic, province and local self-government are obliged to bring their founding acts into line with the Law on Public Enterprises by February 2013. My question to the Serbian government is - what are the companies whose founder, the Republic of Serbia, agreed its founding acts with this law on public enterprises? In fact, 25 public enterprises established by the Republic of Serbia are operating in the Republic of Serbia. Four are in the status of stock companies, seven are in DOO status. When we talk here about stock companies and companies being run as DOOs, I mean public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia under this law on public enterprises, and they have an activity that is of general interest. The second question – for which public enterprises, founded by the Republic of Serbia, is called a competition and will be called a competition for the selection of directors by 30 June 2013? The Energy Minister said 15 days ago that competitions would be called only for those public enterprises where the official of duty was appointed. Where does this say in this law on public enterprises? The first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vucic, on TV show, says he will replace several directors of public enterprises during the reconstruction of the SNS government. On the basis of which member of the Law on Public Enterprises can any party change members, directors of public enterprises? Also, on the basis of what law has the Serbian government appointed from February to this day boards of public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia? Under the provisions of this law, there are no more boards of directors, there are supervisory committees numbering five members and, necessarily, one member of that Supervisory Board should be independent and so on. An expert personality. Meanwhile, the Serbian government has appointed administrative committees for five public enterprises. Management boards. She named the managing bodies of public enterprises that don't exist under the law. Is that the rule of law? Are those European standards? Once again, I will remind you that in these 36 public enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia, around 93,000 employees are currently employed by citizens, and that the subsidies these public enterprises receive from the budget are about 27 billion dinars. The Serbian government violates the law, or has it put out of force the law passed by this assembly of the Republic of Serbia? What else do you call it than being insolent, blatant and not using a word that could mean a crawling dictatorship? It is good that today we have representatives of the DRI to hear this, representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because for the presidents of the boards of directors, such as "Serbiagas", the mayor of Kruševec, who does not exist under the Law on Public Enterprises, has been appointed. Then how can you ask any citizen of the Republic of Serbia to respect any law of the Republic of Serbia when the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19450	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19451	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, my questions will be addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture and to the Prime Minister. The Ministry of Agriculture, because the issues are from agriculture, but since we expect the government to be reconstructed and that the agriculture minister is already feeling reconstructed, then we ask the prime minister – what will the state do to buy the mercantile wheat this year? We have information that millers offer a price of 16 dinars per kilogram of mercantile wheat. This is not enough to cover basic production costs. I remind you, last year, the Stock Reserve Directorate purchased mercantile wheat at the price of 23 dinars. Last year's price was 20 dinars. Now, given that we received a budget rebalancing proposal yesterday, we see that the budget rebalance provides for the withdrawal of funds from the Billion-per-billion-dollar Stock Reserve Directorate, a reduction in the subsidy of 3.3 billion dinars is also foreseen, and the ministry will not be able to finance anti-building protection. My next question is, does this country really want to put an end to and destroy agriculture? We've been looking for information from the Stock Reserve Directorate on whether she's ready to buy mercantile wheat this year? We got the answer. For the realisation of the ransom, it is necessary to draw a special conclusion to the Government that would provide for the financing and conditions of the purchase of mercantile wheat. The harvest has already begun and the government has not yet reached a conclusion that will provide for the purchase of mercantile wheat. When we asked the Minister of Agriculture 15 days ago when subsidies for farmers would be paid, we received an answer – within seven days. Within seven days no subsidy is paid, according to the Treasury Administration, any single subsidy dinar. Currently, 64 thousand registered agricultural holdings expect payment of subsidies. We've also scheduled a Agriculture Committee, called the Minister of Agriculture, who himself set a deadline when he came to the Committee, didn't show up, didn't report he wasn't coming and didn't send anyone from his ministry to replace him. Today we were informed that Minister Goran Knezevic was prevented from attending the assembly session today at 1600 hours to ask parliamentary questions in the government. I ask the Prime Minister – does he even have a Minister of Agriculture? We passed the Agricultural Encouragement Act back in January of this year, by emergency procedure. We're going in July. It has been six months, and the law stipulates that the minister is closer to prescribing the conditions and way of exercising his right to credit support for agricultural land. In six months, no regulation has been laid down to provide credit support to agricultural holdings. The State allows the price of wheat to be only 16 dinars per kg, does not pay the subsidy for agricultural production and does not provide credit support to agricultural producers. The next question is about the leper's graduation... (President: Time, Mr. Senic. Finish it. )......................................................................................................... And a huge material damage has been done. Our question that we always ask and ask from both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture – when the allowed concentration of aflatoxin will be returned to 0.05 micrograms per kilogram, given that current regulations raise children's health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19452	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to ask for an explanation? Please, just sign in. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19453	The esteemed chairman, respected MPs, believe it or not, in downtown Belgrade, six kilometers from Terrace, in Kotjes, the Palilul municipality, has been breaking out of sewers for five months now. There's a refugee camp in that part. In the entire village, and also in Belgrade, especially in the Palilula municipality, an ecological health disaster threatens. Representatives of the evasive and displaced faces reacted. The public enterprise responsible for this job in the municipality of Palilula, the Commissioner for Refugees and Displaced Persons, personally the mayor of Belgrade Dragan Gilas, and believe it or not, but you were eyewitnesses, I also asked a two-time parliamentary question about it, Mr. Mayor one and the other and Minister for Local Self-Government. The answers were amazing. The mayor insulted me, as you heard, as I informed you at a session, and the local self-government minister informed me that it was not in the jurisdiction of the ministry and that they had not spoken to her personally. Dear People's MPs, this is the problem of the control function of the Assembly and the ministries responsible from local, by vertical, self-government to this assembly. I ask the question, first -- does the competent ministry want to ask a question of responsibility, do they think Mayor Dragan Gillis is going to question the responsibility of his service and does Mr Commissioner for Refugees resign? They even mock there. Representatives reacted, the UN was coming. I must say that the competent public services should enter that commissionership, since Mr. Commissioner has been sitting there for many years to report on the measures taken. Is he thinking of reacting to the president of the Palilu municipality because they spoke to him several times? The second question – in many universities in the Republic of Serbia, there are teachers who teach in two, three, four, five and eight universities in a third working relationship. By law, I can only go to one college. It's the same situation at the institutes. Believe it or not, some at the same time have a working relationship in another country, where they do a job and retirement, at the same time double pensions. Dear People's MPs, there's no such thing as anywhere in the world. At a time of crisis, in a time of nonsense, it's impossible. The Serbian Progressive Party has been at a pre-election time and we will not rest until the competent ministries have passed the law. I ask the question – does the Ministry of Education and Science stop through inspections this unprecedented scandal? For example, I suggest that he put under the glass the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, with me in Kosovo Mitrovica, Nis, Novi Sad and take the Historical Institute in Belgrade, to start with something. At the same time, we are closing the possibility for younger generations to take over these scientific institutions and eventually improve science. Once again, I ask the competent inspection services to finally wake up and the competent ministries to wake up and make this unprecedented and unremembered scandal stop. I also ask the neighbouring states, the presidents of the states, the presidents of the government, the ministries to put an end to this scandal together. It's a scandal of unprecedented proportions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19454	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momir Stojanović, Dejan Rajcic, Slavica Saveljic, Marko Jaksic and Milorad Stosic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I invited the meeting today to attend: Radoslav Sretenović, chairman of the DRI Council with associates and Tatjana Babic, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, with associates. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the 4th and 5th points of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts in the agenda under points 4 and 5 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The time of the debate by the parliamentary groups has been given to you in the material. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. 192. and 193.a. as referred to in Article 157(2). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint single search on: Report on the work of the DRI for 2012, which was submitted by the DRI, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 19 June 2013 and the Annual Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2012, which was submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government since 24 June 2013. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Do the committee's reporters want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? I ask the People's MPs, since we've got a report of authorised representatives, and no one's answering me for a word, that if they want to, let them sign up. Here you go, Mr. Sretenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19455	The Honorable President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today I have the special honour and pleasure that with my fellow Members, members of the Council and the Supreme State Auditors I can present the report on the work of the DRI, which is being discussed for the first time in plenary. The members of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending discussed last week the report on the work of the DRI for 2012, and here is now an opportunity for all MPs to discuss the Report. The state audit institution, as the highest state body, is responsible for the revision of public funds in the Republic of Serbia for its work and is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly. In accordance with this and in accordance with the DRI Act, the institution submitted its sixth report on the work to the National Assembly within a legal period. The institution is conducting an external review of the public sector and represents one of the key features in the financial responsibility system in the Republic of Serbia. Our goal is to support the achievement of parliamentary control over the spending of public funds in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to public funds, citizens also have legitimate expectations that the National Assembly, with the help of the DRI, will provide effective public supervision and accountability. I believe that the report, which I have the honour to present to you today, will provide the National Assembly and the Financial Committee with a stable basis for such supervision, when it comes to spending public funds on financial and budgetary 2011 respectively. Before presenting the report on the work, I'll just briefly present and say a few words about the institution. As is known, the Council is the collegiate and highest body of the institution that has five members: the President, the Vice-President and three members. At its session of the 9th extraordinary session in 2012 held on 25 September 2012, the National Assembly elected members of the DRI Council to appoint top state auditors in four sectors, to adopt the 2013 Financial Plan, to adopt the 2013 Audit Programme and to decide on the objections of the audit entity. In addition to the five sectors so far for the revision of financial reports and regularity of business during 2012, the DRI has undertaken activities to form a sector for the revision of the purpose of business, as well as to create preconditions for the introduction of a completeness audit. In late November 2012, the Supreme State Auditor was appointed in this sector. This is how preparations were started to carry out the first review of purposefulness. We are now in the final stage of planning this kind of audit, which for the subject has the management of the official vehicles of direct users of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The audit is intended as a first objective to clearly and unambiguously determine how official vehicles are purchased, how many official vehicles there are, whose, who and how they are used and how much money is allocated for their use, i.e. fuel, maintenance, registration, parking. As regards the number of employees on 31 December 2011, the total number of employees was 152, of which five council members, 124 audit services and 23 in the accompanying services. At present, 173 people, i.e. personnel, are employed in the institution, 140 to the work of audits, 25 to follow-up services and five council members. Since 1 July, seven new audit staff will begin their work, so that the institution will have 180 employees in total. By the end of this year, the institution will, according to the staff plan, provide for work conditions, first of all, I mean space, to receive another 48 new employees in audit jobs. We expect the institution to have 235 employees at the end of the year. I note that in July 2012, the amended Regulation on the internal organisation of job systematization, which opened new jobs in Užica and Kragujevac, also amended the rules on the internal organisation of job systems, has increased the number of perpetrators from 206 to 416. The institution today uses business space in Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade. Ensuring business space in Užica and Kragujevac is under way. In Belgrade, the institution uses offices at five separate locations. This presents a problem in the communication of employees and increases the overall cost of business. It is necessary for the institution to obtain an appropriate comprehensive and compact business space, for uninterrupted communication between employees, information exchange, information security, secure data archiving and documentation, which is one of the components of the institution's independence. Due to insufficient and inadequate business space, no planned human-accept dynamics have been respected. This did not call into question the implementation of the 2012 revision programme, but additionally burdened all the audit teams. I would like to say that in 2012 the institution fully accomplished the planned tasks. In line with the review programme, and based on the criteria set out, the DRI carried out a review of the financial reports and the regularity of 46 entities, as well as audits of the components of the financial reports, 97 of them. This means that the institution has disclosed 143 audit reports, ending on December 31st, which is more than 300% compared to the number of reports issued for the previous year. In January 2013, we published a report on the revision of the company's "Termoelectrics and Kostolac" and at the end of March the report on the revision of the Public Enterprise "Serbiagas" from Novi Sad. The final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's 2011 budget were audited, and the final accounts included audits of components of the 14 ministry's financial reports, three administrations and three funds. We have audited the NBS in the business area with public funds, i.e. funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We have audited Serbia's public debt, in particular five ministries, two agencies, 16 public enterprises, 21 local self-government unit, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and in the framework of the Fund's final account, an audit of the components of financial reports and regularity of 78 pharmacies and health homes was carried out. This was accompanied by 28 positive opinions, 100 opinions with a reserve, and 15 reports voiced an opinion with a reserve with a abstention from giving an opinion on the balance sheet. Four positive opinions and 74 negative opinions have been expressed in relation to the regularity of pharmacy and health care homes, which have pharmacies in their composition, in the part of the procurement of medicinal products issued on the burden of the means of compulsory health insurance. During 2012, in addition to reviewing financial reports and business regularity for 2011, the DRI also followed the implementation of 525 recommendations made through the report, which relate to the revision of financial reports and the regularity of business for 2010. In 2012, the audit entities provided evidence through response reports that they had followed 408 recommendations, 109 started the removal procedures, while eight recommendations were not implemented. When it comes to reports on the revision of financial reports and the regularity of business for 2011, the DRI issued a total of 787 recommendations to the audited entities. This number should be added to 35 other recommendations related to the Business Company "Termoelectrics and Kostolac Kotolac" and the Public Enterprise "Srbijagas" that were given in 2013. The DRI initiative amended the Law on the Budgetary System, the Criminal Code, the Public Procurement Act, the Health Insurance Act. In order not to repeat all the recommendations made in the sector work report, I note that the most important recommendations relate to the adoption and content of an internal act governing the accounting system and the signature of all business processes. These recommendations are important for the establishment and functioning of the financial management and control system, i.e. the internal control system and internal audit. The establishment of internal control and internal audit is very important, as this is the first level of defence against unintended and irrational spending of public funds. Only when this system becomes functional can we expect a better picture and better results in the system of financial control in the public sector. Important recommendations also refer to the list of financial and not financial assets and liabilities, to the consistent application of international accounting standards, and to show real financial results, i.e. profits, when it comes to public enterprises. Then, with regard to the preparation, adoption, implementation of the budget of units of local self-government, or cities and municipalities, as well as recommendations on the adoption and implementation of the financial plan, the financing of health care at the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Recommendations to prescribe form and content, a report on the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia in the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and to include in the report on the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia and the obligations that constitute the debt of the general state. The implementation of the recommendations will be followed in 2013 and based on the conclusions adopted by the members of the Finance Committee last week. The institutions will submit a detailed report in September on the implementation of all recommendations made. In accordance with the responsibilities of the institution for detected irregularities, as shown in the audit report, and for non-compliance with certain provisions of the Budgetary System Act, the Public Procurement Act, the Accounting and Audit Act by audited entities, in 2012, the institution submitted 154 requests for the initiation of the infringement procedure, 23 applications for a commercial offence and one criminal application. This number should be added to the applications submitted at the beginning of the year, which relate to the 2012 audit report, in 2011, so that 253 applications were submitted in total. Of this, 216 is a request for the initiation of criminal proceedings, 28 applications for economic crime and nine criminal charges. As I first address MPs of the National Assembly on the work report, I would like to emphasise that the DRI has submitted 462 applications to date, 382 requests for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure, 57 for a commercial offence, and 23 criminal charges. I'll stress, all the reports the DRI filed have been processed. The proceedings take a long time, and recently we are getting information about suspended procedures due to the limitations of the conduct of the proceedings, especially in public enterprises, which suggests a slowness in the conduct of the courts. In 2012, on the basis of the rules on the programme and how to pass the call exams and the authorised state auditor, the examination for the acquisition of the call was successfully completed by 39 candidates. The Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget for the work of the institution is defined by the amount of 442 million dinars. Due to the uncoordinated dynamics of providing business space, the implementation of the human resources plan, there have been significant cuts in costs relative to the budget, so the DRI made more than 100 million dinars available to the Republic of Serbia during the rebalance. In addition to funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, the institution has also made donations worth 37.5 million dinars from the foreign ministry, the Kingdom of Norway, into two tranches, and one part from the UNDP. As regards the co-operation of the DRI with international institutions and organisations, I stress that since November 2008, the institution has been a full member of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions - INTOSAI, since June 2009, of the European Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions - EUROSAI, and since August 2010, the institution has been a member of the Network of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the candidate countries and potential candidates for EU membership and the European Court of Auditors. In August 2012, the DRI ended four years of co-operation with the Office of the General Auditor-General of the Kingdom of Norway. I would also like to stress that in October 2012, the institution launched a very important two-year financing project titled "Strengthening the capacity of the DRI", which the EU is financing with 1.4m euros from IPA's assets in 2011. A partner on the project was selected by the Dutch-British consortium of the High Auditing Institution of the Netherlands and the Office of the Auditors of Great Britain. The aim of the project is to coordinate the organisation structure, procedures, practices and overall results of the work of the institution with international standards and best practice of the EU. The institution also co-operates with Sigm and the UNDP within the project "Strengthening the Public Finance Mechanism", the US Agency for International Development, USAID, on a project for judicial reform and responsible authorities, the OSCE Mission, the EU delegation to the Republic of Serbia, the Office for European Integration and the World Bank. We also co-operate with the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, in particular the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Anti-Corruption Council, the Public Procurement Agency, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement, the Office for the Audit of the EU Fund Management System and the Office for Co-operation with Civil Society. Of course, and with means of public information. The state audit institution has worked so far to justify the trust the National Assembly has given it, supporting it in parliamentary oversight of public spending. Circumstances regarding budget spending are changing because the awareness of people with taxpayers' money is changing. Responsibilities are increasing at all levels, from local to central. Our citizens are also very important allies because they appear almost daily to us and point to irregularities regarding the spending of public funds. The work and results of the DRI, with the exception of the National Assembly and the local public, are also followed by the European Commission, so the European Commission's 2012 progress report estimated to have made progress in the field of external audit, the DRI continued to build its capacities, continue to improve the audit methodology and to increase audit coverage. Then, in the Commission's opinion on Serbia's request for EU membership since 12 October, it also stressed that the DRI has started to play an important role in public spending control and in detecting consumption irregularities. I am taking the opportunity today to thank all the members of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on constructive co-operation and the support they have given us all this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19456	Thank you. Mrs. Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19457	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, the Anti-Corruption Agency as an independent and independent state body, which for its work corresponds to the National Assembly, submits for the third time a report to the National Assembly on its work. So it's a 2012 work report. The Anti-Corruption Agency has been entrusted with a number of responsibilities, many of which are in the field of preventive anti-corruption action, and a number of responsibilities are in the field of supervision and control of the proper and meaningful use of public powers given to public officials. Given the meaning of the law of entrusted competences of the Agency, the role of the Agency is that, removing the causes of corruption, it creates conditions for building a system of transparent and responsible public authorities and a system of personal integrity of public officials. The Agency's work and particularly on the public attitude towards the Agency in the previous year are two of the most important events, and this is primarily about calling and holding elections at all levels, which were a test of performance and preparedness of the Agency to control the correctness of the cost of money in politics. Another event that has greatly affected the Agency's work is the resolution of the previous director. In 2012, the Agency achieved the following key results. First of all, the previous year was the last stage of preparation for the introduction of integrity plans into around 4,500 state authorities and organisations, the authorities of territorial autonomy of local self-government, public services and public enterprises. Through direct work with target groups, the Agency has provided information and advice on the concept and introduction of integrity plans for 3.102 representatives from 1,902 public authorities in Serbia. Fulfilling this goal has been developed and made available complete user package including software, guides, manuals, manuals, trainings, advices, action models and data collection instruments, as well as everything else needed to facilitate the process of introducing integrity plans to the greatest extent possible. In the area of incompatibility of public functions and conflicts of interest, the Agency acted and completed its work in a total of 785 of the 872 cases received, i.e. 90% of all cases received in the previous year. In the case of the control of public officials' assets, the Agency shall, in order to increase the efficiency of that control, in the previous year, connect informationally with the database of the Republic of Geodetic Institute, and in the previous year, technical implementation of the information linkage with the Agency’s industrial registers, tax authorities and the Central Charter Register of Values was launched. With some of these institutions, the Agency established such direct cooperation in the current year, i.e. direct data exchange. Compared to 2011, the efficiency of processing and publishing of property reports and public officials' revenues has been increased, approximately four times compared to 2011. There has also been an increase in the activities of thematic areas and the coverage of target groups when it comes to education. The educational forms included 3,679 participants, of which 96% were representatives of public authorities, and the duration of educational events was 91 days. In 2013, the Agency will pay particular attention to intensifying the control of the financing of political entities, strengthening the control of the transfer of management rights in companies owned by officials, which is another mechanism for preventing the use of public functions in order to gain benefits or benefits for officials and related persons. Special attention will also be paid to increasing the number of cases in which the control of public officials' assets will be carried out by official duty. The focus will also be on strengthening mechanisms for dealing with citizens and legal persons, improving capacity to analyse the risk of corruption in those areas that citizens most often complain about and increase both the number and quality of opinions and the report on the risks of corruption in draft regulations. In order to make the Agency's work more effective and efficient, the Anti-Corruption Agency shall give the following recommendations to the National Assembly. First, the Agency should be empowered to draw up and publish a methodology for the analysis of the risk to corruption in regulations and it is necessary to oblige the legislator to apply this methodology during the preparation of the rules. Thus, this methodology does not match the methodology adopted by the National Assembly Legislative Committee. The subject of this methodology is merely an assessment of the risk of corruption in regulations and the amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act need to be made to the Agency's trust in this authority, and the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Government and the National Assembly shall oblige the legislators to apply the methodology. For the purpose of carrying out the control of public officials' assets, direct and direct access to the Anti-Corruption Agency of other state authorities and legal entities should be provided, to entrust the Agency with the authority to prescribe training programmes in public authorities, in order to make education in the field of combating corruption mandatory and consistent for all state institutions. It is necessary to extend the circle of persons subject to the obligation of a public official to report their assets and revenues. It is also necessary, for the sake of more effective control of public officials' assets, to introduce an obligation for public officials to report extraordinary changes in their assets, immediately after the change has taken place, i.e. within a very short time after the change is made. It is necessary to make it more clear by law that the Agency's powers to carry out extraordinary checks on public officials' assets, outside of the annual verification plan. It is then necessary to strengthen the material status and responsibility of employees of the Anti-Corruption Agency in order to ensure that they are subject to the same prohibitions and obligations as public officials and that those obligations are subject to certain rights in respect of material status. It is necessary to introduce a ban on the appointment, election and appointment of public officials previously imposed by the Agency by one of the measures prescribed by this law, to introduce public debates in the procedures conducted by the Agency, for infringements of the Agency's Law and finally, to introduce and public hearing when considering the report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19458	Thank you. I ask again, do the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps today we are discussing two of the most important reports concerning the management and spending of public funds in the Republic of Serbia and what has happened in the past not only a year, but also a longer period of time. The State Auditing Institution was established not only with the intention to control the legality of the procurement process, but also the purpose and justification of the subject-matter of the procurement. If that were justified, I could only tell you that there were even cases that the subject of public procurement was a vehicle for the delivery of official mail and that, instead of some vehicle suitable for such a situation and such purpose, Mercedes was purchased. So much for the fact that certain managers entrusted with public funds were made available to these public funds and spent. I can also say that the State Audit Institute has had a lot of difficulties in its work. First, they were not provided with adequate space for their work, it seems to me that the Republic Property Directorate and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have, knowingly, sabotaged the work of the State Auditing Institution, and in a later period they did not simply have the capacity to do what was required by law and to meet those expectations by the legislator established by the State Auditing Institution. The next problem was that even if the State Auditing Institution finds it in its control and audits a certain irregularity, what about them? She could report to the National Assembly and discuss this report here at the tide, as we are now discussing. But the question of responsibility, especially those criminal or criminal, could only have been done by a competent police officer or a procedure to initiate a competent prosecutor, according to his findings, and was not obliged to read the State Audit Authority's report. You remember that there was a lot of controversy in the public, so we finally transferred power to the State Auditing Institution so that it could file criminal and criminal charges and charges for the initiation of a commercial offence. Part of the application was filed. But now I'm very interested in, say, 154 criminal charges were made in 2012, what is the fate of these criminal charges? How much is it with the outcome that the responsible persons are punished, how freed and how prosecuted even to justice? That's where we find the next problem. Our misdemeanor courts are often not up to this area to know how to carry out the procedure until the end, so that we can also give a recommendation to the Ministry of Justice, as now follows the Law on Infringements, to carry out a particular education of judges for violations, so, if necessary, to establish a part of the criminal court that would be in charge of one of these areas. I'm also interested -- what about the criminal charges that were filed? Have these criminal charges become legal, in the sense that the indictment has become judicial, the courts later to do their part of the job, or are the prosecutors still somehow indelicate in this area? Of course, during the past period, especially between 2008 and 2012, there has been pressure on the State Auditing Institution, especially on those political pressures, and, of course, one of the great shortcomings was the Public Procurement Act itself, which was supervised by the State Auditing Institution. Yes, we have passed a new Law on Public Procurement, and that law provides for a criminal offence, which gave little more authority to the State Auditing Institution, that those who do not have the money of all citizens, in the way that the law predicted, criminally and correspond. These are all the difficulties that the State Audit Institute had in its work, from its establishment to the beginning of the Law on Public Procurement. When the report is read, there is a large number of public procurements by emergency procedure. For many, this does not mean anything, but public procurement by emergency means a negotiation procedure with only one participant and the conclusion of a public procurement contract with only one participant. I'd like the state auditor to say, in neighborhoods, what it looked like, and I know that in the last quarter of 2012, the number of public procurements by emergency procedure fell by 70%. Due to the application of the new Public Procurement Act, the number of public procurement by emergency procedure is only 10%, and the total amount spent on public procurement by emergency procedure by 31 March 2013, 90% of this amount is apothecary institutions. We had a problem with the Public Procurement Act in the earlier period and it is obvious that many entities applying the Public Procurement Act wanted to continue as usual, to put pressure on both the State Auditing Institution and the Public Procurement Administration and the Public Procurement Commission and to continue, in an urgent procedure, with one participant and to spend disproportionately money on that service or goods being sold to them. I'm glad the DRI insists that the subject of public procurement be paid as much as it really costs, especially without some strange annexes that were before, so the most favourable offer is the most expensive. I'd like you to control the new items of the revision of your annex contracts. Whether they were started before work or providing the service of the subject-matter or afterwards in the procedure itself. This is very important and there are already elements there, because if the annex is completed before the procedure, i.e. before the launch of public works or the provision of services, then the intentional law was violated by the chosen highest bidder and later turned out to be the most expensive. In such cases, the contracting authority could interrupt or stop the procurement process and carry out a new procedure and expect them to. We insist, we from the SNS, that the DRI and all other competent authorities insist on the consistent implementation of the Public Procurement Act as it is written, and if someone tries to question the lives and health of the citizens in order to continue to put money in their pocket, I expect that criminal charges are filed against them. In doing so, I think most of all of the apothecary institutions that made papaziania tried to make papazjania more than the Public Procurement Act. When it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is also established as one regulatory body to control public officials entrusted with public authority. I agree with these remarks that you made, if necessary, in the National Assembly, we can make one working group, but with you, let's see what the problems in the Agency's Law are and solve these problems in the best way possible. I fully agree that according to your report, the Anti-Corruption Agency was not ready for the republican elections. I don't want to get into it now if it's the director or anyone else. I believe that the Agency itself, without any political pressure in its ranks, first cleared with irresponsible persons and thus built one level of trust, the integrity that in the next period will continue its work in the best possible way. Of course, for those of us who are involved in politics, the most interesting thing so far is the consistent application of the Law on the financing of political activities. We believe that in the next period it should be even more stringent and of course control of public officials' assets, i.e. if they own some property, they should justify from which income they have made it. I know that there are certain problems here, although there are problems between state authorities such as the Tax Administration, competent courts as well as the National Assembly are willing to help as much as possible. We will vote for these two reports as SNS, because we think they are real, to show one real picture of what is in us and on public finances and on the fight against corruption, and we will insist that, despite the good results that both organs have, independent regulatory bodies, that they can always do better, always more and expect it from you in your further work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19460	Thank you. MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19461	Dear Vice-Presidents, representatives of independent regulatory bodies, the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, to say at first that LDP MPs will vote for these reports because we believe they are made up in a serious way, that is one reason. Another reason is that they, in particular the DRI report or the DRI report, actually show or confirm what the LDP has been talking about in the political sense for almost every day in parliament for six years. Absolute chaos in Serbia's state system. Unseriousness in any attempt at reform. The abuse of public funds, primarily public resources not so much for day-to-day political or party purposes as for the purpose of preserving a system that actually damages the citizens of this country every year by several billion euros in direct damages and who knows how much more money, as lawyers would say, escape benefits or escape profits. I will speak significantly more about the work, or reports of the DRI. You know Mr. Sretenovic that you've always had full support for what you've been doing or trying to do. You've shown seriousness on your part, and you're showing it today as well as at every meeting we have here on the tide or in some other way almost all the people who handle different sectors in your institution have been here and these conversations have always been useful. Of course, your range, your ability to work is limited and we've talked about it a few dozen times. That may have been the most convincing or as the parliament should be stepped forward by someone who led an independent institution yesterday, or the Citizens' Protector. These are not only problems related to 2012 or to this government that took office at the end of July of last year, these are the problems of an unregulated society for many years. I would like to remind you that once again, the LDP has criticised the inadmissible practice of public funds management, public property and while the previous government was in power, that is, in the mandate of Mirko Cvetkovic. I will try to through some, let me put it this way in case studies, maybe point to some of the key problems and show how there is no fundamental difference between what today's government is doing, although Mr. Arsic, of course, has tried in several places to commend the current government very strongly compared to what previous authorities have done. Sticam, I would say happy circumstances, a big story has been opened over the past few days about whether or not he is calculating and paying VAT taxes on PDV JP "The Ways of Serbia". The finance minister seems to me to have announced yesterday that the ministry has received a letter from JP "The Ways of Serbia" that the company will be accounting for and paying VAT as of July 1st. It's scandalous in a few ways. First, it is obvious that public enterprises, especially JP "The Ways of Serbia", are the only legal entity in this country that has the freedom to decide when and when to charge and pay VAT, which is usually its legal obligation forever. In fact, from the moment Serbia has a VAT law. Another problem is how it is possible for years to tolerate such an absolutely illegal, arrogant and rude practice of JP "Serbian Roads"? It's been happening under this government, under the Ministry of Finance and Business, and it's been happening all these years. I was just saying what the LDP was doing over the years. I personally recalled the case and took parts of the December 2011 stenogram of the session where I am asking the Prime Minister and the December 2011 press conference. That's when your preliminary report for the year came out, where you found that in 2010 alone, JP "Serb Roads" did not pay a VAT of 23m euros. So in that year alone, Serbia's budget was damaged by 23m euros. A similar situation was in previous years, the same situation in 2011 in 2012. So, they cannot negotiate with the state or indirectly with citizens whether they will pay taxes or not. To make the citizens understand, when they pay tolls or some other cost of "The Ways of Serbia", the amount of VAT is included in that price. Of course, the management of this company these days, and that's what they have to fall on, not only as the people who run the company, but all those who chose them through the Republic government, are now trying to deliver 20% of VAT in the future to Serbian citizens. So, JP "Serbian Roads" threatens citizens that because of their obligation to pay VAT, they will have to raise the price of their services, tolls by 20%, and that is a naked direct thief, which is the amount that several tenths of millions of euros in each calendar or fiscal year, whatever you want. Of course, the company has no money and is therefore trying to increase the price and cost of VAT to citizens who use their services. Why doesn't the company have any money, it also confirms what the DRI has been talking about for years? Because in dozens of ways he does business under the law and one thing at a time. The second thing, the DRI can't talk much about, because of the limited mechanisms it has, but it's obvious true, because there's political pressure on that company or on the company, like all other public enterprises, to order jobs that they know there won't be money in the budget, or because the budgets here are completely unrealistically planned every year, because the paper suffers everything, orders are done, jobs are done, then they're not paid, then they're pushed into the problem and "The Ways of Serbia" and all those companies that are contractors of the "The Ways of Serbia" or how popular it is, and how ill to say the last days in Serbia, so -- travel companies, so that's even the name of the law that's going to be considered here for the next weeks. That's why you have a problem with 26 companies in the area of travel industry and therefore you have an absolute collapse in JP "The Ways of Serbia", as exists in the vast majority of public enterprises. The third reason Serbian Roads avoid the law, break the law, steal Serbian citizens, steal Serbia's budget, which is a mono-political enterprise, or on a Serbian alcove of straw escape, so anyone can do whatever they want. The director of the company can be so rude that for the citizens who died because of the company's failure, he says – so they are not deadlocks, they could see such a pillar at Novi Sad, so it is a media advertising company. So, "Serbian Roads" are advertised in the media, I guess, to raise their business success, because when citizens see the advertisement "The Road of Serbia", using highways managed by the company and not using highways managed by another company, because there is another company in the area in Serbia. Please, Mr. Sretenovic, that you and your institution, when you work in 2013, take care of the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises adopted in December 2012 here. You are now authorised to, when you establish that a public company which has a monopoly position on the domestic market, which entered the law on the LDP proposal, is commercially advertised on the market, to file criminal charges for an appropriate crime, if there is no other crime. Let it be of some benefit to the part we hold in our legislation, to abuse our official position, or position in the economy, and to submit by that member of the Criminal Code, criminal charges, that I do not remind you, because basketball ended primarily a few days ago. The competition was played by the "Vojvodina Srbijagas" club, and the competition is called the "Agrosive League of Serbia". For those of you who don't know, Agroziv is the dependent public enterprise of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas". You're losing, just like his owner, Srbigas. Is "Serbigas" a monopoly on our market? In the business of gas imports, it is a monopoliest. So it's absolutely inadmissible that there's a basketball club that has that name, and it's even worse that a company that deals with gas imports and distribution, and, by the way, makes pâtés, sausages and dry meats, sponsors the basketball league, not to mention the conflict of interest that in this league plays a club that owns the entire competition. It's not a question to DRI. Once again, it is not the fault of the director of "Serbiagas" for producing pâtétes and sausages, the Serbian government is guilty and it is all the governments of Serbia who are driven by public enterprises, Mr. Sretenovicu. If Mr. Arsic would allow us to move on, Mr. Sretenovic, we continue to communicate, I'd like to ask you something else. Excuse me, Mr. Arsic. So, what happens to the irregularities you've been constantly finding in the JAT Airways company over the past few years, so on. A national airline? In one year you found, Mr. Sretenovic, that the company did not even pay the market as provided by the law, and it seems to me that it was 3.5m euros in 2010. Since no one in this country listened to what the LDP said was a mess in that company, party management, such as party management, and after the government's shift, that it was insinuately spending money, then we needed someone to come on the side and tell us that, so the Etyhad representatives came and hit the most brutal slap I've seen in the past few years in this system of thieving and inefficientness through the system of public and state-owned enterprises. So Etihad said or JAT will no longer function according to the principles of public enterprise, inefficient, poor and with loss, or we will not enter into business arrangements in that company and see what happens in the end. So if those who made decisions in this country had listened, let's say the DRI reports two years ago, perhaps today the situation in JAT would have been better, perhaps accumulated losses in the company would not have been far above the value of the company's assets, and perhaps the company would have stopped printing a rudely expensive and luxurious "JAT magazine" in a situation where each year it receives tens of millions of direct or indirect subsidies from Serbia's budget. What happened, Mr. Sretenovic, with the incredible situation that JAT is agreeing or in co-operation with the Serbian government agreeing to the public and parliament that he needs a loan for the purchase of two planes, that then this parliament, with the votes and those parties that are in power today, allows a guarantee for such an arrangement, that JAT takes tens of millions of euros and then spends them on its current business and does not take airplanes or lease them at all, let alone buy them as he promised. Where and in what country is such a business possible? I'm not asking you, Mr. Sretenovic, you can't answer that question, I'm asking those who were and who are still the government in this country. Let's move on, Mr. Arsic talks a lot about how everything in Serbia has changed and everything is better today. When we talk about this famous one, it's the biggest problem in the 2012 report, or your audit reports that you've been doing in that year, is the problem of getting gas, importing gas at "Srbigas". You and I, everyone in this room is aware that this was not the personal and private act of the director of the company, but that such a method of gas procurement, beyond all rules, stems from the laws adopted in this Assembly of the Energy Agreement with Russia, from those approved annual contracts concluded with the Russians, for the fact that for completely unknown reasons, unless it's the reason why we take the commission we have the trustees in this business, that this intermediary is not our company, or that our state in the brokerage company has only 25% ownership. It is not only the past government or past governments, it is all those parties, and all those MPs who, despite the warnings of the LDP, LSDV, seem to me to have concluded a disastrous deal with the Russian Federation, which is why we are paying the price and we will pay the price for years. Another example of how nothing changed today compared to the previous year is the behaviour of Minister Bačević, a senior SNS official, not to enter what part of the SNS. It's a minister who enters the business of designing an insidious channel to Thessaloniki, publicly laughing, his party colleagues uncomfortable. But, Mr. Sretenovic, it's a started job where some public funds from the ministry's budget have already been hired, whatever. If no funds were hired, some kind of promise was made. There's been a business with some Chinese company that, I can say, is going through Serbia. Another example of Mr. Bačević's behaviour, and that means all new authorities. Mr. Bacevic informs us from Moscow that he is agreeing with the Russian side, that Serbia will not have any cost of building the South Stream pipeline, that Russia will pay everything, and that the Russian side will then collect its claim from future rents, or a transit taxi through Serbia. Such an agreement is directly contrary to all the laws of this country, especially legislation that regulates very precise what the South Stream is, that we do not open other issues, how the South Stream operates from a Swiss canton, as it did. Now, let me tell you right now, I don't mind being a brother-in-law, and I think it's legitimate, and it's allowed when it's within the law frameworks, but I can't watch that harangus run against those who do business or allegedly do business in the short zones, and then the state-run company does the same thing. It's a hypocrisy that destroys this country's private sector, which is causing you so many problems. At the very end, whether it was observed through the 2012 report, I think there are a lot of activities or that some of the activities in the project were undertaken in that year, in any case, a large majority in 2013. It is, for example, a scandalous project to celebrate the anniversary of the Milan Edict and everything that arises from it. Except that it's a palanic approach to history and culture, it's also a transge-frange economy. This is where theatre plays are directly arranged, obviously done by that adviser to the President of the Republic of Culture who claims Nis is the largest Roman city after Rome, it's semi-private projections, it's millions and millions of dinars that no one knows how they were chosen, who decides. Mr Sretenovicu, these are projects under the direct auspices of the President of the Republic or the President of the Republic and his wife. They give meaning to such events by their authority. Public money is being spent either directly or through that money that comes from the state or public sector in different ways. When the culture minister says there is no cost for, I don't know, costumes and scenography, because it was done by the National Theatre, it's the cost of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the National Theatre is a republican institution that is partly financed from public sources, it's not enthusiasts like jazz players who play without money, as the culture minister and the owner of an independent pastry workshop would say. Finally, at the very end, Mr. Sretenovic, when will the DRI enter the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, but in a serious way? Let's see what the legal frameworks for working in that company are, this fund, which is not really a fund, but is the flow boiler that we have to put two, three billion euros in, let's say, per this budget rebalance we're going to get in a few days, so let's see how that company is managed. Is it normal for the PIO Fund to have 21 board members? Five of the world's largest multinational companies do not have 21 members of the administration, such as the pension fund, headed by Serbian JP Morgan and the president of the independent union, Ljubisav Orgovic. "JP Morgan" because it's a practice to sit at the same time on boards of a bunch of companies, say, "Galeniks", the PIO Fund, etc., and then play some kind of tripartite or social dialogue. Let's see when the PIO Fund will finally determine what its assets are, and then start managing that property and benefit from it, as normally funds do everywhere in the world, except in Serbia, and see who sits on the board of the PIO Fund and whether decisions are made for the benefit of certain groups, primarily political groups. A significant part of the board members of the PIO Fund consists of direct or masked PUPS representatives, masked through a phantom organisation called the Union of Pensioners of Serbia and through which no other pension association is allowed to enter the management. It is the largest source of abuse in this country, Mr. Sretenovic, because the annual budget, i.e. the money that passes through the PIO Fund, is significantly higher than five billion euros. Five billion euros is half the country's budget. The fund depends on millions and 700,000 pensioners and hundreds of thousands of other people who are indirectly living on it, so let's see how public enterprises finally betray these magazines, I end up very quickly, from JAT magazine and "The Voice of Insurance", which has birth certificates and prescriptions for ajvar and Bayaders, to Glasil "Serbishum" and every other phantom voice of public enterprises in Serbia. When we do that, then we will begin to solve seriously the problems of party employment, money spills, buying media influence and everything else that will not be resolved by the Public Procurement Act at the very end, as we have told representatives of SNS and other parties a hundred times, when they have passed a law on public enterprises. It's not the biggest source of abuse that's just law enforcement. The biggest reason why so much money goes away is because there are too many public procurements in Serbia and too many public sectors. Once that's reduced, there'll be a lot less damage or loss on those jobs, and thank you for letting me talk a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19462	The word has Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague obviously has one custom of making mosquito ass out of mosquitoes. It seems to me that he knows our new coalition partners best because they were in power in Belgrade from 2008 to 2012, so one of the biggest robberies of Serbia was, and the city of Belgrade that has the second budget in the Republic of Serbia, the first is the republic, the second is the budget of the city of Belgrade, and that is over 300m euros for the bridge on Ada. Why didn't you criticise it here, but you kept your mouth shut? When it comes to the public company "Serb Roads" and VAT, you should learn, I agree that everyone should pay VAT, but you should learn that someone who does not pay value added tax does not have the right to deduct value added tax, so that amount of 23 million dinars, you don't know, that's what it's all about, far less than you really want to show. When it comes to getting gas, we can only buy gas from whoever has gas and who wants to sell it to us. Get some cheaper, too, if you can. I'm saying you can't. Not a mediator owned by the Russian Federation to give up his fees. When it comes to the South Stream, you should also know the Bonds Act, and you should know the compensations. When it comes to Milan's edict and public procurement in the field of culture, the Republic Public Procurement Administration has very detailedly described the public procurement process in the area of culture. Take it, then when you read it, go out to criticise it, and in any case it is very rude, because the Milan edict is an international event, and Serbia is the central place in it. If you're ashamed of it, I don't know what's good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19464	The word has Bojan Đuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19465	I don't know, Mr. Arsic, I mentioned you as head of the parliamentary group, I didn't mention you either as a mosquito, or as a second, I don't know why you're reacting that way? I wasn't talking about living things, I was talking about negative phenomena in spending funds. I know very well about the bonding rights, and I think I got the highest grade from that class, and I mean it just the year you took the law school board, headed by your president, Vojislav Seselj. As for the deduction and non-rejection, there is Mr. Sretenovic, who has confirmed, has damaged the public enterprise "Serb Roads" by tens of millions of euros over the past few years, whether the budget is not? Tell me, Mr. Arsic, will he collect the toll or will he not collect the toll? That's the only thing that matters to citizens, not yours, so it's not even accounting interpretations, the serious accountant was Mirko Cvetkovic, you're not even that. If you want to talk this rude way, half the joke was laughing here when you asked Mr. Sretenovic earlier – did criminal charges become legal? Believe me, no one here understands what law enforcement means, so when it's already learned from the Milan Edict, it's learned from another important part of Roman civilization, and that's, say, Roman law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19466	National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19467	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, apparently my colleague, the previous speaker, has never worked the final account of any company, so he doesn't know. That's the problem. You know, accounting, as much as you try to show it, it's science and but it's small and crafty. You must know that. You say someone was laughing. There are in our rights and indictments. You can file a criminal complaint, and the prosecution is filed by the prosecution, because someone can appeal to the criminal council, it becomes either judicial or rejected. That's what I asked, so don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. You know very well in what state we found the state, what laws were, that both laws and sublaws were written on purpose so that someone could get involved, that someone wouldn't be responsible for what he did. Also, the rule of law almost didn't exist. If you think there's a magic wand to get rid of it overnight, it doesn't exist. Fighting abuse, corruption and organised crime is a systemic struggle. All state authorities should participate in it. As I said yesterday on the tide, first those who work in state authorities should give up bad habits that are not their faults, because those who have led the state over the past 12 years have taught them these bad habits. We need to clear this up first. One of the organs that opposed bad habits was DRI. That's why her leadership almost didn't change when we came to power. The same situation is with the Anti-Corruption Agency. That's why we support their reports, not just to get cheap political points and attack every little thing that can happen and every sign in the paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19468	National MP Bojan Djuric, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19469	Maybe it's a little thing for you, for me it's a job worth over a billion euros a year. Importing gas for Serbia's territory is no small matter, Mr. Arsic. Of course, there is no magic wand, as you have now said, as well as the secretary of Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce Stefan Krkobibic in one of the interviews several days ago. I agree with you that these changes must be systemic. You know what we're different about, Mr. Arsic? You're an optimist, and you think you'll be able to build a system where everyone's great is brilliant, honest and counting. I don't think it's ever an efficient system, I think the public sector has to be as small as possible and it's going to reduce the space for abuses. Why don't I believe you? Because I absolutely don't believe that the person who did the final accounts in his private, independent trade shop is called Dragoljub Simonovic, and today is the director of the Railways, that doing those final reports absolutely does not help him to be a successful director of such a large system as "The Railways of Serbia". "And to clarify for the thousandth time, I would never in my life want to be the director of Railways, governor of the NBS, as your party colleague wished, because I think it should be done by people who have been doing it all their lives and who will answer for it. That's why we're talking professional management, and that's why we suggest you do it. You didn't do any of that. This morning you did not answer the question – will you call public competitions in 700 state and public enterprises in Serbia in three days, as you are bound by the law that you adopted in this assembly? When we establish this system, then the personal quality, the personal estimates, the number of final accounts that have been made, the number, say, not the adopted final accounts of the budget in this assembly, cease to be so important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19470	The speech is attended by MP Milan Lapcevic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19471	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the distinguished representatives of these two very important institutions, on the agenda today we have a report on the work of the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, these very important bodies, independent institutions, which need to fix a picture of Serbia in the area where we have not really been celebrated and where we have been classified as one of the most problematic states in Europe for years. The corruption index, measured every year by international institutions dealing with this problem, shows that Serbia has progressed since 2000, since the start of this measurement, in terms of reducing corruption in our country, but that this progress has been controversial and that in one period from 2001 to 2008, it has made constant progress, and from 2008 to today, either a fall or a stagnation. Significant acts have been adopted between 2005 and 2007 to define this social problem. A Anti-Corruption Strategy has been adopted, action plans have been adopted and the DRI Act has been adopted, on the basis of which both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency have been established, which have started their work. A law on preventing conflicts of interest has also been passed, all in line with the Strategy, and with the desire for Serbia to change its image and to reduce public funds through corruption to a minimum. As far as public funds are concerned, funds collected in the Republic of Serbia's budget or in the budgets of local self-government, public enterprises. It is, of course, our interest as a representative of citizens to take care of it and to prevent all possible abuses by those people who lead those institutions from treating them in one quality way and that state money, the money citizens spend as it has always been, domestically, without waste and with the possibility of preventing any abuse. Since 2007, since the establishment of an audit institution, there has been a lot of problems in its work. We have discussed these problems dozens of times in this House. In 2008/2009, we fought together to ensure that the institution gets all the preconditions so that it could function normally. It was, of course, obstructions, and it was especially from the executive authority's representatives in the previous term, but, like all children's diseases, they are time-consuming and today the DRI seems to be already third, fourth year in a row has its hands full, but it also has full capacity to achieve everything that the objectives of the state's audit each year achieves and to make its effects visible through the reports we receive, but also by reducing the waste of public funds, which is, after all, the goal of establishing such an institution. The report we received states that the state audit during last year was processed by 47 entities, that in this sense the processed and final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget and 14 units of local self-government, eight ministries, tax administrations, customs administrations, agencies, 16 public enterprises, the National Bank, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the National Employment Service. During both last and this year, we received reports on business audits, i.e. the revision of the entities that I have listed, and almost every report lists a number of irregularities in their functioning, business, which are led to abuses of various species. So, in what we were getting from you, as reports, we could read that local self-government budgets did not properly guide accounting, that a lot of things were done under the law through public procurement procedures, and that the State's audit was based on a series of different reports from criminal and criminal, although many more criminal, much less criminal. Reports coming in on the revision of various ministries and public enterprises and other entities could also show that there were clear objections to the business of these entities and that certain applications were submitted in these cases. However, what Serbia's public expected and what would certainly be a wish and all of us here is that what is found to be an irregularity is really being and being processed in one proper way and being adequately punished. I understand that an audit institution in some segments and has no full or sufficient authority to take more rigorous measures when such irregularities are found, but I simply think that the auditors and the Board of Auditors themselves, so as a state auditor, you must have more courage and sometimes more courageously take firm and determined steps to combat such irregularities. Last year, when we discussed your new election, the election of the new Council, we pointed to these problems, and we gave you support and encouragement to deal more courageously and vigorously with such abuses, alluding first of all that all these things had to be sanctioned much more strongly and that you had to resort to the institution of filing criminal charges more frequently than it has ever seemed, and most of all it came down to criminal charges. It's about irregularities measuring hundreds or even dozens of billions of dinars in different entities. I don't want to mention what you mentioned in the report last year on the Nish budget audit, where it was found on 140 pages more than 150 irregularities that are heavy and hundreds of millions of dinars. In the end, it all came down to a number of misdemeanors that have neither been completed nor known to the epilogue of these infringements. If the aim of the State Audit is to sanction irregularities, if the goal is to pre-warn for some future times of abuse, then these things are indeed inadmissible. If hundreds of millions of dinars are found to have passed by the law, how is it possible then it comes down to a number of misdemeanor reports, and then from these misdemeanors it comes to that people's report – eaten by a donkey wolf, nothing. The same applies to other entities. I'm very interested, since we've received a report on the revision of "Serbiagas" and various irregularities about public procurement, the spending of funds unintendedly, what happened to the applications for "Srbigas"? What happened to the applications that referred to Galenika and other companies that were subject to review? What happened to the applications to the ministries that spent money beyond what the law provides? As for the Anti-Corruption Agency, its impact is really necessary in a country like this where the corruption index is measured by a score of 3.4 or 3.3 depending on the year we observe. Serbia is somewhere in the 84th place by corruption in the world of 178 countries, and unfortunately, there are both Grenada and Moldova and some African countries that are certainly not commendable. To prevent such things, I fully support the initiative or whatever it is, the proposal by Mrs Babic, which sought greater institutional powers to control public officials and their assets. If you're looking for something like that, me and the DSS consider it positive progress, then maybe you should make some other positive moves. For example, when reporting property. Every year, every elected official or appointed person in this country has an obligation to report every income and every income. In doing so, these revenues are of a public character and they go through various financial institutions that have all the data on it. When someone doesn't report by accident or on purpose, all one of any kind of income, the example works, he doesn't pay, or he's got some donation, or he's got some cobwebs, then they notify him after a month that you didn't deliver that and that paper in that amount. Then the logical question arises – what is the purpose of reporting property or income when all the tax administration's data are on them? If so, on the basis of the home number, the tax administration should list all the incomes that anyone in this country has had, a rock and a clear thing shall be determined. You have no reason to fill a lot of paper every time, get some different certificates, go to various institutions, and it all applies within certain deadlines. I think it's completely excess and 21st century, a century of electronic communications. There are much better ways to get to how much income someone has over the year and how much property they have. Also, one principled remark, I'm not angry, it's a personal memo that came to me, to make a statement about some fields, plots or garages in another city, which I've never heard or had anything to do with. One, two, three, etc. I guess people who deal with matter work at the agency, who have quality data, and I don't think things like this really have anything to do with what the agency needs to deal with are supposed to make these mistakes. All in all, these are absolutely well-intentioned suggestions. We will also support your report and, of course, the DRI report, as DSS, with certain objections that we will make and suggestions that we consider to be relevant for better work and for one and the other institutions, and all in order to reduce this famous index of corruption and a better image of Serbia as a country that is decorated and in which there is no theft from the public budget, there is no money laundering through public procurement or abuse of the position of various state officials from ministers to directors of public enterprises, institutions, president of municipalities, mayors etc. etc. It's a frantic information about public procurement, and it's mainly about when we talk about corruption and about DRI. These are the data concerning the abuse of public procurement. Serbia is estimated to spend more than four billion euros annually on various public procurements. Also worrying is that nearly 1/5, depending on the year to year, from 800m euros to even 1 billion euros per year, are being abused through these public procurements, i.e. washed or stolen, as people say. What I got from the data is really amazing to me. The revision on the regularity of business and the application of the Public Procurement Act found that supplies of goods, services and works were made contrary to the law of as many as 86 billion dinars. Therefore, the audit found that there were abuses through public procurement of 86 billion dinars. This does not mean that 86 billion dinars are literally washed, but through such a sum, there has been abuse, and of that there are as many as 25 billion dinars in terms of abuse that these public procurements were not in the public procurement plan of a specific entity at all. Is it possible that nearly 250m euros in public funds are being spent, and that this is not foreseen by the public procurement plan, which probably indicates that it may not have been necessary, i.e. that the purpose of public procurement was not justified at all? In public enterprises, the situation was no better. Of all the public procurement, as many as 50 billion dinars have been used against the law. There were probably various kinds of abuses of advertising, different choice of suppliers, and as many as 12 billion dinars were spent on various types of goods that were not foreseen by any act, or public procurement plan for a certain year. In local self-government 35 billion dinars were also used against the law, and 12 billion were not planned for public procurement at all, and was spent. In the ministry, the situation is similar, with national employment services, etc. All this suggests that despite the existence of these two important institutions that are doing their job professionally and responsibly, unfortunately many resources are still being poured out through public procurement and various other types of abuses. The work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI is very responsible and for the coming years, your work and your engagement must be far more visible, with more courage, with more institutional mechanisms to reduce these things from one side through the punishment and detection of abuses, and on the other hand to reduce the entire volume of funds and corruption in Serbia to the index and try to make that famous billion dinars that are washed through public procurement and through various types of abuses to some normal extent that can classify us on a scale with these countries that are far more well-organised and where we can say that Serbia is one regulated country in which citizens' income can function and where citizens' incomes are poured into the budget are spent in a quality way, without being abused. In the end, I would like to ask a few questions that I raised during the debate. They refer to the fate of applications submitted by auditors against various entities during the previous years. Is the problem with court proceedings or perhaps the problem with the insufficient powers that the DRI has? What has the DRI done in terms of its recommendations or initiatives to amend the Law in these vast abuses in public procurement? When will the review of the political parties and the purpose of this review begin I am interested. What I would especially like to point out and praise is one new sector within the DRI, which is the sector dealing with the purpose of spending public funds. A lot of money is spent in this country buying fabricated goods, services and goods, something that is completely unnecessary and irrational without any justification. So far, the revision has controlled what was planned -- whether there was abuse or not, and now I believe that a lot of attention will be paid to whether something is necessary for the purchase and whether certain money that is spent is needed to be spent on a service or good. I believe other parliamentary groups will have similar objections. The Democratic Party of Serbia will support your reports. (President: Time. I'm done. We will support you to continue to work with full capacity with much more desire and strength to process those we call untouchable and that through the applications you file to courts there is also punishment for those who abuse the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19472	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19473	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear DRI representatives and the Anti-Corruption Agency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, we have two very important reports on the work of the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency and the SPS will first and foremost support both reports for a reason if we look at and compare the reports of these two institutions compared to previous years, it is evident that one permanent development and progress of these two institutions in certain areas can be observed. In certain segments, this progress is more pronounced and somewhat less pronounced. We also heard some proposals from both institutions to improve the work and what was bad in the previous period, what is expected from the National Assembly of the RS and other institutions that should in any case support the work of these two institutions. Appreciateing first and foremost the development of these two SPS institutions will support both reports. In my presentation, I will dedicate my accent and my time more to the DRI report. Although I will certainly touch the Anti-Corruption Agency in certain segments and at certain points and compare the possibility of co-operation between these two institutions and results. First of all, when it comes to DRI, it is evident that it is an institution that provides primarily for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to carry out public oversight in an adequate way or to convince us that public funds are being spent purposely, efficiently and effectively. In this sense, it is very important because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, above all, as the highest legislative body and body, has the interest to follow to the end how laws are implemented and everything that the National Assembly regulates, and if we add citizens and the public to this, the DRI is, in that sense, the professional organisation that has the greatest responsibility to convince citizens of the Republic of Serbia that public funds are spent primarily on purpose, we hope from this year and meaningfully or not to know where every dinar of taxpayers or citizens is and in what way is spent. The state of public finances is certainly a permanent process that deserves attention and can only be improved by one serious approach from year to year and if we look at the first report of the DRI relating to the RS budget where one third of the cash flows were covered and where we did not have an opinion expressed, we have come into the position that we have today had 143 audit reports, if I am not mistaken, and the data has been reported to be an increase of 300%. We had the same information when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, when it comes to the property of officials, which covers four times as much as the previous year. There is development and progress in the work of both institutions, as I said in the introduction. What does it matter? It is important because of the certainty of all those subject to the control of the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency. A certain degree of control or revision is very important and I would like to compare it with the grey economy in Serbia. All entities that should be subject to any kind of control, if they have a reliable certainty that one day, at some point, they will be audited, controlled and reviewed, will certainly be more inclined to operate in accordance with the law and not go into the gray economy zone or to operate any kind of action beyond the law. On the other hand, I want to say that it is very important and the scope and both of these institutions have shown that they are both improving and that, from the budget's revision, the National Bank of Serbia and public enterprises and local self-government and funds, and that is an evident progress, I would say within a very short time. I appreciate that citizens, of course, recognize in every sense a large number of performances, which both institutions are talking about, as well. It is good that the Agency's director has said that much more attention this year will be given to citizens' performances. In that sense, I expect, of course, the DRI in that sense has one such approach. Why is this certainty and coverage as important? We have information that in individual entities subject to audit or control, for almost 20 years no institution has been able to perform either audit or control or anything else. You can imagine what a situation is especially in some smaller environments, where it has practically become some business scheme, where it has been transferred year after year and some inerts have been applied, or "good practice". It seems to me that one illusion has been broken since this year. We had such a case with pharmacies, where they were acting literally in terms of and relation to the Public Procurement Act, or in some other laws, applying all the same measures, although they seemed to me, in the good part, aware that they were breaking the law. As a result, it is very important that the review and control is very important and that everyone in Serbia knows that one moment, one moment, one day, they can get either review or control, and that is certainly in this sense an incentive to work in accordance with the law. By considering the DRI report on the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, we agreed almost unanimously and agreed that by considering the recommendations that the DRI made this year, and it seems to me for 2011 that around 525, we discussed this in the previous report, I voted in favour of this recommendation to provide us with a report on the extent of these recommendations by the revised entities. I think it is important to say that this is very important because meeting the recommendations, which have been identified as certain irregularities or the possibility of improving public finances in entities, will contribute slowly, year by year, to one needed level and each individual subject of the audit, if it raises the quality of its public finances, will raise the level of general finances at the level of the Republic of Serbia. I know the DRI may have a problem with time, maybe with capacity, comes up with a new plan and a program for next year and maybe in some segment and there's not enough space to follow all the recommendations. In that sense, I would really insist that it be found in that model and that you consider that certain segments of the recommendation are really sent to the end and that I will be concrete, I think, before the world, when it comes to introducing an internal control system and internal audits. You, President, in that part yourself said it was a very important segment. I talked about it more than once when the topic was DRI. We have a situation that in this report it is one of the biggest problems, and that is, first of all, one way to prevent the effects of any kind of abuse at the very beginning. It is obvious that the legal provision itself to some entities is not enough, which in any case would be necessary to meet that obligation. However, even those who have fulfilled this legal obligation, we see from your report, we have formal functioning of internal control, internal audits, not essential. I think that the DRI in collaboration with some other institutions can make a significant contribution to convince the subjects that it is in their interest to have essential functional internal control and internal audit, as it will thus warn many irregularities that they are not even aware of, but will raise the level of their finances from which they can draw the necessary information for their business. Of course, that would make it easier for you to review when you show up with them. I appreciate your attempts, the round tables you've organized. However, I expect that this year's further effort will be expressed by all together, especially you, that this report, which we will consider, hopefully, in 2014 in that domain, shows significant results. Therefore, I suggest that all recommendations to the audited entities that went on internal control, internal audits, be followed literally to the end and to the final recommendation. I feel the same way about public procurement and the list of assets, where some irregularities appear from year to year and are significantly expressed. The idea is to clear the recommendations. If it is not possible to send the scope of all recommendations, then to place a special accent on the recommendations, especially when it comes to these three things: internal control and audit, public procurement and the list of assets. I would like to say that the report also apostrophe of one of the perceived irregularities, the disagreement of certain laws, which led to individual entities having unwittingly made certain wrong procedures, application and not working in accordance with the law. I think that this way of reporting and this way of working that you've accentuated here is very good and that it's good feedback from the entities you've received from the audit, I mean the local self-government, which, due to the obsolescence of this law on salaries in the state bodies, the public services since 2001, as you said, don't generally apply. There's a lot of problems in that sense. This is very important information for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for you, which you are suggesting, and when it comes to the Law on the Budgetary System. I think that in this sense, co-operation between the DRI, the Finance Committee, the General Resolution Committee and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can be improved. When it comes to the establishment of public debt, I took advantage of the session and the debate on the Finance Committee, where the representatives of the Fiscal Council were present, they suggested that the methodology for the establishment of public debt must be harmonised. It may not be as current and important at the moment, because we are not at some level of 45% of GDP, as predicted by the law, and now these fines may not be relevant, but I expect that the government's public debt measures will significantly begin to fall and it will certainly become current. I don't think we should wait and spend unnecessary time harmonising that public debt methodology. I would really support you here to be persistent and insist on that solution, because it will make the position easier for you and for all of us. Of course, I also support your recommendations and suggestions to the audited entities, where in the course of control you solve certain problems and I think it's very important and that you certainly have identified a lot of possible irregularities that have not been done on purpose, and can be corrected, I can improve the system of work. When it comes to this debate, we have heard that certain public enterprises and certain irregularities are mentioned. I would like to say that the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" is just one of the revised public enterprises spoken of in the report. One regular audit was carried out, one regular check, the response meeting procedure, the recommendation procedure is under way. What I'm saying is that there is no need for any politicization, for some flat-rate evaluations, by giving some formal reasons to show for it some abuses or irregularities. The public company "Serbia" primarily, implementing the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy and a recommendation from the government of the Republic of Serbia, has in certain ways been involved in implementing thousands of jobs in Serbia. When it comes to Agroliv, it must be said that there are 1,300 jobs. The production of pasta, chicken meat, processing, food production is strategically important for this country and the chance of this country. If the public company "Srbigas" were to implement the government policy and at the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia two years ago with Agroziv, we would not be talking today about this number of jobs, about the importance of such an environment as the municipality of Zitiste, and we would also not be talking about the possibility that is very relevant now and at present because of the government of the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the public company "Srbigas" and "Agroziva", of introducing a strategic partner, i.e. the most successful producer in Europe in the domain of chicken meat production and processing. Is that bad? Of course not. We also have such an example when it comes to Paracino, where jobs and healthy business entities are saved, and now we are introducing a strategic partner and for those environments, where these business entities and these businesses are operating, which is certainly significant. I think that in this sense we need to be completely honest and that we need to talk about how important it is for these environments, for those jobs, for those people who work in these companies this move of the public enterprise "Srbigas" had. As for the revision of relevance and the introduction of a plan that the Sector for the Review of Purpose begins to work, we discussed this at the very beginning of the DRI work. They are all aware that this is a very important revision, but that it requires and a certain scope of preparation, that it is very complicated and that it takes time for it to live in the fullest sense. What the DRI is doing certainly has taken over the establishment of the sector, the preparation of personnel and people, but there are other institutions, of course, will have to be involved, and this review will have to depend on the government's policy and on the clear recommendations in that domain, which is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the government in the coming period, will also have to achieve in what way, in order for the DRI itself to see the spending of the funds to determine what kind of money was obtained, what kind of car was purchased, and what perhaps a proposal or way of buying another car meant that those funds were better spent and that the citizens, or the state of Serbia would benefit slightly more. I expect, as we have had in all of these segments, some progress, that this revision of relevance in the next period shows a permanent progress and development in this domain. In the end, I also mentioned a gray economy zone, and in Serbia it is unfortunately great in relation to highly developed countries, and even in relation to countries that are comparable to us. Both institutions, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI have outlined the need for co-operation and it is good that the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency has also provided certain information that has gone into co-operation with the Katra database, that it is also planned with some other institutions that there is this direct connection, because, in the case of the responsibility of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI, in that sense, it cannot have a full effect without certain cooperation, of course respecting both institutions' competences and areas which do not interfere with their independence and expertise. I do appeal, not only to these two institutions, but also to other bodies, and a certain burden is placed before the tax administration, that indeed in that domain everyone is aware that there is no effective fight against the gray economy, against corruption, against tax evasion, everything that really endangers this country, without the cooperation of all institutions. In that sense, I would like to make it clear that these two institutions and others in that domain will have absolute support for the SPS whenever necessary, and at this time, personally, as a representative of the parliamentary group, I am expressing my support both in future work and for this report that you have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19474	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19475	The Honorable Chairman, respected gentlemen of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, on the second day we discuss the report of independent regulatory bodies. Yesterday we had a debate late last night and it proved that political parties are looking towards the position and role of independent regulatory bodies, or independent agencies. At first, I would like to say that the DS will support both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2012. This is about two reports. The DRI report was created in 2012, but practically refers to 2011 because it is an observed period, or a controlled period, while at the Anti-Corruption Agency is a slightly different situation. How does the DS view state independent institutions that the state has formed to control other state bodies? It showed through the fact that, just in the mandate of the previous government, all these agencies and independent bodies were formed and started working. That's not where we ran the party's interests. If we had been guided by party interests, we would have acted as the current government and placed party people in the most responsible places, such as, say, the existing government with the NBS, not to order, but then I will look back on how the existing government looks at independent institutions. No, in these places, the National Assembly appointed the people we thought at that time would be responsible and professionally performing their function and who had not been favored by the DS since the first day, nor should they have been, because their first reports had to be made exactly according to the institutions that we ran. Some of us were surprised, were not comfortable when the reports said that some of our party colleagues had not done their job to the end in accordance with the regulations. That wasn't a problem for DS, because we grew up with these institutions. The institutions that started working, I wouldn't say from the ice, but it's kind of true. The state created assumptions, provided money for personnel, secured rooms and all other conditions. However, this new job was also for people who worked in these independent institutions. First of all, it was necessary to face the need to build up, to strengthen an independent institution, to grow awareness in people who work in them and those who observe their work, that it is good for the state if there are some institutions that control people placed in state bodies, bodies, public enterprises, who spend, or have public money. That wasn't easy. For this reason, these institutions deserve congratulations, deserve commendation, but primarily support to retain their independence in the coming period. It won't be easy at all, because I don't think the existing government looks kindly towards independent institutions. I mentioned the NBS, whose head was brought, practically, the political commissioner, or deputy political party. I will mention RTS, which from public service should become the voice of the government of Serbia, i.e. the political parties that lead it. It's done in a very clear way, by turning the taps first, and then taking over the influence. This also shows the attitude towards the judiciary, according to the prosecutions, and also yesterday's attitude towards the protector of equality that she experienced in this assembly, could be said, the unexpected tirada and we MPs felt very uncomfortable, the Citizens' Protector felt very uncomfortable. Some people here have tried to put their personal interests first and try to humiliate and thus scare those who work in independent institutions. It is not excluded that some of you who sit here or have already found themselves in such a situation. I'd like to hear, say, from the state auditor who resists the facts when they come to the door of a public firm, and they're locked up, not literally locked up, but prevented them from accessing the documentation they need to control or in any way disabling their control. How do they resist the fact that tabloids are used by their reports to turn them into political accounts, and their reports, the basis for political reckonings with political inexperiences, to take from these reports some parts that suit them, and thus disabling the results of entire teams that have dealt with very seriously with certain issues? When you get a story from a 500-page report in the tabloids like the story of Wet Mountain or similar topics, then the essence of the independence of state institutions dealing with this job, which the National Assembly established by law and which should be their protector, is seriously questioned. It is very difficult to build independent institutions in the system, i.e. a state that is not prone to respect for the Constitution, the law, the legal order. If you do not have a way of resisting these pressures, you will be floating on the political winds of current political establishments that have their own party interests and who want to satisfy personal and party interests. I'd like to say, for example, that at the Anti-Corruption Agency in the coming period, I see much more that she's committed herself to controlling the financing of political entities. I know this has been quite difficult so far and that you have had so much to do through the construction of the institution and the exercise of other functions, such as solving the incompatibility of public functions and conflicts of interest, controlling the property of public officials and all that is your obligation. But it would be very important to see that political entities, political parties, from the largest to the smallest political parties, finance their electoral activities and that the amount of billboards, television ads, media performances, it seems to me, does not correspond to what is in the political party documentation. As far as I know, the DS alone filed a full report on its incomes and expenditures. The Democratic Party has also had financial problems as a result. It was a long time in the blockade, because she was spending funds that were public. The other parties, by all accounts, have, in addition to what I do not, of course, prejudge control here, had more resources compared to what is shown as income. It would be very important to speak publicly of all the obstructions that independent institutions have with state institutions and political parties and to make it public in time, so that it is not too late and that political parties do not break independent institutions. That would be devastating for this country. A lot has been said today about the Public Procurement Act, the fact that it will bring savings to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It was one of the flossules we listened to when we passed that law. I have to look back on this untruth and the consequences that have taken place under this law. So it is not true that between 800m and a billion euros were saved in the Republic of Serbia's budget on public procurement. No money was saved. First of all, public procurement is not done. Most of the necessary public procurement is not done. This is why procurement and medicines and jobs are involved in education, culture, public works. So the procedure for public procurement is now at the stage that they have not either started or could not be completed. Well, we hear from some public officials these days that certain bidders are dropping complaints about the procedure because God will not end the procurement process and there will be none. You've passed a bad law. He had the only purpose of populism and it did not lead to greater transparency, he led to a disaster that was seen in the fact that public procurement was practically not implemented. It is very important that this current government, but not even any future government, does anything to interfere with the work of an independent institution. In that sense, the role of this Parliament is very important. Through a supervisory function, it must ensure independence for these institutions. Of course DS will insist on that. I'm afraid we're going to have a lot of temptations because it seems to me that the government is not sharing a position that would be clear when it comes to the independence of institutions formed under the Constitution and under the law. Regardless of all the announcements to fight corruption, it has not been stopped. All forms of crime are on the rise. That's what one of the representatives of the ruling parties said yesterday. Why? Because in places where we should be professionals, we bring in unprofessional people, and only tomorrow, only the next few months, will we see the consequences of participating public enterprises, only in some of the following reports will we be able to see how participation and bringing unprofessional personnel into those places has been reflected. I agree, and this is in the proposal of the Anti-Corruption Agency that a circle of persons subject to the Anti-Corruption Act should be expanded. Of course, individual assistant directors, individual management heads may have a more significant role and a greater possibility of corruption than some persons covered by the current law. Of course, I am not against the fact that some persons are excluded from the list of those who are subject to the Anti-Corruption Act, but in any case, I believe that a further analysis of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Anti-Corruption Agency, would be necessary to ensure that all those persons who can benefit from their public position and possibly work can benefit from some public function they use. In any case, the DS will support these reports and in the coming period we will try to be in the role of defence of the independence of the institutions. It will be the partners of all those who are in full compliance with the Constitution and the law, not in selective justice, who will be partners of all those who are not subject to daily policy and who do not read from the tabloids how they should act but do so on the basis of the Constitution and the law. In the coming period, new challenges will surely be put before this country when it comes to the application of European standards, but not because of Europe, but because of ourselves. Respect for the law is not a matter of the goodwill of a political option and of one or two people, taking up this or that function, cannot depend on the conduct of state authorities, prosecutors, courts of independent state institutions. It must be the basis, the Constitution and the law, not the will of individuals. In this regard, we will fight against political domination against institutions and any usurpation of government, and we support once again the independence of these institutions and we will vote in favour of the reports of these two independent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19476	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Right on the line for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really surprised that some of my colleagues can defend some of the actions. This is how, when it comes to the NBS "Agrobank" it was positive, according to the NBS report in November 2011. Otherwise, it was already lost by 360m euros. To cover it up, the NBS went into an ex post audit, and then Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and Finance Minister at the same time made a decision to recapitalise Agrobanka by broadcasting state securities of value, which is illegal. The governor rather than at this point initiates a case against the vice governor who was responsible for controlling the bank's operations, not only did he not initiate control but the vice governor did not lack hair from his head. So much for what your independent institutions were. When you mention the amount of billboards and money the political parties spent on the campaign, only a loan that is illegally contrary to decisions that existed and were valid for all, the DS allocated is greater than the total amount that the SNS spent in the election campaign. So don't talk about billboards, please. When it comes to the Public Procurement Act, don't tell the truth not to apply. Some of the DS have tried not to apply, but thanks to the law on the availability of information of public importance, we will determine how much the Apothecary Institute spent money on the same drug purchased by RFZZ. Don't be surprised that the Belgrade pharmacy paid for it twice as much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19478	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, who is entitled to the line for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19479	Thank you, Chairman. We paid our billboards from the credit accounts that we took under pretty unfavourable conditions and taking those loans wasn't illegal and we're paying back our loans. We didn't pay our billboards with cash. I'm not sure about your client paying for the billboards, apparently you had enough money and you had enough financials, some of you failed and cheated. As for Agrobank, whenever you don't have arguments, you reach out to Agrobank, and I said that DS doesn't have a role in Agrobank, that is, there's probably as much as some of your staff and your close parties. When it comes to yours and our governors, you said so, it's not our termology. We believe that neither your governors nor our governors should exist, but that there should be an independent National Bank and that the governor of the National Bank should not be deputy president of the SNS or any other party, but rather be an expert in the area that will not be vice president of the party today, and tomorrow freeze and be governor of the National Bank. It's a trend. I said that as an example. It's not Mrs Tabakovic's subject, it's your relationship with the independent institutions that we've been building, which you're putting down.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19480	National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19481	The subsequent mind is very interesting and I remember when Kori Udovici was governor of the National Bank, she was also minister in the government of Zoran Djindjic. Don't tell me it wasn't a party shot. As for the billboard, we couldn't pay them with cash, because the vast majority is owned by your party president, only if he was in cash, but it's his fault as much as we are. Don't do that, please. When it comes to independent regulatory bodies, you say we're hitting on them, and I'll remind you, the Guardian of citizens has been elected in a previous term and confirmed mandate and in this, has not been changed. Furthermore, the state auditor, also elected in the previous session, has been elected and in this, has not been replaced. As for the Anti-Corruption Agency, the director has been replaced, but replaced by the board of directors you set up. What do we do to affect independent regulatory bodies? Don't tell us about the judiciary and the prosecution anymore, because it's your mess that will follow you for a long, long time, how much you've endangered the independence of a branch of government, and not to say that you've even declared a dead candidate a judge, you've even done that. That's how successful your judicial reform was, and that's what the Venice Commission and the European Commission told you about, and you've moved on as you were. That you have nothing to do with Agrobank, as far as you're saying that the links to Agrobank have the same thing between you and us, Agrobank was a state bank. Her board of directors has appointed the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we do not want to talk about the godfather's ties between consultants and board members, along with then Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. You want to talk about it? We don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19482	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19483	Dear Mr. Arsic, the shame of the judiciary is something we're facing today. When you refuse to replace Mr. Cvian, when you bring in 600 and some judges with a SNS membership card and you bring them back to legal life, when you bring in a judge who's been sentenced to seven years in prison, and what you wouldn't do if such presidents were municipalities, what's wrong, what's the difference, just let them go yellow, that's what you're thinking, and that's the tragedy of this country. "Agrobank", it is true what you said, the government of the Republic of Serbia, state capital, control, etc. Look at the list of debtors, Mr. Arsic, I can bring you on paper, see the list of debtors of Agrobank. Fact number one, during our government, an investigation was launched in Agrobanka. If you don't believe me, ask Mr. Wolfie. The second thing, when you see a list of debtors, you bite your tongue, Mr. Arsic, and you won't find anyone in the DS, but you'll find your financiers, Mr. Stupar and the others. Why don't you tell the citizens? Why do you keep tying that bank to DS? That bank is completely tied to your party, if we're right, and to the SPS. Look at the list of debtors, I'll deliver it to you, be honest, so tell me if it's true or not. There's no point in throwing such charges so lightly. I don't think the citizens believe that anymore, because the situation in the judiciary is, unfortunately, terribly bad and still. We expected the good and quality changes you announced, but there are no, a network of courts, nothing, new laws on justice, said the minister in March, and they are not until this day. What are you talking about? So 600 and some judges with a SNS membership card, amnesty plus, therefore, is equal to a 50% increase in crimes in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19484	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19485	Gentlemen, the MPs, when you talk about criminal acts, are not on the rise of crime, but are on the rise in the number of crimes detected. That's obviously the problem you have. As for 600 members of the SNS who came from the judge's ranks, first of all, that's not true and let's get this straight right now. It is true that some judges who felt deposed, humiliated, that the state is not behind them, that the law is not respected and that they have lost their jobs, that they have joined the SNS. They also returned the membership cards when the Constitutional Court returned them to court. You can't blame these people for that. They felt disfellowshipped. The state worked past the rule of law. As for the debtor of Agrobank, I only know one Mr. Stupar, but he doesn't owe anything to the Agrobanks. Do you really think we're being funded by those people who didn't repay the loan "Agrobanks" that we should go into the investigation process when it comes to "Agrobank"? One more thing, unless adequate guarantees are provided for the state capital that came out of the same Agrobank, responsibility is not only borne by the one who took the loan, but by the much larger one who granted it in the past of the bank's law and business policy. How well you ran the banks, we also see on the Vojvodina Development Bank case, which, behold, has a loss of 160m euros, and yet again, the government of the Republic of Serbia had to recapitalise the "Development Bank" to create the AP Vojvodina Development Fund. So wherever you worked, citizens had to pay for the damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19486	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, for two minutes. I ask you to stick to the time prescribed by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19487	I did mention Mr. Cvian, but in the context, well, no context, I mentioned Mr. Cvian...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19488	I ask you MPs to either allow the chairman to hold a session or consult the Rules of Procedure if you have doubts about how the session is conducted. The right to the replica is the discretionary right of the chairman and the replicators, or the president of parliamentary groups or deputy presidents of parliamentary groups, and no one else, participates in this round of replicas. National MP, you're entitled to two minutes, so it'll take your exposure up to two minutes and 50 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19489	First, let's try to resolve this with Agrobank, Mr Dusan Stupar, "Universal Holding AD Belgrade" - a debt of 632 million 397 thousand 528 dinars; Dragoljub Vučićevic, a debt – a million 648 thousand etc.; Peđa Malisanović, Milan Antonić, Ljubomir Ćubić, Branimir Zeleac, and companies are impressive, you have "Asprom", "Velfarm", "Dunavka", "Gradište", "Vocar Dragačevo", "Habitfarm", "Agrar Trade", "Azohem", "Vulić and Vulić" and "Lutra". Just tell me where you read those charges you made here. I've answered you for this financier of yours, number one, Mr. Stupar, and you said there's nothing. How come there's nothing now? The second thing, I said about the judiciary that we all know, anyway, is that you boasted about it in the election campaign, I don't know if it's true, I wish it wasn't, because I think it's the twilight of the judiciary, if 600 judges in reform of the removed judiciary entered the SNS... (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Eight hundred. All right, never mind, 800. Did they put the membership cards back in the SNS or not, that's all I'm asking? If they are, then okay, they meet the legal requirements to do their job. But it is also a fact that we, as an opposition with full right, believe that with such a structure of people who are party-defined, declared, there is no judicial reform and that is the whole story. Everything else is eye-smoothing to the public, and charges for someone who was previously in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19490	Is anyone else answering for the replica? No, I don't. ) National MP Vladimir Cvian wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Cvian, from the scene: I picked up the line. ) People's MP, you don't have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19492	Article 104(1) The Rules of Procedure, which specifically states that I have the right to reply, if the other MP mentions me, and especially if he mentions... .
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19493	National MP, Article 104 cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the position on the right to the replica is clearly written to be decided by the chairman. My decision is you don't have the right to a replica. Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19494	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are first accusing my colleague Vladimir Cvian, and from all those official notes I received from the court and from the judge who wants to charge him, not a word of the proceedings was said by Vladimir Cvian. So, don't hang on to that story anymore. Also, all that you've read, when it comes to the debtors of Agrobank, I don't know these people. Also, as far as I'm aware, all those who haven't returned the loan will either have to return it or respond criminally. But one other question is raised -- how and how is Agrobank led, and how and how are loans in so many amounts approved without adequate protection for that bank? One who has state property must respect it and value it more than his own private property. Try to do it in a private bank, no way, there's no such thing as a possibility. But that's why they are, in my opinion very strange examples, that the debtors who took loans from SNS, come on, people, please, it has nothing to do with life. What would DS do? What would Mirko Cvetkovic do? What would your board of directors, Nikezic and the team do, CesMekon? You know how that story about Agrobank is gonna end. The only problem is that there are many such "Agrobanks" and that you have destroyed institutions that need to fight corruption and organised crime, it is now the biggest problem to bring these institutions back in the right way to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19495	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19496	The previous bickering of the two parties also says that there is a relatively small number in the Assembly, when discussing such important topics, that the financial part of the government's work and public authorities, however today in Serbia, is in another plan, and in the opinion of our parliamentary group, should be the subject of debate number one. That's how it's done in organized states, and that's how it's done all over the world. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of both reports, noting that we support the government on its European path and its fight against corruption and crime. At the same time, we did not support the financial part of the government's work and the State Auditor's Report, which gives us a full argument and justification for why we didn't do it, because public finances still have organized chaos. The state audit institution and the Anti-Corruption Agency are only in turn. These are institutions that have yet to win on their own account, especially because the legal provisions have not given them sufficient powers as do those institutions in the regulated countries. Secondly, what their recommendations and interventions did not receive below, let's say when criminal and criminal charges were filed, appropriate epilogues. Mr. Sretenovic, this debate where everyone says a lot of praise about your work, I'd like to join these praises, you're working in very difficult conditions, with few people, a lot to control. It reminds me of the departure, when Nikola Pasic once gave an inspired speech in the National Assembly, so his MPs applauded him and told him – you are our Watchstone, the famous English Parliamentarian. He answered that I am your Watchstone, just as you are English. This DRI has a significance in Serbia just as much as we English. In England, the finance minister daily reports to the state auditor on the spending of each euro, each and every least monetary unit, pounds. How's it going with us? The state auditor has a hard time getting the paperwork, there's obstructions, of course nowhere in the world is the state auditor's welcome applause and red carpet, because he comes to catch irregularities in the control of public funds, and it's perfectly normal to have an unfavorable personality at the beginning, but necessary. What do you need it for? It's precisely because if we really want to, legally, properly, save the money of all the citizens of our country, then we need someone who will keep an eye on that work. If in England some pound goes where it is not intended, the auditor intervenes immediately, and parliament has to pay such a cost of money to cover the relevant decisions. I'm saying, this is only in the beginning, it's infancy, and it's really with these conditions that a lot has been done, but it seems to us in public finances that there's no order in place, and it's impossible to expect it to establish external control, external control. I therefore support that initiative, which the DRI representatives said, is necessary, and so today, in all well-organised businesses, every good businessman is first looking for a strong, professional, objective, impartial, internal auditor who will daily warn him of incorrect or uncontrollable or unreasonable spending of funds. But DRI is not something that is only an institution that has come to life in EU countries or developed countries of the world. She's quite old, it seems to me today no one mentioned. Three and a half thousand years before our era in Mesopotamia, there was a kind of state auditor. State auditors, or public listening to accounts, also existed in ancient Rome. Some form of state audit also existed in the ancient civilizations of Persia, China, in the Jews. This is why these very civilizations and have had a very large development and have peaked in economic and monetary terms. The Italian merchants established this double accounting somewhere in the 13th century, and the English in investing the United States in the 19th century insisted that they have a strong internal auditor, who will control and analyse the spending of their investments, and never such an auditor can be expensive, because it is a much greater gain than anything the auditor adequately warns about. Here is the basic question whether we, the State Auditor and the Anti-Corruption Agency, have established it because it is a Brussels order, because it is necessary on the European path or because we felt that this was the essential need of the state? Unfortunately, it seems to us that we have done so to meet this formal condition in Brussels and that both Brussels and ourselves would be greatly clouded. That the country's worst employer has always been after World War II in our country shows reports of a state auditor in which, according to that people's language, the state truly sees itself as a man's cow. The biggest losers are EPS, JAT, Railways, Telecom, etc. The biggest irregularities are found here, "Serbigas" and what I know. It is billions of euros that these public enterprises have created as well-known losers, but at the same time it does not prevent them from being large sponsors of major events, concerts, sports competitions, etc., which is absolutely inappropriate. That's why the real question is do we want to have a state of clean billing or do we just want to blur our eyes and Brussels and us? For general and common needs, Serbia spends at least half of its national cake. In the world, absolutely, as far as all of this is concerned, in the opposite and positive sense, the rules of the game are respected. When I mentioned England, I forgot to say that everyone can be in public office and leave, but the state auditor is elected for life. The State Auditor remains there as the continuity of good control of public spending, the money of all taxpayers, and it is, as a rule, the last dam, the last defence of taxpayers against abuse, illegal spending of money from the budget, etc. Secondly, the auditor not only controls whether certain money has been spent properly, but also whether the item on which the money has been spent is real. You can give money for certain purposes, and pay, of course, an inappropriate amount, so there is also a state auditor responsible to intervene. We've recently begun to control the financing of political parties. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia are probably the only ones on Serbia's political scene that did not have their tycoon financiers, namely neither the media nor the campaign money, etc. This has greatly affected, along with all other factors, the ratings of our political parties, but in a world that hides a financial report from the campaign or shows a false report ending in prison, and as a rule, it has huge political consequences and cannot rate such a party after such an affair has grown. In addition to what the public thinks that the state auditor controls only the budget spending, the auditor controls indirect users of the budgets, funds of mandatory social and pension insurance, where there are again major irregularities, the National Bank and we seem to have this part around the banks, and we have said that many times in the National Assembly, perhaps the most ordered part of the system after 5 October and there appear to be even the slightest irregularities. Then, public enterprises, political parties, donation users and international aid. When the debate was held on the need to introduce a state auditor with, of course, absolute respect and support in the work of Mr. Sretenovic and his team, many thought it should be a stranger, and we were jokingly talking about it being a German or Englishman. For what? Because he'll be objective, he'll be professional, he'll have no godfather's, no school, no cousin's, no party's, and I don't know what relationships and interests, he'd be paid well, and he'd be doing his job objectively, but since he really did a lot of it with his team, here, you're acting like a good Englishman in the best sense of that word. What remains in Serbia, and in the world is somehow the political issue number one, where the money has gone from the budget, which is why it is being spent unwisely. We've pointed to excessive consumption here many times at every turn. You don't have today, in the era of the global economic crisis, and developed and decorated countries have acted like this before the crisis, and in the crisis, an extra tight belt, an example like us, no meat community, no municipalities, no city that doesn't have its fame, glory, banquets, cocktails, lunches business, etc., as if there's a total idyll with us. Cars. Well, Sweden was about ten years ago, it seems to me to be 60 and some official cars, which is now, for example, if we had two or three ministries available 63 official cars, they would feel absolutely humiliated. It's got to be Audi, it's got to be darkened glass, it's got to be a driver, it's got to be a secretary, and it's got to be everything, because we're a minor, we're Japan and Germany. We do, so we can. We pointed not only to those big things, one general wastefulness at every step, and on the other hand we have one unsatisfactory economic position of most Serbian citizens, but I say of these trivialities, we have also pointed to this government and several times when discussions were on both the budget and budget rebalancing, etc., but simply that mentality that you should fight for a political position and function in order to defile the cost of the state is still present. Here is how years go by and the importance of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the importance of the DRI are greater, but in any case still not large enough to fully justify the purpose and purpose of existence in the way it was done in the most developed countries of the world. What the state auditor predicted in the work plan from 2011 to 2015 for our parliamentary group is absolutely acceptable. We also support a series of recommendations made by the state auditor. Of course, we also support the filing of criminal and criminal charges, but I would agree with the evaluation of colleagues who spoke before me, that it is truly inappropriate for someone to spend illegal billions of dinars and get criminal charges without criminal punishment. I don't know, I've been trying to get that information, if anyone from some department, a major state-owned company, has received a criminal record, I haven't found that information. If you do, it would be very interesting for me and the public to know. What you've indicated is that citizens are good allies. Yes, they're still dissatisfied. It is inappropriate and inappropriate that in conditions where we have so many unemployed when there are so little pensions and average earnings, etc., we look at the political elite that lives minors as if we're in Emirates or Kuwait. The State Auditing Institution report itself has nothing to object to, but it seems to us that it is in good interest to discuss our parliamentary group in this sense that both the ruling majority and any future ruling majority will pay more attention to these reports and to the well-intentioned warnings of us from the opposition, so that we can simply see the next report as some improvement in the situation compared to what we had today. Anyway, since this is, I think the sixth report we see progress year by year, but it's not satisfactory anyway, and it hasn't caused any positive earthquakes in the control of public finances spending. Nor did those who were foolishly spending public finances suffer any excessive punishment. That's why we're going like that soldier, they're going to rip each other apart, and we're not giving them, here's how we want to have a state auditor, and they're not giving us etc. It is clear that it is the mental heritage of life in someone else's account, life at the expense of the state, that it is generally present at all levels and that it is very difficult to change. As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned, one law has been passed, so there have been amendments and additions, etc., and it is certainly of great importance to the Agency's work. If we look at the fact that you've never had to ask a clerk before, or where he's from, or about a conflict of interest, or about performing more functions not to talk about it, etc. However, because of the narrow legal frameworks in which it works and because of the lack of sufficient mechanisms, the agency itself has found a quiet fire because of the different interpretations of the Anti-Corruption Act. We understand all the problems the agency faces in its work. On the other hand, DRI needs a lot of control. For this reason, as a parliamentary group, we will vote for both one and another report, with our absolute acceptance of those recommendations made by the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency that they will propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption. However, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act is not sufficiently large and clear enough to leave room for different interpretations and it is not the fault of those who apply the law, but is primarily a ball in the courtyard of the National Assembly. It seems to us that, as after 5 October, we have constantly warned all governments that it is good that we are on the European path, but let us be European inside. I think that message should be sent to this government as well. It is good that this government has the desire to introduce Serbia into a country of order, but first of all it is not Brussels's job to edit everything I'm talking about. It's a job for all of us to really be within the European state. If we become inside the European country, we will easily become a member of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19497	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) The word is Mr. Radoslav Sretenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19498	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the parliamentary groups and MPs for their constructive discussion, for the suggestions and remarks that we have received, but I would also like to answer some of the questions that have been asked. When it comes to the application of the Public Procurement Act, the DRI, through its reports that has been transparently published on the DRI site, revealed irregularities in the application of the Public Procurement Act. So in the 2010 Budget Report, whose report was published in 2011, we found irregularities in public procurement of over 84 billion dinars, or over 800m euros. Also in 2012, DRI identified irregularities worth over 47 billion dinars. When it comes to public procurement, we have found that the final contracts are without public procurement procedures. We found out there wasn't a public procurement plan. The most dramatic example is not to conduct public procurement procedures at pharmacy and pharmacy institutions in the context of health homes. In accordance with the competences of the DRI, in the process of carrying out an audit, it is authorised to submit appropriate requests for the initiation of a criminal offence, to initiate a request for commercial offences, and if it finds that there are doubts about the execution of criminal offences, to file criminal charges. During 2012, 253 applications were submitted to the National Assembly for all reports published by DRI. Of this, 216 is a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure, 28 is for business crime and nine criminal charges. I can say that based on the information we've come up with and based on the data we've been having, all DRI applications have been processed. To this day we have received and have information that out of the total number of applications submitted for the period since the institution works, that is 389 requests submitted for the initiation of the infringement procedure, 33 cases have been resolved so far, of which 31 convictions and two acquittals have been resolved. For acquittal, the DRI filed appropriate complaints before the competent courts. One is in connection with the first-degree court and the DRI's request to be reconsidered has been accepted. When it comes to the revision of public enterprises, it was about JAT Airways, "The Ways of Serbia". I can say that these reports are not the subject of this report today, but whatever it is, I'm going to say that when it comes to JAT Airways, illegality about payment traffic has been established. It is about the payment of the market and the DRI has submitted appropriate information to the competent state authorities for further verification, because we are unable to conduct a full investigation. You know the whole epilogue has been arrested by the cashier of this company. In addition, we have made sure that the long-term credit covered by the state guarantee was purposely spent on the purchase of the fleet. There have been reports against these responsible persons. When it comes to JP "Serbian Roads", we have been reviewing financial reports for 2010, and we have also established certain illegalities in the accounting and payment of VAT. That is what we have notified the competent tax administration of the Republic of Serbia and we have resigned the subject of further jurisdiction. As for "Srbigas", irregularities were also found and released in the report on the DRI site, because of the non-compliance with certain provisions of the Law on Public Procurement and the Foreign Exchange Act, two infringements have been filed against the responsible persons, against the director of this public enterprise, and also against four responsible persons have been initiated and applications have been filed for commercial offences under the Accounting Act, as well as the Payment Regulation. There was also a question asked by MPs, Mr Lapčević, what is the outcome of these reports? I can express my opinion that, although prosecuted, the trial before the competent courts is going on for a very long time. As you have seen so far, we have only received 33 resolved and judicial convictions since 462 applied. I don't want to criticise the judiciary right now, but believe me, I'm getting an acquittal these days, or abandonment of further criminal proceedings for the reason that there's been a general obsolescence in the conduct of proceedings. First of all, it's public enterprises. In this respect, the DRI proposed, through amendments to the Law on Public Procurement and the adoption of a new law, that the infringement procedure lasts for a period of at least three years. Then, we have also launched that for certain public procurements the amount of which exceeds 10 million will be treated in further proceedings as a criminal offence, which is also in the Criminal Law of Serbia and defined in Article 234. When it comes to reviewing political parties, I must stress that under the DRI Act in the jurisdiction of the institution there are over 9,325 beneficiaries of the budget, that it is one of the entities and political parties. However, the DRI and the DRI Council, when they estimate that there are reasons to review political parties, when they estimate that they have certain capacities, will report such audits. To note, in the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, the political party is obliged to deliver to the Anti-Corruption Financial Report Agency, along with a report by the authorised auditor on these reports. The proposal adopted by the government states in the Anti-Corruption Strategy that the DRI is also reviewing political parties. The institution through development and tweening project when considering amendments to the DRI Act will take that into account because the law defines that five areas must be revised each year. It is the final account of the RS budget, the National Bank of Serbia, the Organisation of Mandatory Social Insurance, a number of public enterprises and a number of local self-governments. It was a question of when the DRI would launch a revision of the Pension-Invalid Fund or PIO. I can say that the revision was initiated in early February, that it is still going on, that at this point I can't report any results on that revision since the law obliges me not to provide data on the audited entity while the audit process is ongoing. I would like to stress that the DRI is making every effort to increase the responsibility of all public sector participants. First of all, those executives who have the role of commanding officer for financial resources. In this regard, we want to strengthen internal control and internal audit, the financial management system above all. For these reasons, we held a recent conference to point out to ministers, mayors, directors of public enterprises and to all those who decide on budget funds, businesses on the importance of the existence of internal audit and internal control. We formed a task force with the Central Harmonization Unit to strengthen the role itself as the first misery in the fight against corruption. Of course, the transparency of the report delivered by the DRI to the Assembly and published on the DRI site makes one activity to reduce corruption itself. There were questions – how the DRI can resist when it practically comes to a locked door. I have to say that in the past five years, we have had extremely good co-operation with the audit entities, except for some exceptions that have occurred, but the DRI has its own mechanisms, or it can immediately file requests to disable and deny data. That's what we did by calling and talking to the director of the company. There have been some small obstructions by several beneficiaries of the budget, but we have overcome this to mutual satisfaction and made such reports. It is especially a question of when we are being delivered confidential documents, when it comes to confidential procurement, when it comes to state secret or top secret documents. We've had problems, but the DRI has been given the authority to review those documents, make sure that all transactions that are related to such documents are correct and that, of course, it keeps a secret the way it's revealed. When it comes to the fact that we resist tabloid information, of course our reports are completely transparent. Every citizen can read them. Maybe the media resort to one part of the exclusive from our reports, just a segment, but certainly the media is a powerful means and transparent reporting by the media makes activities to reduce corruption. In that sense, the DRI had certain round tables with journalists, with media representatives to best inform the public about our reports. We had certain working and round tables with representatives of the judicial authorities how to make our applications successful, so that the process would not be delayed in solving and processing our applications. When it comes to the implementation of recommendations, the DRI shall, after the final report has been delivered, give the audited entities a period of 45 to 90 days to remove any irregularities we have detected during the audit. Within a certain period, the audited entities shall submit response reports informing us that they have acted on certain recommendations and that 777 recommendations will be seen as some reports are still being analysed. I can point out that according to the law the DRI issued a conclusion on the revision of a response report. It's about the House of Health at the pharmacy in gurri, we'll run a background check on the response report. Therefore, the DRI has every possibility that, if the beneficiary of the budgets to whom recommendations have been made or does not remove certain irregularities, it shall take appropriate measures to submit requests to the competent authorities, or to the competent assembly, to local authorities at the republican level for the replacement of those persons who do not comply with the recommendations of the DRI. That was exactly the topic at the Committee's last session when we came to the conclusion that by the end of September we would be delivering response reports and recommendations from the response reports. That's what we're going to do, and we're going to get to know that and the Serbian Parliament. That's exactly what I wanted to point out. Of course, the DRI is not only here to write applications and submit applications, but we also have a certain role, an advisory role, to help beneficiaries of budgets in preparing certain business decisions, not to endanger our independence. Also, when we have assessed that in certain situations the acts adopted, the laws adopted have a negative fact, are not in line with other regulations, we have launched an initiative or made recommendations to the beneficiaries of the budgets where the audit was carried out to initiate the initiative to amend certain legal rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19499	The word is from Mrs Tatjana Babic, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19500	Given that several MPs mentioned the Agency's activities in controlling the financing of political entities, I would like to remind myself that on 31 May this year the Agency presented the first report on the control of the financing of the previous election campaign. What is important, to point out, is that this report does not end the control of the financing of the previous election campaign, but through the control of regular annual financial reports by political entities will re-control the costs that political entities had in last year's elections. That's what it's all about. Otherwise, strengthening the control of the financing of political activities is one of the priorities of the Agency this year, strengthening capacity and self-services and mechanisms for control. When it comes to the Agency's recommendations that rely on our initiative to amend and supplement the law, or vice versa, this initiative is based on recommendations, I am pleased that all parliamentary groups supported the recommendations that the Agency makes and I can say that I hope that the National Assembly, as a supervisory authority, will have one proactive position in relation to the Government, precisely when it comes to our law-amending initiatives. Finally, when it comes to reporting assets by officials, the question was asked – why does the Agency ask the officials to report data, which is otherwise publicly available? The Agency's law says the official is obliged to report his assets and revenues and does not make an exception to the data that are otherwise publicly available. So it's simply a legal obligation and the Agency only applies the law. The Agency is not authorised to make exceptions which are not provided for by law. On the other hand, experience shows that in some cases officials even data publicly available do not report or falsely show. Therefore, it is very important that this legal obligation for each official remains, so that the Agency can effectively control the property, because not reporting data, and even if they are publicly available, can be an indicator of the setting up of one of the crimes. Well, that's how much I wanted to answer you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19501	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Babic, Mr Sretenovic and the members of your teams, ladies and gentlemen, these are all new experiences, some based on years of practice, some based on new practices, and we're going to have to remind ourselves a little bit of the creation of your institutions, I hope you know that. Maybe just some of your employees don't know that, but you'll do your best in the next period, I guess, if they do, they'll find out. In the meantime, since one and the other reports, and criminally considered, are presented to the public through this session of the National Assembly, it is very important to point to a partnership, not only a legal obligation that exists between the National Assembly and agencies, regulatory bodies, those bodies formed in the meantime to protect either public interest, or citizens' rights, or specific rights and specific infringements, and that they have at their disposal, and it is extremely important that citizens know, very limited capacities and material and human resources, but what is also important, experienced in the correlation with other public life factors. Why am I saying this? Because that kind of self-criticism that begins, and even so today is presented, above all, the Agency's Report, very correctly finding part of the problems that existed in the work and suggestions so that they can overcome in the future, also refers to this people's congregation. I have to say, openly, in support, because this is the second day in a row, and the third day in which we face a specific kind of problem. On the one hand, we have what he is like, not getting into how he was adopted, as proposed, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He's the only one we can work on. On the other hand, a whole series of legal obligations stemming from laws that have been passed in the meantime, or from practices that have been established in the meantime, but what is more important to society as a whole, I really can't say that – position, opposition, I've seen that change both individually and partyly, is the need to identify, define and clearly define and define the activities and responsibilities of various independent bodies, agencies and control bodies and regulatory bodies. As a result, there was also the need for representatives of those reports to be submitted to the Assembly, and now they are considering according to the law at the session, to have the right to receive a word. This is possible for the Rules of Procedure, and that is why it is envisaged, that someone should not abuse the quorum or the lack of quorum, anything that exists during the regular session. This is defined by Article 119, which deals with a special session, as discussed in it, which is the only place that allows for the Rules of Procedure, and can be attended by representatives of bodies who submit, in accordance with the law, reports at a special session of the Assembly. Then there wouldn't be a formal-legal problem, but you can see that all MPs yesterday and today don't put it as a problem in terms of asking to respect exactly what it says during the session, where it can speak either the number of persons, or the pronouncing act. To understand, I am helping all of us to understand, the act the Assembly is about to adopt, so the only act that has the promoter is the conclusion. This is the conclusion of a committee in which, in the cases of your two institutions, it is clearly proposed that the report, as an integral part of the conclusion, be adopted and an additional set of obligations related to other bodies, be made to the National Assembly itself. So one point of the conclusion has been drawn, and the only person who is proposing this act is the chairman of the board, in particular the President of the National Assembly. It's very important that in the future, now that we've been through this cycle, we don't make this kind of formal error, because then we're going to avoid what happened the day before. Although, there is a clear need to hear the Guardians of the Citizens and the Two Trustees, the Commissioner and the Trustee as soon as possible. No members related to a special session have been applied, and in that case there is no working quorum for the start of work, etc., and there would be no reference between MPs - who gave the quorum, who is not, who is a traitor, who respects public interest, who deals with politics etc. But more importantly, you wouldn't be put into a situation, not even you today, not yesterday when it was a very unpleasant situation when it comes to trustees and the Citizens' Protector, you might find yourself in the same situation in the coming hours, being constantly called to engage in a political debate, although the Assembly accepts the report and asks and the committees also draws conclusions to confirm your neutrality and independence. So, one completely absurd situation. Why am I saying all this? First as a plea for understanding, for many of you are first found, some not, whatever is called, in front of the National Assembly. Secondly, to be aware of the people's MPs that sometimes we have to do, it doesn't matter how this slip happened, I mean well-intentioned, to schedule a regular session for an extraordinary session at 141 MPs' request, although only one signature is sufficient for the adoption of these reports, and therefore there is that obligation that is entered into in the law, which is that within so many and so many days at the next session we have to consider the report. Why? Because there are no grounds for real life that exist in each Assembly, and as far as elections, cycles, vacations, the unpreparedness of political groups to support something, to give their signatures, etc. So all of this is eliminated and there is no way of obstructing, so that the reports of these bodies and organs are clearly heard. That's terribly important. In the next period we're going to remove this, and in the meantime you have this well-meaning, but let's do it the other way around. Mr. Sretenovic, I have great pleasure, and we also talked about it during your election and we realized that there is a practice that is necessary for the degree of our society. It is a practice that DRI’s actions respect the order of steps that includes a type of collateral education of those over whom control is carried out. Secondly, to clearly separate what is seen in the procedure, as formal offences, disregard for a certain rule of law or sublaw, from what is causing consequences and damage. Because, as you know, the worst thing that can happen to your institutions is to create a fake image that you are so powerful that you can replace a whole series of state authorities, and then it's said – what isn't the auditor looking at all of them? It really sounds like that to a citizen, not knowing how many people do it, what that procedure means and during what time period. Secondly, they can say - why aren't the auditors punishing them? The auditor only initiates the procedure when another independent and it is very important that we now slowly find ways to share feedback so that it is clear to everyone because the auditor cannot arrange the judiciary. In this regard, it is an institution which, slowly from year to year, is growing in size, but it accurately announces, performs and reports on procedures, and you will still not avoid questions, you have had them today and you will have them, which will read – why you did not or whether you knew etc. It's politics. Here we should worry first about laws, but also about representing different political options. That's why MPs have immunity, and they don't even have to know the Rules of Procedure at all. Why? Because they are the Messengers of the people. They don't even need citizens to understand. Now we meet a lady in a park who says, "Why do the messengers decide to sit in the hall like that?" I say, "I'm sorry, when you go into the factory and you're welcomed in front of all the workers, do you know what that means?" That means the factory doesn't work. As soon as you see all MPs sitting and not voting day, that means they're not doing anything else right now, and there's a whole series of things. Those interested in direct participation and monitoring of the discussion participate in both sitting and attending. It can also be done via Internet television, whether there is a transmission or not. So it's a complex mechanism that we don't burden you with, but you certainly expect us to clearly and loudly confirm a report that is also just the top of the huge amount of jobs you do. Of course, I should not say that the URS will certainly vote in favour of both reports, i.e. both conclusions that involve these reports. Let me tell you, you don't all have to sit down, just so you know. You don't have to sit around all the time with your associates, either. When the ministers arrive, they are welcomed by protocol. You have the same rights. You are invited as guests and participants to attend this session, and know that for the use of all activities in the House of the National Assembly you are at the service of the Protocol. That's why you don't need either vice president, or president, or parliamentary groups, professional people are here as soon as you leave the O.R. in front of you to contact them for any kind of service, so that someone doesn't think you're sitting here working. No, you respect your own reports and respect the National Assembly that has chosen you, but know that you are not slaves to those places. Secondly, if one of you, past the water he has in front of him, which is a protocol part, wants coffee or something, the secretary is behind you, he knows that he's calling the service button to deliver it to you. Why am I getting into these details? Because according to the Anti-Corruption Agency report, the Agency is in a much worse position, as well as in the DRI case, where I participated in the creation, formation and in, since the government was unprepared, finding different ways to reach the law at all and form an institution. In the case of the Agency, it was even more complicated, as you know. First I had to participate in writing a Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, the law on this, and then prepare, form a special body, etc. On the other hand, the report, I am talking about the work signed by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Stoiljkovic, and you, Mrs Babic, initially paraphrased him, also found a part of the problem. Now please, and I will choose very carefully the words, very carefully, because it is personal to me, and certainly to the United Regions of Serbia, and I hope that every responsible MP is extremely important that the activities of the Anti-Corruption Agency become undeniable, so that there is no shadow as the institution is being built. I say builds in relation to what the report says. In addition to being able to provide statistics, I'm only talking about the assessment of the problems the agency has seen. Some concern problems within the agency, some concerning external reasons, some concerning legal provisions, not only of this law. I have to tell you, unfortunately, as a serious man, I keep memos. There are letters in which employees do not know who is elected, who is appointed, who is appointed. I don't want to tell you what kind of responsibility that is. There's false data, probably not on purpose, in calls to make a statement. No one has to plead, as you know, there are higher laws, for false charges, and can file a criminal charges for false reporting, if there is an inadequate invitation to some members. There is a lack of understanding of a whole series of processes behind which hundreds of documents are behind without being consulted before it comes to any interest. The position of all of you must be stronger in the next period, with great experience, but also with proven integrity. I'm probably the only culture minister whose company failed while he was a culture minister, the only public authority official and housing resolution obligations that continued to live in a 32-square basement. Do you know why? To help, because it's the only capital I have, the establishment of such institutions, that they can really undisputedly initiate procedures, make decisions and gain authority. But you won't be able to do it alone. A conclusion that this Assembly will certainly vote - it will allow additional preconditions to be created for more efficient and better work of the agency. They'll make it happen. I'm also asking for your understanding. Part of the proposal was deleted in the meantime. I'm asking you for an understanding to pay attention to why this was done. I speak like this on purpose. Once again, I don't want to cast a shadow on the role independent institutions must play. It's very important that we all show each other this kind of partnership, for every kind of ambiguity I stand at your disposal, but this is a public session, so I don't want anything to be misread because everything here is being interpreted politically. Therefore, you must be made available as partners, above all, by the committees of the National Assembly, not only the committee responsible, but also by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, a whole series of groups and professional services of the Assembly that will help, so that you do not find yourself in any kind of dispute situation. Since I've only got a few seconds left in this period, I'm just gonna say what I'm surprised about. Once again, I am infinitely pleasantly surprised by the tone in which the report begins. I also expected to see that sentence that said something would be done about what should not be done, which is that in public there are incorrect answers to the question that someone referred to you as an agency, and that 20 days later he gets a completely different answer. It's just amazing, I'm talking about a period of two years, how those answers appeared before they were found on the site, where they came from. (President: Time.) ) It is something that can worry the Agency, as it can worry the DRI, as it can concern the protection of citizens. Whenever an unauthorized person appears to interpret that some independent institution will bring any act to the cause and thus open a shadow that falls upon your institutions, I ask you to take care of it. (President: Thank you, Mr. Markovic.) Before I finish, Mr. Vice President, we'll have plenty of time and more later, and there's no reason in this part. Once again, I want to thank you for the way the reports have been submitted and to tell you that all the serious MPs are available to you for any kind of help in establishing full autonomy and independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19503	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and my own guests who come from the service of the Brazilian Parliament, who are currently following a part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. I ask one more time, does one of the authorized representatives want a word? No, I don't. We are going to order the registered MPs. The first on the list is the People's MP, Mrs. Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19504	Thank you, Chairman. Dear DRI representatives, representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, MPs, the LDP will support both reports by both independent bodies. We believe that your work is of great importance to all citizens of this country because the previous government, and this government, has continued to practice not to control the spending of public finances and public funds. We think it's why we have such a big public debt, so many unemployed persons, so much deficit. The only thing is that independent bodies exercise control over the spending of public funds. In the report itself, Mr. Sretenovic, who you submitted and in what you said, you said that eight recommendations to the day you wrote were not implemented. I'd like you to answer my question, what are the recommendations you've made that haven't been implemented to this day? The report says that the basic problems you have faced and in fact where poor spending of funds has been carried out are the non-application of the Public Procurement Act in accordance with the law. It further states that many institutions do not have listed assets and liabilities. The question arises – what kind of state do we live in, if in the ministries, in local self-government, in public enterprises we don't have a basic thing, and that's a list of assets? You replied in your response to LDP MP Bojan Djuric that he was right when he said that the biggest public enterprises whose directors appointed the Government of the Republic of Serbia were not in accordance with the law, which is JAT, where you said there were problems with the payment of the market, "The Ways of Serbia" and that what he said was true, that they did not pay VAT, all the problems that exist in "Serbia". This is certainly the same situation in the "Serb Railways" and "Telecom". It is absolutely unacceptable for the previous government and the government to continue to practice party appointments of directors, that the government today does not respect the law passed by this parliament at the end of last December, which means that competitions are being discussed by the end of this month for the election of directors of public enterprises. For what reason do I say that? For the reasons that the country's largest subsidies are the very public enterprises, which are: JAT, "Serbiagas", "Serbigas", "The Railways", and in doing so, the same companies, contrary to the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on the Budget System and other laws defining financial operations, are spending state money. Mr. Sretenovic, I want to ask you one question, given that DRI did not control a large company that is in restructuring, and we, as LDP here three years ago, have been telling you that there are major problems there, that is the mining gunnery base Bor, a company in restructuring. The parliament, the previous parliament, provides RTB guarantees worth several hundredm euros. Many times we spoke in parliament and asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia, both the previous and the present, to exercise control over the operation of RTB Bor, since the state gave subsidies, given that the state gave great guarantees and given the fact that the RTB Bor had no chairman of the board of directors for years and that the government of the Republic of Serbia had not appointed a new one. Neither the previous nor this government was absolutely interested in what was going on with the money she gave as a guarantee of RTB Bor. What am I saying that for? Because these are not worth several million dinars, these are amounts measured hundreds of millions of euros. For example, the fact is that this year the government approved new responsibilities for RTB Bor of 132m euros for the reconstruction of the melting plant and the construction of a new sulphuric acid factory. A year before that, she approved 135m euros at Canada's EDC bank for the same solvent plant and the same sulphuric acid factory. To this day at RTB Bor, except for the stone foundation, she didn't start building a smelt. In doing so, RTB Deputy Director-General Bor, and here MP and Finance Director Milinko Zivkovic, SNS MP, says about 40m euros in new borrowing will be set aside for new projects by the Canadian company SNC Lavalen, which is building a new smelter. How did the Canadian company Lavalen get a job in Bora in the first place? Who pays the company when the works aren't done at all? So, no public procurement procedures have been conducted there, and there is talk of an investment worth 300m euros. How is it possible, now it is also the issue of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that someone should be the director of RTB Bor for investments, at the same time as the MP, where the Assembly approves such guarantees and loans? Is it a conflict of interest or not? How is it possible that such a large company RTB Bor, for which the state has provided guarantees, would charge everyone an advance copper, except Farmacoma, and on what basis could Farmacom have taken copper from RTB in the amount of 800 million without giving an advance? What privilege does "Parmacom" have over others who buy copper from RTB? Also, how is it possible for RTB Bor who does not pay taxes and contribute to its workers of nearly two billion dinars at the same time to be a donor to the Bor municipality? So they agree to close certain contracts with the Bor municipality, and then the works are done, even in the zoo, circular flows, amphitheater, green boulevard, all without a building permit. One part of these works was carried out in the 2010 campaign ahead of the local elections in Bor, the other part now. How is it possible for the Bor municipality to retroactively implement public procurement for the reconstruction of the road Selište-Bor 20 km, for works carried out in 2012? In view of the fact that there is a framework for the construction of the Bor Municipality and the RTB Municipality, which keeps appearing as a donor, business and municipality control for 2010, 2011 and 2012 and RTB Bor for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Because if you're looking for state aid, you don't pay taxes and contributions, where the municipality loses money, constantly state, i.e. The National Assembly guarantees these loans, the works are not done, and you're a donor to works that don't have a building permit, that's not right. In this same way, the works at the Hotel "The Lake", we have a home in the Brestovac Banja, owned by RTB, were built and started to build a nursing home, without any consent from the ministry, and all the funds of the municipality and RTB without building permits. The question arises whether the Fund for the Development of the Republic, which gave these funds, as well as this state, this Assembly that approved guarantees, who, and why does no one but LDP care where that money went? All the citizens of Bora know that very well. I say again, it's not about millions of dinars, it's hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. Now that these debts of RTB, relating to taxes and contributions, have been written off, who will compensate for the damage to the Bor municipality? I understand that the previous government did not want to control the business of RTB Bor because it is the CEO of RTB Bor, and today, Blagoje Spaskovski, is a member of the URS. Since last week, since the election in Zajecar, he has suddenly become a member of the SNS. However, he says -- Serbian people's parties, since he doesn't even know what it's called, the political party he belongs to today. The authorities in Bor were URS and SPS by yesterday, and today they fled from the URS to SNS and SPS. There's absolutely no such thing as the Bor Municipality, RTB Bor and the illegal spending of public funds from the Republic, the Development Fund and the RTB itself. I don't want to talk about scraps and machines that were illegally bought, and all the way past the Public Procurement Act, past any tenders. Please, since the government of the Republic of Serbia is absolutely not interested, and we claim that RTB Bor is burning the case, rather than Kolubara, to examine the business and the Bor Municipality and RTB Bora. For us, too, it is unacceptable and a fact related to the Anti-Corruption Agency that the Agency has imposed certain measures without anyone following these measures. As far as I know, one of those measures you had was that the assistant minister of traffic couldn't be in any of the other functions. The fact is that it is in conflict of interest and Minister Zarko Obradovic, who has been celebrated in some way by these tests for the graduation but also by the fact that he teaches at Megatrend University. Is it a conflict of interest to be a minister, teach at Megatrend, at the same time from the Republic budget, from the education ministry's budget to transfer strong money to Megatrend University, while for 15 colleges that have applied for registration and accreditation, five years do not give any answer, prevent other colleges from getting accreditation or registering where the demands stand in drawers, I believe that this is a conflict of interest. To be a minister, to teach at the university, to transfer money from the state budget and to ban other colleges, in fact to prevent them from registering by keeping their items in a drawer. We believe that there is a need to increase the number of people working in both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, that additional space should be provided, because it is clear that Serbia is the country in which we live, a country in which a strict control of spending and public finances will be required for the next five or ten years, as well as a strict control of the application of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, especially because you stated in the report that a number of institutions have not even reported to you how many new officials there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19505	I have one finding. I ask the MPs not to describe the situation in their local environments because it is a special issue. I understand your request to perform a business review, but you've been describing the whole situation, which I think is practically out of the question, but well, I've tolerated you. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, DRI, I was truly convinced that after a session on the tax laws, there would be a point in calling the session one day ahead, but it is obvious that such a way of working has become the manipulation of the ruling majority, and it seems to me that it is a little bit further away from some organized society in which institutions function freely and make their decisions in quality. If of course I'm not mistaken, this is the second time we've discussed reports of independent state authorities and regulatory bodies, although independent authorities, regulatory bodies have submitted three reports so far. The first and only time we discussed it in 2011. It may not be such a problem that we did not discuss these reports in 2012, what a problem it is that the recommendations and decisions delivered by the committees to the National Assembly, as well as the independent state bodies themselves, which these recommendations and those decisions have no effect and do not have their own application in practice. Of course, in that sense, I think it is necessary for the National Assembly to find mechanisms to monitor the application of the measures itself. Otherwise, by our inertness, I would say, by lack of courage and lack of ambition, to exercise the oversight function of the National Assembly, we are becoming the most responsible for what is the level and degree of confidence of citizens in parliament at a very low level. When I talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency's report, I must say that we will support the Anti-Corruption Agency's report. I am a member of the Justice Committee, who did not vote for the conclusion adopted by the Justice Committee, precisely because in his conclusion he left out all those recommendations made by the Anti-Corruption Agency, and therefore our mark on these papers is against you, but we will vote for the report ourselves. What we've been able to see from these reports is clearly saying that the Agency has done its part of the job, all that has been placed in her jurisdiction. She said in her report that she successfully ended the conduct in as many as 90% of all cases related to the area of conflict of interest and incompatibility of functions. That it has increased its efficiency four times with regard to the processing and publication of the property reports and revenues, which I welcome, of course. When it comes to controlling the financing of political parties, or political entities, we have received information that from 83 parties, 69 parties submitted their annual report, i.e. the financing report, that you received around 1035 reports on the costs of the election campaign and that you submitted 53 requests on the basis of this. I think it's about the very satisfactory results of the work. I am very glad that the Anti-Corruption Agency acted publicly during, or after, the election campaign, which is expected of it, but also pointed out certain irregularities in the financing of the election campaign and said it did not agree publicly that certain companies formed right before the elections, which were marked by huge losses, some 50 million dinars, which do not even have any employees, but have found themselves as donors of certain political parties, which are now in the ruling coalition. I am also glad that the Anti-Corruption Agency has spoken publicly about the fact that it is totally unacceptable that certain political parties are credited to more favourable conditions than others, i.e. obtaining loans from some other banks, so they have received a one-bank loan with two blank bonds, of several million euros. I am pleased that the Agency has this way pointed to irregularities that have been undermined, but I would very much like the Agency to have, through the change of the law, the Anti-Corruption Agency, received greater powers and that, instead of public condemnation of such behaviour, it has in its hands a mechanism of reaction and that is exactly the reason and arguments in which I did not vote for the conclusion of the Justice Committee. Because I don't think he respects all those recommendations the Agency asked him to. Regardless of the obvious efforts the Anti-Corruption Agency is making to combat corruption in public administration, I cannot talk today about Serbia being in a situation where a systemic fight against corruption is being fought. If we were to wage a systematic fight against corruption, then we would have to primarily eliminate the systemic causes of corruption and that would mean that we would have to create an environment where such corruption would be difficult to begin with. It is therefore necessary to insist primarily as MPs, to ensure the greater public in the work of the state authorities, that the recommendations of independent state authorities and regulatory bodies are respected and not only respected but also that the supervisory function over them has the assembly that they have some effect and application in practice. When we talk about fighting corruption, the most important thing is an independent, efficient and responsible judiciary, which today Serbia unfortunately does not have. That's what you're saying in your reports in an indirect way. Serbia is among the countries with the highest degree of corruption, we are taking an 80th place among the 186 countries covered by the survey. Since 2007, we haven't made progress, we haven't improved our place by the corruption perception index, and that's something that's very bad. With such a high degree of corruption as Serbia today, it is hard for any of the investors to come to Serbia to invest, we will hardly have those promised ten billion euros at the annual level, which are spoken of by certain political parties, because in a situation where the judiciary does not work properly, these promises become meaningless and ridiculous. In a country that has a dramatic corruption problem, in a country where maltene corruption enters every port of society, it is incomprehensible and unimaginable that we still have no law to protect alarmers. Persons who indicate or suspect certain corrupt acts, the actions of some others, must have adequate legal protection. They thus expose their personal integrity, their life, the life of their families to a certain risk, and it is not good what is being done today. I welcome the idea of what a rule book is, but I don't think the rules provide enough protection for alarmers. The best example is one that you know very well, Mrs. Valentina Krstic, who received alarm status in 2012, because she pointed to certain malfeasances, abuses in the Penal jurisprudence in Nis, but somehow lost that status. Instead of being protected the moment she got her status, she was out of a job and a disciplinary procedure was launched against her. Unfortunately, this isn't the only case. There are other cases like that. We will remember Goran Milosevic, the man who exposed the road mafia and who saved the state a lot of millions of euros. What happened to him? How is he rewarded? Three years later, he lost his job and under public pressure, or the media was returned to his job. We will also remember Dr. Bokorov, who pointed to malfeasance at the Vojvodina Institute of Oncology, who said there is a public trade in waiting lists. From the moment she pointed out such things she became a victim of harassment at her job. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about why we really want to influence this law as soon as possible in the congregation procedure. It is one of a series of steps that need to be met in order to achieve a successful fight against corruption. I hope these examples won't affect those other people to deter them from reporting suspicions of certain corrupt activities in the bodies they work in, but it's necessary to have a much higher level of protection. We cannot have a successful fight against corruption until we have a professionalized public administration and we have an independent, responsible and effective judiciary. The good administration is just a defense of corruption, and the judiciary is all that sees what is happening in society, which is bad enough to sanction and because of these two things is a necessary condition for an effective and quite successful fight against corruption. So far, regardless of public boasting, we have no significant progress in processing cases in the area of corruption. The number of convictions reached is extremely low. In corruption-related processes around 40% of convicted persons have been punished by parole, which seems to me to be one-fifth of what I found in a report, has been punished by an effective prison sentence for up to six months. So, extremely low sentences are at stake. Personally, since I was working in the judiciary and I know, and especially after a reform that has been tragically implemented, that the judiciary is not qualified to still deal seriously with corruption and I think it is necessary to make certain cuts in this regard with what was bad in the past and I think that Serbia is the only one today, you correct me if you think I'm wrong, a country that has in fact no prosecutor who specializes in the fight against corruption and perhaps the answer to that question – why and how is it possible that 15,000 or 13,000 criminal charges, which the police have filed with the prosecution in the highest percentage? Even 77% of these criminal charges have been dropped. It's really a very high percentage of rejected criminal charges, and I think that the judiciary in this sense, and we're here to help him, of course, by creating conditions for his independence, would have to work differently. In the end, I conclude that the condition for a successful fight against corruption is certainly an independent and effective judiciary, and that without the seriously taken reform of the judiciary, we cannot even talk about a successful fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19507	The next speaker is Jelena Travar Miljevic. He's not here. Mr. Petkovic, I apologize, just to ask you what time can you finish? Can you finish it by three? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The institutions whose reports we discussed yesterday and which we are talking about today are very important to our society. Reports show that these institutions have significantly strengthened in the previous period, that their reputation and importance, as well as the contribution to the control they are carrying out, have been increased above all by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The DRI Act is primarily the fruit of the co-operation of a large number of MPs with the huge help of domestic and foreign institutions that have shown us all the good things that this law should contain when we wrote it in this House. The state audit institution is certainly one of the most important institutions in the country that has not replaced any other existing one, but has been formed as one new institution, with the above all task of raising the level of parliamentary control of the executive government, to influence the fact that state money is being spent efficiently, economically and rationally. Successful DRI work contributes most to the prevention and detection of corruption and other illegal actions in state bodies, all in order to legal and dedicated spending of budgetary resources. You know well that the DSS supported both the election and the DRI Council, that we voted in favour of the Rules of Procedure, voted in favour of amendments and additions to the Law, supported and tried to create the best conditions for the uninterrupted, efficient and quality work of the DRI, and it wasn't once easy in a certain period when you were sitting in this building together with us here. First of all, because we believe that parliamentary control of the executive authority is extremely important and that all citizens should know how to spend their money. We have witnessed numerous reports sent by the DRI to this House. We have witnessed a number of recommendations that you have made to entities whose work you have audited, we have witnessed numerous reports that you have filed against responsible persons in ministries, in public enterprises, in local self-government. We see from this report that the most frequent irregularities occurred in the areas of public procurement, non-recording of financial assets and obligations, that incomes and incomes are not shown realistically but in reduced amounts, that the expenditure on salaries and remuneration of employees is increased without legal basis. This was also discussed by Mr Sretenović and Mrs Urosevic and the Committee on Finance and at many meetings organised by the DRI, in order to affect all those entities that can help them in this work. Recently, the Public Procurement Act, which was said to be one of the major problems for Serbian society, has been amended, since hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros have not been poured into the state register, which apparently ended in someone's private pockets. Reading your report, Mr. Sretenovic, I have concluded that the biggest irregularities have just been discovered in public enterprises. I don't know if, after the adoption of this law on public procurement, the rigging of the tender was stopped before the tenders were announced. I don't think so. I don't know if it's still happening that the lowest bid in the tender, especially in the field of performance, gets a few times bigger during its realization. I guess something like that happens, too. I don't know if the contracts are still changing through annexes. We know the Public Procurement Authority has 30 days to approve a certain annex, but we know that this same administration says they can't do that job in 30 days because it's a little time, and we know that people who ask for consent to get a certain contract annex can't wait 30 days. First of all, I mean the problems that some local self-government has in this country. You showed us a sample of 122 audit entities that you discovered that supplies of goods, services and works were made against the legal regulations of 47 billion dinars in 2012. The government of the Republic of Serbia, or Minister Mladjan Dinkic, will on Monday, through budget rebalances, try here in this House to convince us that he will save 39 billion dinars of money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the DRI, you who are sitting here, of course, your associates, have found that on the basis of control of only one percentage of entities whose business you have the authority to exercise control, manipulates a figure greater than 80 billion dinars. The state audit institution saw this from your presentation has 173 employees, 143 on audit operations. It is good that you will receive another 50 new people, but I ask the question – why are you gone twice as many? What's the problem? Is it a financial problem? Is the problem with the funds, the money? Do you know Mr. Sretenovic, it's not your job, but I believe you may be doing this in both this and the years to come, how many people have the new government hired in the ministries? How many people are employed in this people's congregation? It's a question for the president of the assembly, I'll give him that anyway, but you should do it. So for some there's money, someone's salary can be cut off from the budget by a certain amount of money, and there's no money to increase and enable an institution that needs to control how that money is spent, to help them in this way. On the other hand, the question arises – why would they also increase the number of employees and why they should work so hard when this newest judiciary does not do its job properly, when penalties are scheduled from five to 50,000 dinars, when certain procedures last for more than two years and as you just said – many proceedings have become obsolete because of the time of limitations. Let's look for new powers for the DRI and you who are doing this job and we as MPs who are participating in amending the legal rules. Let's make sure that the representatives of this new government who have received the proposal for a framework for obtaining conditions, for setting a deadline, for getting a recommendation, for green light and for a date, act in accordance with the rules that exist in the EU. You know how it works in Slovenia. Slovenia has an accounting court. Right? They determine a certain violation and can work immediately. You establish a violation, file a report, judge pushes it in the drawer. You say after two or three years – what to do, out of date. In addition to reporting, you've made a number of recommendations. Have all the recommendations been taken into account? The Law on the Budgetary System, Criminal Code and other regulations have been amended, but those recommendations you make must be applied. Do you think it's the only way that people who have convinced themselves on the spot in specific cases what's the problem when they suggest that it really be accepted? Thanks to the work of the State Auditing Institution in the Republic of Serbia's budget, several have returned, not to say exactly has a 6.7 billion figure for the previous year, probably in the meantime a much higher amount that Mladjan Dinkic will spend on one Monday because he will iron out the debts of the public enterprise "Serb Roads" and the Health Fund. Thanks to your recommendations, the volume of financial and non-financial assets has been increased. A large number of institutions have established internal control, i.e. audit. Not everything is ideal. Far from it. There are big problems. I'm sure the DRI is constantly moving forward and its results are better and better over time. That was our goal when we founded this institution. Again, as with your re-election and your associates, I ask you to be our very support in fighting corruption and in the fight that we should fight together in the control of the executive and the government of the Republic of Serbia. I know the DRI will only be as strong as it has support in this House. Yesterday in this room, we had a chance to hear a brilliant report by Mr. Sasa Jankovic, who is without hair, without twisting, saying what the biggest problems of Serbian citizens are and how the new government treats them. That's what we expect from the DRI. At the end of the year, you will report on the work of the new government, its ministers, its director who paid the thirteenth salary, its mayor who is the chairman of the Srbigas Management Board and a number of other officials who, unless they behave in accordance with the legal regulations, will come under review and meet in your report. One minister from the previous government convinced us here and explained how energy is being saved by putting a lid on the sherpa when we cook lunch. These ministers are now explaining how they are in debt to repay for everything they have owed Serbia over the past few years. I urge you and I ask you to resist all these pressures, to be brave and determined, to do your job honestly and honestly without any fear of any unpleasantness you may have, because an institution is created here, here defends its integrity. You protect, as well as the MPs, the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and while you do so, you will always have the support of the DSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19509	Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. At the same time, I remind you that today is the last Thursday of the month, or the day when in time from 16:00 to 1900 the members of the government will answer parliamentary questions. Now I'm setting a break, and we start at 4:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19510	Dear People's MPs, since today's last Thursday of the month is in accordance with Article 205(1). We approach the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to ask parliamentary questions in time from 16:00 to 1900 hours. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia informed the National Assembly that the following members of the government were unable to attend today's session asking parliamentary questions: Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications Ivan Mrkic, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mladjan Dinkic, Finance and Business Minister Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Management, Bratislava Petkovic, Minister of Culture and Information and Sulejman Ugljanin, Minister of Unportfella. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP first has to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under his jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly shall warn any MP, who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The Government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must be answered orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. If, in the preparation of the response to the parliamentary question, certain facts, whose determination requires a longer or more complex analysis, may be extended or extended to up to 30 days. The competent minister shall address the National Assembly for a maximum period of five minutes to answer the question. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the MP's question, which has asked the question, shall have the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to their question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly in the course of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and apportioning of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I would remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, by giving a change of word first to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19511	Half of the government's ministers are not present today, she sent an apology, etc., although all months ago since they became members of the government knew that article 205 said that last Thursday of the month MPs of the National Assembly had the opportunity to ask questions to the Prime Minister. I don't think that's allowed, acceptable, and this apology, the notice should be abolished at all as a possibility of anyone not avoiding it. This means that in particular, I will not be able to ask the question I was going to ask today to Minister Dinkic, Knezevic and some other ministers in the next month. However, thanks for the presence of Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic and I have a question for you. It's about electrifying agriculture. Agriculture is a small consumer of electricity and has high costs because there is no developed power grid. It spends expensive and environmentally unacceptable fuels, for example, pumping water and watering crops. Are you ready to give consent to the EPS, and I talked to Dr Acom Markovic, the chairman of the board of directors, are you ready to set up an electrical network at the request of the users, in this case the Belgrade agricultural combination, then the New Slankamen orchards in the Indji municipality, thus allowing for cheaper watering of crops and lower costs? They think that the issue is being considered in a common way that means several months. As a reasonable lady, Minister of Energy, I ask you to give an order to meet all those who seek to develop an electric network to the atolls in which they wish to have two harvests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19512	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19513	Thanks for asking. There's a few things. I agree with you that it takes a lot of time not only to build a network, but to get many permits. Otherwise, we have a lot of problems in the distribution network itself, and these huge losses that you often hear about are because of or because of the underdevelopment of the network, or because of its perseverance, etc. The relationship between someone who asks to have such a network and the public enterprise itself is their relationship. From the ministry's point of view, we don't mind, and we can only help in the sense that in some way we suggest to a public enterprise that what it does is faster, of course, with respect to the law. There's one more thing as you know, and that's the one that the end-user has to participate in just funding and investing, which can sometimes be a serious problem. I guess in this case, it's the same thing, but we can talk to the public company and the combination.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19514	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zechariah Trnavcevic, an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19515	I am not satisfied with the answer that everywhere in the world, electricity, telephone and various other companies bring a kilowatt hour, cubic meter of gas or any other unit to the home threshold. This is not the only case in this country where very expensive charges for connections are required and one procedure that implies time. Here's the time to water, although it's been raining these days it's time to water in June and August. So I ask and propose that the Ministry of Energy approves the Elektroditration, confess as a cost because they are calling on you, as foreseen in their budget, whether or not it is allowed, that, with the participation of the user, let's say for digging a cave or for some other cost, they take over to move towards a gradual expansion of the network of electricity distribution to these users, because they would have significant savings and benefits, without talking about this ecological interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19516	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19517	I am asking Minister Milan Bačević. I would like to ask him – did Serbia become a Russian colony, because Gazprom is untouchable for domestic laws? The question led me to say that Russia's mine rent is 15%, and Nis Gazpromnift in Serbia pays five times less ore rent, as the Serbian government has concluded that the 3 per cent mineral rent for Gazprom is not changing until 2023. Budgets show that yearly due to price differences, the Serbian budget will be damaged by as much as 40m euros, which is not a small sum. I ask Minister Bačević, who defended the rent invariable clause at the government's meeting on 23 May – whether it legalised the privileged position of "NIS" on the Serbian market for the next 10 years, although there was a legal basis for this to change. At the time of signing an energy agreement in 2008, the mining rent was 3% and Serbia committed to staying that way until the Russian partner returned the money invested in Serbia. Gazprom has already paid off its investments, so the aim of this intention is unclear. A team before they pay even 15% in the country of origin. How well the Russian company is doing with us is illustrating the fact that "NIS" by its own recognition made a clear profit of around 450m euros last year, which means that in one year he paid off everything he invested in Serbia. If so, it would mean that for the next 10 years, they would cut off local self-governments that extract oil and gas. Should it be reminded that most of these local self-governments are located in Vojvodina. I would like to remind myself that only in 2011 oil worth 200m euros was extracted from the site around Kickinda, which resulted in only four million euros due to the low amount of the mining rent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19518	The word is made by Minister Bacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19519	The issue of mining rent is well known to our public. You asked the question and gave the answer. But I owe you an answer to something you didn't say and you kept saying. Serbia is a sovereign state and is not Russian Governor. As for our relationship with Russia, especially now after the signed strategic partnership, where we have the right to hope for even better days than those we inherited and found. The time you call upon is the time when I was in deep opposition. You know? It was signed by someone else. This government only respects long-awaited commitments. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19520	Would you like to ask a further question, Mrs. Papuga? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19521	You haven't answered any of my questions at all. I didn't find out, I asked you -- is it true that by 2023, the mining rent is 15% for all other investors in Serbia, only smaller, and I said how much for Russian investors, in fact, for "Gaspromneft," and why is that? You made your decision, that's how it stands. Why isn't it like that for all the other investors?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19522	The word is made by Minister Bacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19523	I've answered you. It's something that's finished and it's an interstate contract that has a certain duration. I was just respecting something. Not me, but actually the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not my will. I also think that the mine rent is 3% low. I also know that there is something that needs to be respected, and these are interstate contracts and long ago interstate obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19524	Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19525	Yes, but under that first contract, it was going to be a mine rent so big only until Russia fulfilled those obligations to Serbia. She fulfilled them, fulfilled her obligations to Serbia, and why is the contract now extended to another 10 years? Now we have no obligation to stick to that 15% in that rent, actually in 3%.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19526	Mr. Bacevic, you have no right to answer. This was a comment to your answer. MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19527	In the absence of the finance minister, I will ask the prime minister – what will the government do about the purchase of anti-building missiles, since only last month it was destroyed in Serbia by 15,000 hectares of orchards, so far, so far? In this month, the hardest way to get past the Indji municipality, where houses are damaged and there are even injured, and the damage to agricultural crops is unnecessary to talk about. We know that the emergency sector has submitted a timely request to the Ministry of Finance to grant funds for the purchase of anti-building missiles, that due to the general situation in agriculture farmers are not often able to secure their agricultural crops and damages announced, since this will be the season of major rainfall and with a large amount of urban clouds, will the government be adequately responding, since they are already late in reactions? I also have a question for Minister Obradovic – when will the Director of the Official Messenger, Mr Ljusic, resign? He claimed that in the "officer" nothing will be found about an affair with math tests for a small graduation, and yet we are witnessing that two employees of the "officer" have been arrested. On the other hand, we have said and we will not stand down from it, we will clearly support the government on its European path. We will support the fight against corruption and crime, but, as in all previous governments, under that mantra, everything and everything must not be happening, which we will not support. Mr. Obradovic, since 2008, every year in education has been marked by an affair. In 2008, 100,000 textbooks from private printing works were withdrawn. The 2009 PISA tests showed that one third of our students were functionally uneducated. We have the first small graduation affair in 2011, in 2012 we have a second small graduation affair, in 2013 the third small graduation affair, and I think you should declare your resignation and responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19528	Do any of the government's representatives want to respond? The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19529	Since you asked me about the anti-urban missiles, to be clear, it's not the system's place in the MUP. I don't know why it's even put into the jurisdiction of the M.O.P. I don't know any other M.O.P. that's targeting the anti-urban missiles. Since no one wanted to take it, it belonged to the MUP in the previous distributions. As usual, we belong to functions, and no money is given to make these functions real. So we took control of the border, and we never got the money for it, the money stayed with the others. There's a big problem here now, but in those cities you mentioned, it wasn't a lack of rockets, it was a big storm. I think several hundred missiles were fired when it came to India. That was the last and last year's supply problem, first of all, paying, and I think that's the problem with technology. The technology we're using is pretty out of date. The world now mostly uses rockets fired from the air. One more thing. In Belgrade and the surrounding Belgrade, there is a special problem because the use of these missiles is prohibited because of the airport and because of flying at a lower altitude than it is in some other regions. I agree with you that now we have to do it, given the climate change and that very often there is a storm, and that this system is being combed to the end and we see what's wrong. We've already talked about seeing what's missing in order to exist, just in case, in reserve for situations like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19530	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19531	Comrade Chiquiriz, you've got the wrong information. The problem with the little prom doesn't date back yesterday, it exists years ago, even more than a decade ago. The other thing is whether it's written about it. The fact is, we first discovered who stole the tests. An effective and energetic MOP action has been captured by a person who stole and distributed tests, as well as by a group of assistants who sold these tests further. We'll see what further the investigation shows and what the prosecutor will say about the type of crime. As for the claim about the 100,000 books that I allegedly pulled, and I saw that today was a single daily paper, it's absolutely incorrect. First of all, it's a number that absolutely doesn't exist. Secondly, my colleague Zoran Loncar's move, which he had been insisting a few months before, to determine whether the books used in the follow-up were approved by the authorities. It turns out that a number of books were not approved and were printed without permission from the resolution ministry. It was then said by individual private publishers that the minister and ministry prohibit the use of books, which is incorrect. The books did not have the necessary permission, and in particular there is no relevant information about the number of books. When it comes to writing tests, it's wrong again. Our students participated, when we talk about 2009, I'll remind you that at the time we organized a conference in preparation for PISA testing, we called OECD representatives, shared material and PISA tests, and in this contest our students improved the results compared to 2006. In the field of reading literacy, Serbia has made progress of 40 points, one of the biggest improvements some country has recorded between the two PISA tests. Also, the percentage of students who did not reach functional literacy from 51% to 32% from 2006 to 2009. This decrease in the percentage of functionally illiterate is almost 20 points. It's one of the highest that the state has ever done in the framework of the PISA research. On the scale of mathematical and scientific literacy progress has been made compared to 2006, by seven points in both areas. Lastly, if I remember correctly, the question, we at the Ministry of Education have done everything possible to maintain a small graduation in accordance with the regulations. The Ministry has neither prepared nor printed nor distributed tests. Now we know who the thief is, and we know why the Republic Commission for the Implementation of Small Graduation decided how she made it. The professional public agrees that this is the best decision. The disciples filled out their wishes, and we will go out for the next few days to meet those desires. I'm not responsible for anything like that. Responsibilities must be absolutely individualised. Am I responsible for something I couldn't do and am I responsible for something I didn't do? I'm telling you, there is no such thing as my responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19532	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19533	For Minister Obradovic alone, there should be the responsibility of the Director of the Official Messenger. As for the prime minister's response, I agree with what the prime minister said. We don't have planes, we don't have Earth aggregates, we have a system of anti-building protection where out of 1800 stations in operation is 1600. The emergency sector, which belonged to you, reacted in time. The hydrometeorological institute pointed out in time what season with abundant rainfalls awaited us and how many city clouds there would be. It's a lack of money to buy missiles. You're the prime minister, and you have to regulate it under emergency with the finance minister, because it's going to be a season until all this is determined. That is why the appeal was sent to local self-government that although it is not in their jurisdiction, they buy anti-building missiles from their resources, which many municipalities have done. The problems with the planes are the problems with all the anti-urban missile-cell protection systems and they're understandable. It's just that there aren't enough rockets where it can be intervened for six years, and there hasn't been an increase in the fee for shooters working on anti-urban missile stations. This appeal, I need on behalf of many farmers, who have called our parliamentary group, to pass on this appeal to respond urgently, because one of the most difficult seasons in the assessment of the Hydrometeorological Institute awaits us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19534	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19535	I'd just like to remind you that we were lifted here when the finance minister suggested so-called. abolishing the own revenues of individual ministries. So there was in the Emergency Law a taxi provision that was paid for that emergency system. This has been abolished and this is no longer the interior ministry's income, but the entire budget's income. In times of deficits and economic crisis, that's impossible. This is simply spent on all the total expenditures that exist at the level of the entire government. The best solution is that it belongs to whoever's supposed to lead it. The police should be involved in the launch of real missiles, or military, but we are an organ of security, and we are not an organ of the Hydrometeorological Institute. From that point of view, it's absolutely irrational that it belonged to the Ministry of the Interior. Since it's already gone as it turned out, we have to fight and deal with it now, especially at a time when you don't have enough money and you're covering it at the expense of the rest of the ministry. I absolutely agree that this is very important, but it should follow something else, and that is also the insurance system that the agriculture and finance ministries need to establish with farmers, because none of our contributions are secured in 99% of the cases. Then we'd all have a much bigger income. I accept what you suggested and I'll talk to the finance minister about what we can do to... This is more, more important all year round, because the time difference is lost. At the same time, you can have floods and fires. The seasons have practically ceased to reflect themselves in the right way at the time of climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19536	Anyone else want to give an answer? The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19537	I would just like to help solve this problem that has been a major problem for years in Serbia. We can't have effective and good anti-urban missile protection anymore, because we're on an important corridor, because I've led this resolution of elemental disasters into the previous two governments, and I know exactly what this is about. In order to fire anti-urban missiles, we have to ask for consent from the center and he informs us that they have overflights, that we can't shoot for the next 45 minutes and the city settles five villages, then they give us permission to act and we have nothing more to act on. Do you understand? We are on an important corridor, European. They're flying over to the Middle East and Athens and it's impossible to technically agree. We have to go to new technology. New technology is 100% protection. The land they've been using hasn't had a city in decades. It's something we can do in cooperation with the aviation we have, agriculturals and others. We can stop it in another way. It needs to be done very seriously. Otherwise, anti-urban protection no longer has the ability to act, because the flights are so large, international corridors go through Serbia, and you can't get permission to act sometimes for hours. So then we had as many missiles as you wanted, but it's not worth it when you can't shoot.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19538	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19539	You know what, I don't want this discussion to last too long. The point is that Serbia fired 19000 missiles in one season the most. One season's needs are an average of 13,000 missiles. We now have 5,700 or 3.8 per station available. So, if they come two days behind city clouds, the first day we might stop, if it's a smaller cloud, but the second day is a disaster. I'm talking about the number of missiles and missing resources, not corridors and planes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19540	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19541	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I also wanted to discuss and ask about anti-urban protection, but since it has already been used and others have asked, I would only make one comment, I don't need an answer to that. The issue of anti-urban protection is not only in technology, it's in people as well. Unfortunately, these people who need to fire rockets into city clouds pay local self-government to their loads and very small amounts. There's no interest in people who know how to handle these anti-urban missiles, to do the job. Therefore, there is also a need for the government and the resolution ministry to do something and to increase the fees for those who work, i.e. to be on duty and to respond when they receive a call and notice that a city cloud is approaching and that they go to the place where this anti-urban protection is located. It can be solved, but other means must be allocated. What I want to ask as a question, unfortunately the Minister of Agriculture is not there, but that question can also be passed on to him, is protection from something else, from the flood. Today in Serbia, we have such water streams that are buried, narrowed down, etc., so that every major rain comes to the streams and rivers, and they pour out and the damages are huge. That's because no one will, starting with the Republic Geodetic Institute and other organs, go out into the field and measure how much it's the root of a stream or some river and tell those who took those water streams to return to the legal limits. The damages resulting from this fall to the burden or local self-government or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are compensated in one way or another, rather than channelling those funds and simply solving at least one longer period of time for the problem. Get on the ground, have the inspectors of the Ministry of Agriculture come out, and they'll see how many waters, many medium-sized rivers, or these big ones are in shape. Therefore, I appeal and ask the Government for an answer to the question – will it give an order to competent state services and republican authorities, which exist for this reason, to do their job and thus protect housing, business facilities and crops? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19542	Thank you. Does anyone want to respond from members of the government? You will receive a written reply within the specified time limit. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19543	We in every city, in every area, have zones that are defenseless for unforeseen floods and major elemental disasters. But it has happened in the last 20 years that in these areas between the defence areas, these are the bedbugs, and the rivers have built thousands of houses and industrial buildings by wild construction. In some cities, there are five to ten thousand such objects. They warned citizens who were building in the Danube area near Novi Sad where the legal area, in the area of West Morava, Great Morava, etc. However, they continue to build in areas where construction is banned. It's an area in the case of large water stops where water is released to protect the settlements and it's an defenseless zone. We now have entire villas in defenseless zones, entire centers, restaurants, and it's done on your own risk. They risked it, and that's where they built the facilities. Therefore, the state has no obligation whatsoever, although we have helped many wild settlements when they are flooded, etc., but I would appeal to everyone not to build in areas that are in the defenseless area, between the misery and the river. This is the case in all Serbian cities and it is today the biggest problem. Now that they were high water stops, there was no water past the area that was designated for defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19544	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19545	This is called a classic replacement thesis. I didn't ask that, but it doesn't matter. I wasn't talking, and my question wasn't about defenseless zones. It was about narrowing the water streams by taking over the riverbeds and other water streams. It's not a problem, I said who should do it. The Republic Geodetic Institute needs to go out into the field and measure, because they know exactly the limits of the water streams, so they can tell those who have taken it back. Another question I wanted to ask the government as a government, given that we have today on the agenda a strategy on judicial reform and a strategy on combating corruption, do we have a strategy, and we have, do we apply it to save Serbia from dying? We have a situation today that in Serbia there are fewer and fewer of us. Every year, a city of 35,000 to 40,000 people disappears. Some of our villages are located only as a geographical concept in western, eastern, southern Serbia, etc. Unfortunately, this has also started to happen in developed areas of Serbia. Will the government make a strategy to save Serbia, to keep us as much as possible, to have children as possible, to have as many of us as possible, and not to make us as little as possible? I cannot have certain local self-governments alone fighting the fall of birth, as my city of Jagodina and some other cities do. I don't want to advertise Jagodina, but I urge the government to make a strategy that will be applied, not a strategy that will be done by certain urban experts who have not moved from Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis etc., and they talk about how to save the village, how to prevent Serbia from dying, etc.? Please take action. A unique Serbia asks you as a government to make a strategy that in 15, 20 or 30 years in this Serbia there will be more citizens of Serbia than it is today. That's not what I'm asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19546	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19547	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Dacic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, ministers, a year ago we spoke here, Mr Dacic, at that session where you presented your government. Then you came out with a programme and goals that are not in itself controversial, but for so long, the goals of each government have become a general place of political life in Serbia. It's been a year and given this sobering message, which, personally, we from LDP and part of the citizens certainly didn't need, but it seems to me that your government needed it, including you personally, and it arrived today from Berlin, I'm interested in what you're going to do, Mr. Dacic, to respond to those shortcomings and weaknesses that we talked about during that session when we said that your cabinet was unconvinced, that we doubted his ability to realize the jobs you put before you? You, Mr. Dacic, have a rare privilege as Prime Minister. Practically in solving the most difficult problems in society, you had unreserved support for the most significant part of the opposition. I don't think I'm sticking my finger in your eye today and I remind you that most of these problems are actually the result of the policy that you and others have formulated in some time that we barely survived together. Then we were on opposite sides, and today she stayed, I think, just one, the one we've always been on. I don't like it, I think you should respond to that quality of yours, that constant need to keep us in some political theater together with most of your government. Everything became an imitation of life, and the agreements you reach by negotiating them, and then negotiating their application, and interpreting and interpreting the agreements you make in the world, and the budget rebalancing that you have adopted to meet again here in three months and discuss the rebalance of that budget, and the fight against corruption that has turned into the destruction of the country's institutions and legal order. I ask you to answer the question of how and on what will you build the necessary credentials for us as citizens, not just as politicians, give an argument to why they would trust you, since you described yourself as the man who lied to the whole society? That is why Berlin says today – in December we will see each other again and discuss the implementation of the agreement reached, because they can do so, and we are the hostages of such an attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19548	Thank you. Does the Prime Minister want to answer? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19549	I certainly didn't ask for the opposition's support for what I'm doing. If you think what I'm doing is wrong, everyone has a right to express their opinion. We faced a similar problem as any other government before that, but there is one difference, we entered into its resolution, unlike some others who left it for some other time. Maybe some governments didn't get there, some didn't welcome it, one prime minister was killed, it might have been resolved in his time, but year after year, from government to government, the problem was passed down from knee to knee. Faced with that question, we can't help but realize that it's a question of all the questions. Maybe that's not how we feel about him. In all the conversations we've had, it's a question raised as a question of all the questions. If we had not made progress in dialogue with Pristina, we could have had spectacular reforms in Serbia, no one would care. On the other hand, if you are making progress in dialogue with Pristina, you may be seeing the results of all reforms on the internal agenda with such a sharp dioptria. In other words, all EU member states say that following the admission of some EU countries, the scale has been significantly raised. Yesterday in Brussels, a senior official, Commissioner, told me that his country must go through what we will go through in the negotiations, which was passing through Croatia, so that they would still be with the third chapter. These are all the problems we've faced. We didn't hide anything. There were no secret talks or negotiations. There are no wrong interpretations, it's all written. In addition, to be precise, Mr Jovanovic, the European Council is expected to inform me tomorrow, two hours ago by European Council President Van Rompei, to open accession negotiations with Serbia. What will be discussed in the coming months is a negotiating platform for negotiations with Serbia. It has nothing to do with our negotiations. Tomorrow they open up and start negotiations, that's what you've been fighting for, and DS and everyone else. I want to tell everyone that this is a historic day for Serbia, and not only for Serbia but also for the EU. Negotiations on Serbia's EU membership will be opened tomorrow. This is a non-refundable process towards the EU. Unconditionally, without any new conditions and without any new sessions that would be dedicated to these issues. As you know in the procedure, the first goes to create a negotiating platform. It is made by the European Commission. It is also voiced unanimously, not on Serbia. On the other hand, screening goes, comparing our legislation on EU legislation. After that, an intergovernmental conference is scheduled to be scheduled at the latest for January 2014. Therefore, Serbia will open negotiations tomorrow and get the deadline for the intergovernmental conference to be scheduled and held by the end of January 2014. No other government has ever done that before. I'm sorry, but you should all give it up. Maybe you're against it, I don't know. Maybe, if you're against it, you'll put up a protest. As far as I know, that's what you fought for while you were with me. If you became anti-European after that, that's another question now. Time, Mr. Dacic, please. I really don't understand you, I don't understand you because the DS is created to take Serbia to Europe, and you are now experiencing that this government is leading Serbia into Europe. But I'm not sitting over it. I think we're under a heavy burden. Mr. Jovanovic is right, this must be a reform and a turn of society as a whole. It can't be the goal, it can be the path and the system of values that we stand for. In that sense, we're only at the end of a very difficult start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19550	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, would you like to ask an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19551	It would be good if there were less personal interests in your answer, and more space for that policy that is needed for every society that faces such big problems as ours, Mr. Dacic. I won't remind you how they came into existence. On the fact that your government has brought the country closer to those goals we're talking about here today. I would not only build a conclusion on the superiority and quality of your government, because from another point of view, it could be concluded that Serbia was not able to achieve these goals because of you and those who came here in their undercoats and disgraced the whole country when European commissioners came here before us. But that's the past. What is crucial today is the question of your ability, as Prime Minister, to disrupt the entire society because it is obvious that these jobs we have ahead of us, until December, when this same European Council will be declared, cannot be completed by you changing, as you yourself said, by commenting in a discussion of the criticism of the opposition's work, through a finding – I have changed, I believe, for the better, and you are going where I have been. You said it yourself. But how do you think, Mr Dacic, to achieve these goals, when in the day when a key decision is made in the German parliament, your official, deputy director of the Kosovo Office, says there is no theoretical chance that Serbia will participate in the Kosovo elections, and you agree on the date and their organisation? What's this all about? Who's the victim of that? Who's gonna pay the price? Is there any society that the government took by hand and led to heaven? I don't think there's a country like that. You haven't made any assumptions in this year that here in our debate you say – you from LDP could work, you didn't want to. That's the key question I'm asking you today. How do you plan to solve the economic crisis if the whole country is stationed in your project? How do we deal with that budget rebalance? What are we gonna do about sports? He's a wreck. What about the infrastructure? She's devastated. What about culture? Says the culture minister -- if I wasn't a minister, I'd be on the street. What does that mean, millions will be on the street, and only your cabinet will observe that side? (President: Time. The key question is the question you have to answer, you are the Prime Minister. Are you able to be Prime Minister who needs Serbia or not, until next election? Not Podokin's villages, not the Sartid that's been working for two months, so we don't know what we're going to do, not imaginary investors, but the truth and agreement with the people who live here until next election. You closed that door. That's why there's no such thing as expected today. That's why you imitate some pleasure, and you know that you're not satisfied. (President: Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. ) When you scratch under the skin, you face everything that everyone has faced, expecting an understanding that is missing. Because reality is like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19552	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Do you want to answer? Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19553	Most of these questions were rhetorical questions that he obviously did not expect an answer to. This government is me personally and all those who participated in these talks had two key priorities ahead of them. Besides, it wasn't me who set them up. It was the European Council, at the time of the previous government. One is internal reforms and another is progress in dialogue with Pristina. We played by a given script, or homework, which they had previously established. We didn't lay down the rules of the game. What I do not think we should forget, regardless of party differences, is that you are in power of LDP, DS or whatever, to mark the opening of negotiations on Serbia's EU membership. As far as I can tell, Boris Tadic was playing round the till we got candidate status, what would you do if we had now opened negotiations at the time of your government. You here now want to cause a sense of guilt, as if we are now guilty and everything has failed because the greatest success in the history of any government in Serbia has been achieved since the introduction of a multi-party system. You've all had a chance to show yourself. Are we satisfied? We're not happy. Because we believe that negotiations should have been opened earlier, because we feel that they are constantly blackmailing us, because we feel that they do not have enough confidence in us alone, not just in us, but in all the governments of Serbia that have been, because they have not fulfilled their commitments. Do we trust them? Just as little. That is why a historic process has been introduced that will lead, hopefully, to a better life for the citizens of Serbia. Vesna Pusic was here last week. They say Croatia will receive 11 billion euros for structural reforms and infrastructure projects in the coming years. According to the financing structure, 20% of Croatia, 80% of EU grants. Lithuania, when I spoke with the president of Lithuania, received seven billion euros for five years of grants. We now need to have a debate here on whether to go to the EU or not. It's a crime against other people's children and children, if we lie to them that it's not our national state interest. That's why I'm absolutely aware of what you're talking about. But no government has had the courage to do so so far, waiting for others. We could have waited for others to solve those problems. We could've said it now -- we're not going to accept this expropriation agreement. We did not accept it because it is good and it is ideal, but because it was time to turn to something else, or another way, because Serbia has no time to lose. If anything, you must at least admit, the courage of this Serbian leadership is that it has taken a bite to solve these problems and that we have not broken our teeth, and the negotiations will only begin. They're officially starting tomorrow. We are not meant to do this for ten years, as soon as possible to join the EU. Are we able to solve other internal problems? If we were able to solve this hardest, the logical conclusion is that we must be able to solve less difficult tasks, but I'm not saying that there are no better ones, I'm not saying that there are no more ambitious ones in the election and everyone has as much value in the electoral body. I think we should confess to each other, give credit for something we did right, as I'm willing to take a risk for something we didn't do right. But whatever we do didn't work out. I don't accept that. I think we've done a historic thing for our people and for our country. Are we too happy? We didn't. Because we felt it should be in October, but we received an unconditional decision, without new conditions, without new EU Council sessions, which will discuss negotiations, but which will only confirm, or confirm, the negotiating framework. Mr. Jovanovic, if you do not believe that, read tomorrow's conclusions when voted. You must understand that you are no longer the most formed man in Brussels. There are others now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19554	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19555	Mr. Dacic, it's not that. I know you're a police officer, although most often you don't act like the person responsible for the operation of the Serbian police. But there is no secret in what the German Parliament is deciding today. I wish I could get the wrong idea and read the German Parliament's decision, that you were right. I'm not going to tell you that the courage you've achieved in Brussels is courage. The courage was to work in this country for 20 years all the things you've done to get changed in the end. And the key question is not whether you should give your government credit for success, but the key question is whether or not this country is a penitent, such as Nikolic and Vukic, can be derived from this chaos in which it is 20 years or not? Based on what you've done in the past year, I can only conclude that the Brussels Agreement is the maximum of your government and that unfortunately, even today you're showing it. You don't have the ability to change this society. It's not about any raving. You can't find a single second of our operation where we've been setting you up with any obstacle to that job you've been doing. I would really like you to say - who prevented you from applying the agreement you reached in Brussels here in Parliament? Who? Why did you threaten Europe with a message if there is no date, there will be no agreement? What was the point of all this? It is courage to lead the country in such a way as you do, not what you did in Brussels after twenty years. The courage is what happened to 70,000 students who passed the entrance exam. Courage is all you do with budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19556	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19557	President of the Government, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer the question to the Ministry of Health and fully aware of the very difficult economic situation in our country and of the enormous efforts that healthcare professionals have made all these years to make the health system sustainable, which I am in pain and provide the necessary health care to our citizens. I ask the Ministry of Health whether there is a possibility and whether there is a programme which will be accepted in the next period by a number of young doctors who are unemployed in a working relationship with the Ministry of Health. I don't want to share with those doctors who are in major university centres waiting for work and those who are waiting for their jobs in smaller towns and municipalities, but I would still focus attention on those doctors who were able to get back from the big cities and give their professional careers to those places and put their knowledge into the function of treating their fellow citizens. However, a large number of these young doctors are on the National Employment Service record today, and that is why I ask and appeal that a number of these young people be employed at the Ministry of Health. What has particularly upset the citizens of Užica from the Zlatibor district of which I come, which is one of the largest districts in the Republic of Serbia in which the Užice Health Centre is gravitating nearly 400,000 citizens, is information that the Health Center in Užica has engaged, to the soul by contracting work, an intern who is over 80 years old, with reasons that they have not had the opportunity to hire someone younger. Of course, we are aware that people from the National Employment Department can't carry out specialist examinations but we simply have to give them a chance to train them because one day we're going to get into a situation where we don't have enough professional, young staff. It's not a unique case, at the same center, some other people who should have been retired long ago are working and it's become one bad practice. For all this I ask the question of the Ministry of Health – is there a possibility, is there any way that a certain number of these young, educated people will be admitted into a working relationship to enable them to treat our citizens in the next period? My second question is also addressed to the Ministry of Health, and it also concerns one unpleasant event of April and May, and it refers to the epidemic of a hospital infection caused by bacterium clostoridia, when we had a very short period of death of eight patients. I don't want to accuse anyone but I think it would be very bad for the Serbian public, for the reputation, for the reputation and trust in the health system that the health ministry does not come out with a final assessment of who is responsible for these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19558	Thank you. You'll get a written answer to the question. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19559	Dear People's MPs, honourable members of the government and Prime Minister, I will ask the Prime Minister a question. If tomorrow's European Council concludes in line with today's declaration by the German parliament, Serbia will not get a date or open negotiations on EU accession. Namely, the text of today's German Bundestag decision and something different is because it simply says that in January the negotiations will begin, with the condition that the European Council literally writes the European Council in December to check whether Serbia has applied an agreement on normalising relations with Pristina. So it's not true that there are no conditions. The condition was set in December, and Serbia must apply the agreement from the beginning to the end, which is at least 30 points, the exact tasks Serbia must carry out. So what you said earlier in the answer to the previous question is actually, I don't know whether conscious or unconscious, but certainly one public deception. Negotiations begin when an intergovernmental conference of 28 member states and Serbia is opened, on the other hand, and that is the date. You guys were talking all the time, the date's gonna be June 28th, and if tomorrow's conclusions are the way Bundestag was going, it's not gonna happen, and you know it very well. The main question is why the government is now playing optimism and trying to deceive the public about what happened. Target not reached. So, throughout the fall, Serbia will have to be under great control, with great repression to apply that agreement, perhaps to apply it, I don't say. In any case, in December, the European Council will check whether it is true, and the main monitor will be Germany, because it is its request, to do so on the European Council. It is not true that this is now being delayed, because the European Commission should prepare a complaint platform. All those negotiating platforms look like an egg and she's got it all. The application is special, and it'll only start when the talks start, but until the conversation is gone, they're not in sight. My basic question to you is, since the government has not met that goal, and we have been against the goal itself, and now we realize that the government has not met that goal, we are interested in whether you, as Prime Minister, will withdraw the consequences, and not, therefore, keep telling the story that everything is fine and that tomorrow something will begin that will not actually begin. So, simply put, are you going to resign, that's my first question, so we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19560	Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19561	I have to say, I haven't heard a more ridiculous question in a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19562	Free Samardzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19563	I agree that's a funny question for you, that's what I expected, such an answer, precisely because you have such a position that your authority is more than anything, and that by some chance you want to resign, you can't. You need Brussels and Berlin and London and Paris today and throughout the fall very much. Serbia today, as far as the government is concerned, is the most stable country in the world. Its stability is guaranteed by these centres of power in Europe, because you have to finish the job, which is why you deceived the public of Serbia with that date, and this job is the surrender of Kosovo, and that's why your answer is absolutely logical, it's funny my question and you won't give an answer to that question and I expected it. So that's where the main problem lies, Mr. Prime Minister. By the way, tomorrow you'll have to roll your sleeves and give the day after day assurances to Brussels and to those you've met, that everything is fine with you. Not that you will not resign, but you will work very hard to implement this agreement, which is an agreement on Kosovo's surrender to Serbia. They promised you, they put carrots on you, you know that rotten carrot in front of your eyes, and they said, if you do, you'll get a date. What did you get from Bundestag today and what will you get from the European Council tomorrow? You won't get a date. You'll get January. Ask who you want in Serbia today, whether it's January or January, everyone will say it's the moon, it's not the date, only you'll say it's the date, you'll completely reverse the meaning of those words, what you do all the time. Don't be arrogant. Our conversations here are not malignant and they are not critical, because we've had Serbia in mind all along, and that's why we've performed like this. From the very beginning of your work, we've given you a chance to get out of this problem you're in. You're on your way back without going back, you've destroyed the bridges behind you, and you now have to hand over Kosovo, and you'll do it, laughing at everything. And yet, Mr. President, which was clear to you both yesterday and the day before, that there was nothing from the date, you laughed, with a smile you received and told this story that you're telling us today. Something's starting tomorrow. It doesn't start tomorrow, your work begins tomorrow on the final and final surrender of Kosovo, and that's the date you have to meet. Therefore, my next question is whether you, Mr. President, can now list the public of Serbia at least 10 or 12 tasks that you will carry out in the coming months, until December when you will go to the first check, which if you do not pass, January will not be January, but will be February, March, April etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19564	The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19565	This is already a more serious question. Mr Samardzic, your party came to power along with your coalition partners at DOS, with huge support from abroad. So it doesn't make sense that you are now talking about whether someone has foreign support or not. When you were not ashamed to have the support of Madeline Albright, I don't know why one of us would be ashamed to have today's support from those from the EU, from the European Commission? Do they now regret supporting you, that's another question now. You just asked a question that I said was funny because, Mr. Samardzic, you're not a man who's uneducated. You are not a man who knows nothing about the EU. You teach that class to students. I suppose you know very well that no specific date for holding an intergovernmental conference has been specified in all the decisions opening the negotiations. I guess you know that well. I suppose you're making a good difference between opening negotiations and the date when an intergovernmental conference is held. Don't lie to students and this people by saying we didn't get a positive decision. No problem, you're all here. You'll see tomorrow, everyone will congratulate us. What do we have to say now - excuse me, Mr Samardzic says something is wrong? Isn't that decision of yours exactly in line with what we think it is? Should we get that date back? It's best to say, we don't accept. Let me tell you one thing. These are very serious questions that we should not ask such questions about. I have not thought of resigning because of the greatest success in the history of a Serbian government since 1990. For anything else you can ask for responsibility, but for this you should at least have respect, given the weight of the problems we faced in all these conversations. When it comes to terms, I said earlier that Van Rompei had informed me that a conclusion would be reached tomorrow saying that the European Council had decided to open accession negotiations with Serbia. What does that mean? The second sentence – The First Intergovernmental Conference will be held at the latest in January 2014. Third sentence - A framework for the GAK negotiations will be adopted before that, namely the General Affairs Council and confirmed by the European Council at a regular session on enlargement in December. What does that mean, judge for yourself. It means that Serbia has received the opening of negotiations, that there are no new sessions on the negotiations, that there is only the adoption of a negotiating framework, which has been for every other country. A negotiating framework can stop anyone. It's adopted at the GAK Consensus. Any state can stop it, but it doesn't matter. You don't think we're happy to get a date? We only express the satisfaction that Serbia is in a position to move forward. This is just the end of one difficult and painful beginning. Why don't they believe us? Among other things, they don't trust us because many previous governments lied, that they accepted agreements, and then they didn't apply them. That's why we have to be honest with our people. You don't have to lie to him. The date is not a spectacular historical thing. The historical thing is that – the path to the EU, because our people deserve to live like all other normal worlds. Besides, we don't have another union. If you don't have a choice, then I don't understand why we should be... It turns out that Croats, Czechs, Poles are so stupid that they are EU members, and we are the smartest in the world and we propose -- well, we will survive on our own. I wish we could, but we can't, and we can't fight the whole world. That's why we need to save the situation we're in. We will not sell and issue Kosovo because it is now in one specific status, which was established since 1999, but we cannot remain tied to the problem for another 100 years. Our GDP is now 65% compared to 1989. Does it take another 20 years to deal with it? We won't have, believe me, what to do. I'm telling you once again, I'm sorry for reacting so much, but I thought it was so brazen and rude of you to say that I should resign because we're going to open accession negotiations. I think it's, uh, maybe it's right on your side, but not because we didn't... You should ask me to resign as we go to the EU. I think that's the real question on your part, and this second question is malicious, and that's why I said it was funny, because it doesn't deserve any answer, and I'll be proud in my history, in Serbia's history and in my personal history on tomorrow, when Serbia and this government earned and got the date and opened accession negotiations for Serbia's EU membership. It will remain recorded in Serbia's history. You can't resign for that. No confessions are received, but it should be made clear that it is a quality for our people and for our country. Besides, if you could have gotten it in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, it would have been direct television broadcasts day and night. You had the slogan of your time "It's Doable." Yes, it's doable, but when we're in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19566	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19567	Mr. Prime Minister, I listened very carefully when you read that paper that came to you from Herman Van Rompei. Read it again. You don't have a date at any of the three points. Look, it's not the date of our problem. We've always been against dates. That's what you remember. That's your problem. You were talking about the June 28th date on Vidovdan. You wanted to start a new history of Serbia and the memory of Vidovdan, to forget that Vidovdan, and to begin the annual marking of your Vidovdan. So, you were talking about the date, not us, and you didn't get it. It's just a question. You can say whatever you want. You can go back as far as you want. You can fake that past, at least when it comes to the DSS. Every time we negotiated, when we came to the Kosovo topic, we said – sorry, Serbia can, but only the territorially integrated Serbia, the sovereign Serbia. The easiest thing is to get or not get a date and run that game with them and tap your shoulders, as they always do if you hand over Kosovo. There's a whole secret and you know it very well. It's nothing complicated. Tomorrow everyone will commend you. You will be the European man of the day, the beauty of the day. You know that movie when it was giving. I don't care about that, but it's those guys from the foxes and the ravens and nothing else. Western policy is very full and full of experience dealing with tribes and their heads. That's what we're worried about. It is not our problem that they deceive us, it is our problem that you deceive us, i.e. You want the people to deceive, just to get those patsies on their shoulders and smiles. Don't listen to that PR. Tomorrow is a bad day for Serbia, but it might be worse if it got a date, but it didn't get a date and you have to explain it. Opening negotiations is a new word you use. Why didn't you say that earlier, that the 28th decision to open negotiations would be made? Well, with them, what they don't want to do is the process, as well as the way into the EU. We're on our way to the EU. There's no point, Mr. Dacic. We won't become a member. Never. Two days ago, the Dutch Foreign Minister had an interview for Politics. He said - Holland would put an end to it. Germany will put an end to it. In this declaration of Bundestag, Mr. Prime Minister, you have new conditions if you ever open negotiations. You have four new conditions. I can tell you what the new conditions are. So you must legally commit an agreement with Kosovo to sign.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19568	Excuse me, Mr. Samardzic, you've been through almost a minute since your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19569	I can give you the other three, but it doesn't matter. You'll have the conditions again, you'll have the perpetum of the mobile, and you'll be a European man of the year all the time. If that's your goal, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19570	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. The word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Jovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19571	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I will refer the issue to the Prime Minister, Mr Dacic. We all know that during the long and difficult negotiations as chief negotiator and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, with senior EU officials and representatives of the provisional self-government in Pristina, you have done everything possible under the circumstances to ensure peace, security and prosperity for all citizens of our country and to enable Serbia to reintegration into the European society of peoples and states. We are aware that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is at the helm of which you have made difficult but also compromise and constructive decisions that are in the best interests of the entire population of all the citizens of our country. I am pleased to stress that most of our MPs and MPs in the Serbian Parliament have also expressed support for such a pro-European and peaceful course of the Serbian government. Since these days, which are crucial for Serbia's European and reform future, have also led an intensive diplomatic campaign abroad to start negotiations on the accession of our country, I ask you to brief us and the citizens of our country who are specific challenges and concrete activities that Serbia will face in the next six months to achieve two goals, to start official negotiations with the EU on our future membership and to implement a normalisation agreement with Pristina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19572	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19573	As I said earlier, what will wait for us in the coming months will be the continuation of our internal reforms and the implementation of what is agreed in Brussels. When it comes to the procedure itself, I also spoke earlier, we expect the negotiating platform, the basis for negotiations that the EU will have towards Serbia, to be completed in the coming months. Also to perform screening and then to declare the GAC, or the EU General Affairs Committee on the text of the platform, that the Council is confirmed and that an intergovernmental conference is scheduled afterwards. Then chapters are opened and chapters are negotiated and we must appoint negotiators and see which parts of our legislation are not in line with the European Maki. However, the greatest attention will certainly be kept on the Kosovo issue. That's the point, and we need to face it and be aware of it. The European-level fights are being fought from hour to hour. Tomorrow, the EU Council is on this topic. As you know, no decision has been made yet. We also need to take care of our statements that are coming. That is why some of the statements you mentioned were not good, such as a statement on local elections because we are negotiating local elections, and on the other hand we are making a statement that Serbia will not participate in local elections. They are also not good at these statements that attack certain countries, because it creates feedback. We haven't come to the vote yet. What I just pointed out is something that was arranged. Which has been discussed, but there may be some pressures on the side, that the formulations are changing. That's why it's very important that we have this unique approach. We have already begun to argue as if we had received a decision, and it is not the same when the decision says no later in January and at the earliest in January. It is not the same when it writes what the European Council is doing, whether it confirms the EU's negotiating platform or assesses whether Serbia has satisfied the implementation of the agreement. There are a lot of things that I certainly don't know what's gonna happen in the next six months, but it's not a process that you can say is what happens then. That's why we have to be careful. The highest raise will be the implementation of the Brussels Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19574	The word has a national emissary, Vesna Jovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19575	I thank you for the president's reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19576	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19577	I will ask a few questions to the Prime Minister, Mr Dacic and Minister Obradovic, and the honourable fellow MPs. We are witnessing that there has been an increase in all forms of criminal acts in Serbia, heavy robbery, armed robbery, murder, and that this is most likely due to the decision your authority made, that 4,000 criminals and people are released early on in prison terms. My question to you is, is there a causal link in this case, and is anyone in this country convicted of the crime of corruption and bribery or income, except for the man who has been abolized recently by the President of the Republic? This led to the general uncertainty of Serbian citizens. At the same time, you are the police minister, and today we had a situation in Novi Sad that you are familiar with, that the director of a public enterprise that is otherwise from your ruling coalition in Novi Sad, Mr. Bocan, was dropped a bomb under an official car in the middle of the day, in the middle of the day, in the middle of the day in Novi Sad. In a town you ministers and Prime Minister Dacic know, unfortunately, there are no police officers for over three years. We think it would be a good idea for you to tell us today who the drug lords who lined up the top of the police force are, and do you, as former interior minister and current and Mr. Veljovic, as former police director and current? As for the situation we have been having for days with a catastrophic affair related to the tests for small graduation, the fascinating tenacity of Minister Obradovic and the frequency that you repeat there is no basis. What we have remembered from the DS is that you said, that the Ministry of Education is not and cannot be responsible for this situation. As last time we showed you copies of the Serbian tests and proved that the test was unfortunately irregular, so we're asking you about your decision that you signed? Otherwise, this decision is from March 31st this year. In that decision under point 5), Minister Obradovic, you who say you are not responsible, say – to conduct competitions in accordance with the law, registration rules, instructions for implementing regulations, etc., are responsible for the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. So you signed that responsibility. (President: Time) I am interested in whether these and similar problems in our school, which unfortunately is in a catastrophic state, can cause you and Prime Minister Dacic to feel that some of the moves, which I see are being encouraged by the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19578	Do any of the members of the government want to respond? The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19579	This is primarily a matter for the minister of justice. I have no record of whether or not those who are amnesty returnees in committing crimes. Amnesty is not usually a new category, it has been present several times in our 20-year history. Amnesty used to be about war events. There used to be general amnesty, but it mainly related to elections or new authorities, or a new president, or something that was a matter of forgiveness, such as the amnesty for Albanians from Kosovo, amnesty for southern Serbia, etc. I don't know how effective that is. There are some who have been amnesty, and they have committed crimes. Let me tell you, I'm sure there are, it happens many times that those who are in prison, when they get out on leave, commit a crime on weekends and get arrested again. In any case, that question should be analysed. And who the President of the Republic meant, that's a question for him, of course, when it comes to the police. When it comes to these other questions, everyone has to answer for what he's guilty of. There's no dilemma. That's what I said at the beginning, if there's a responsibility, a particular responsibility of any minister, everyone has to answer. On the other hand, it is also a criminal responsibility where it is necessary to determine how it was done. Given that the person who was detained was saying that she did it last year, I'm sure there was a part of your responsibility from your party, since at the time the director was your man. If you want to insist on responsibilities, then you should go a little deeper on that logic. I'm not defending anyone. If Zarko is guilty, he'll be changed. If he considers it morally necessary to resign politically, he will. In this case, I didn't determine who stole those tests. That's what the police did. It was established where it happened. It happened where it was printed. That's why we need to come up with that whole system again so that the kids don't get damaged. Someone may resign, but we've solved the essence of the problem. We need to solve the essence of this problem. That's what I really stand for. And from which the party is a minister, it was the same when there was a problem with milk, and I have also advocated myself in principle and I will always defend every minister I consider to have no concrete responsibility. If there are bad actions and concrete responsibilities, then that's the second question. Anyway, I'm glad the police did that part of the job on their own. I didn't interfere at all. Director Veljovic sent me information on how it happened. Those tests were found. Is there any more? Surely there is. If they are present at the Ministry of Education, it is certain that people should be arrested and certain political measures and political responsibilities taken. Now I've entered this second topic, and I wanted to answer the first question more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19580	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19581	The interesting question and interpretation of the issue is the way you interpret, Mr. Stefanovic, the question of responsibility. The question is whether a single government would remain for more than a month for the entire twenty-something years of the multi-party system of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to general or concrete responsibility, I note that in relation to the political moment and place and, above all, the political interest, that category is interpreted as to whom it suits. I have mentioned it many times, and now I will – the Ministry of Education has neither printed nor distributed nor prepared tests. Thanks to the MUP, a person who stole and forged tests was found. That person isn't alone. Apparently, there are more people in that chain who have distributed tests for property or other use. Now one logical question is asked – did the Ministry of Education in relation to the theft committed by another outside the Ministry of Education do all it takes to protect the regularity of the process of small graduation and that children are not in any way brought into an unrealistic position? I'm saying they are. That's what the waist says. You have the right to your position and your claim, and that's something that belongs to you both by place and residence in this esteemed home, but I'm telling you what the Ministry can and can't do and what it did and what it didn't do. It's interesting to me, I'm telling you that I've listened to you in the past few days, that since you've had the general story of stealing a little graduation test on another topic, it doesn't matter anymore – when the police found out who stole the tests, that topic is no longer interesting. It's no longer about who stole and why he stole, but now let's see what else. As we solve one problem at a time, a new and new question arises. Then the man realizes that it's not the essence of whether a small graduation was conducted, whether the children were enrolled. You need a political sacrifice. It's a good thing you started that initiative, because the whole story finally got one political dimension, because it has a political dimension from the beginning. The Prime Minister mentioned one aspect that remains somehow in the other plan, since you're always talking about last year. If you had any knowledge that something was problematic last year, why didn't you say so? Or you weren't interested in it at the time because we were with you in the government, so you weren't comfortable being mentioned then. If you had any information, why didn't you notify the M.O.P.? Or maybe because the Director of the Official Messenger was then a member of the DS, so maybe it could determine his direct responsibility. What was the problem? I expect you to participate in this investigation until the end and answer the questions - where did you get the tests that were suddenly forged? That'll be interesting to hear, how does it get to the MP and how does he get these tests that were forged? Yeah, and those are the questions to be answered. It's a question that can be asked on my part and by the public. Or do you just think it should be an instrumental part of the question to the Ministry and to me personally? You see it your way, it's your right. I'm telling you, all we could do was do. Everything we couldn't do is not part of our options and it wasn't up to us. We just couldn't. The tests were stolen elsewhere by the people who committed the crime. That's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19582	Mr. Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19583	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister has told us one thing that is truly deeply worrying, knowing that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice told us that, even though he gave us official paper, the issue of amnesty cannot be determined by the Ministry of Justice but only by the Ministry of the Interior. It is another question of the effect of amnesty on committing crimes and on returnees. That's another proof of what kind of ping-pong you play in government, and with all of us, unfortunately. It would be good, when you said you should ask President Nikolic for that serious accusation he made on a police landing in Novi Sad, you could have asked him immediately. You were standing next to him and I don't know what was stopping you. You could have said – President Nikolic, did you mean me and Veljovic or someone else? I think it's very important to say here that the man who planted the bomb today, Mr. Bocan, is suspected by the SNS of stealing elections in the local elections in Novi Sad, and now there's a criminal record. He is now in power with the SNS in Novi Sad and is one of a number of catastrophic personnel set up in Novi Sad. That's not the point, it's someone who put a bomb in front of a bar today at 10.00 a.m. in front of a coffee shop under an official car, and we don't have a police chief in Novi Sad for three years. I think it's only fair that you give a more precise answer to what the police are going to do with whom you once, you say, you have connections, and sometimes you have nothing to do with this. Otherwise, if he's not in a position of police, then I'm asking you as prime minister to fire the police minister, since he obviously doesn't know how to do his job. What Minister Obradovic does not understand is that there is a difference between responsibility and guilt. You, as Minister of Education, are a responsible person. You signed the paper, March 31st, that you were responsible. Your ministry and you personally signed along with Mr. Kostic. Don't talk about the political context, because the fact that you're a minister is a purely political context. You as a minister are a political being and a political function is a minister of education. It's normal that we're trying to prove, not whether the printer or the printer, as it's called, stole the tests, but trying to prove that you've made 70,000 children and their parents into so much trouble. You, as Minister of Education, are responsible and you know very well, Minister Obradovic, that you must resign. You know you're not going to make it into a new government and you know you're not going through a reconstruction. Don't joke. Please don't tell us about last year and the last time you told us the police last year and the last year didn't find anything. You told us. We don't all have chicken memory. Otherwise, we're ready to cooperate with the investigative authorities, as always. Let me tell you, I'm so scared of your words, my pants are shaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19584	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19585	I don't know why you're nervous when I mentioned the Ministry of the Interior or the investigative authorities will talk to you. You showed the Serbian Parliament and the whole public that you have documents that are forgeries. Why would you be upset about that, if everything's okay? All you have to do is explain where you fake it and everything's gonna be okay. Just one more thing, it was found at the Office for Quality Assessment that tasks were badly done. Just so you know, on that fake, the tasks are badly done. Thank you for your concern for my political health. Since you didn't decide when I was elected to this place, you won't even decide on the length of my work. You won't. (The People's MPs are getting it, from the scene. He did, but then he was a different attitude, which says something else. That's the point of the whole story. That alleged concern for the general interest and general goals, I've listened many times to it from you. Many times in different situations you talk about general goals when concrete questions come, then you just look at your own interest. It's acceptable to me, but I have a duty to say something about it. I'm not the one who put the kids in an awkward situation, I'm the one who stole the tests and the people who distributed the test. It's an important substitute for thesis, Mr. Stefanovic. An essential replacement of thesis. Now it turns out that we from the Ministry of Education are someone who took part in it. If it doesn't matter who stole the tests, then that's what needs to be said, but I think it's important. This is the first time this has happened in recent history, as the issue of last year has constantly been potentiated. In a congregation discussion, your colleagues mentioned last year. I may have misunderstood you, but your fellow MPs also spoke about last year and we know what happened last year. It's true, I said we got an official M.O.P. report that it's not possible to determine who's guilty and that the prosecution is suspending the investigation. It's my turn to say that, since you and your colleagues have been potent last year, then it's my turn to tell the public the same thing. We in the Ministry have found the best solution to the theft, and the children will not be disproved and we will respect their wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19586	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19587	I think, although this may even have an interesting form of this debate to someone, the situation is extremely serious and dramatic. We're not excited at all, and I'm the least excited about the minister being enlightened by the police in some procedure that's normal and based on the law. Where do you say the MP is from, forgeries? What kind of forgeries when your Ministry confirmed authenticity? Your ministry, Minister Obradovic, has confirmed that the copies of the tests we gave you, which your ministry did not want to receive before that. Tell me until the end of the information. The MPs were forced to ask you for authenticity, not you personally, but it was confirmed authenticity. What forgeries? Are you insinuating that a group of MPs were involved in crime, that we were stealing tests together with Lusic, that we were breaking into print shops without everyone else's fault. You may not be guilty, and I'm sure it's not your fault, but you're responsible, and as a responsible person, you have to bear the consequences, even rhyme. That's how it works. Now, imagine, dear colleagues, we're guilty of being contacted by Laufer, they know these across, that there are tests and they're being sold on the street. Out of the desire to help the process, to tell you whether or not it's true that these tests are like that, I would believe you now, but from your institution it's authentic. So, if it wasn't authentic, why were you canceling your exam? Why do all the kids go based on high school success? Why don't they just go back to math and end the story? So something wasn't right. Then why doesn't Liusic resign? Here, you won't, but make him resign. The man turns out to be the most guilty, and the volume of national consciousness. Imagine that. Be serious. Just because the Prime Minister knows how to breathe air hard in the O.R. doesn't mean he's so strong. You know, a lot of people were strong, so they fell into the dust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19588	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to refer one question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Ministry of Interior. It is said that we are witnesses, back a few months, of a famous affair that moved around the aflatoxin, which is in the milk. We claimed it was something else. The competent inspection services have finally found that something else is at stake, not what the province's agriculture secretary Mr Jesic is saying. The authorities have found that there are no 150,000 tonnes missing from the stock reserves, which is wheat, which is corn, or, to translate in a slightly different way, in a slightly different manner of expression, which would be on the road, which means that they are on the road, they are on the road from Subotica to Presevo, or to translate into the amount of money – 3,750,000 thousand, and to make the matter even worse, the state paid 37,500,000 dinars of silos in which the wheat and corn did not exist. So, one smoke. It gives me the right to have a reasonable doubt that between an affair that is related to aflatoxin and a lack of stock reserves, these two affairs are causally linked. I wanted to refer the question to the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister, but since he's not here, I hope he answers in writing. Have the members of the MUP started pre-examination actions to determine individual responsibility and criminality for those who have made the deficit? I grew up at a time when even the manager at the usual store was responding if there was a shortage, so I expect that when one of these things is so serious, someone's right for this. You know what the purpose of the stock reserve is. God forbid we had some sort of elemental accident or some other monster, so we could feed the citizens of Serbia because someone consciously put money in their pockets and steal from those same citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19590	Since the Prime Minister left for a moment, does anyone else want to answer? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19591	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Prime Minister has kindly apologized to me for having to leave for a few minutes. He talked about having important talks about what is said in Serbia today, and I have to say that I have an understanding of that. I'm going to formally refer some questions to him and hopefully there will be an opportunity to answer them at the next day, and I'm going to ask some of the other ministers a few things. First, I have to express great dissatisfaction with the fact that today there is neither the first Deputy Prime Minister nor the Deputy Prime Minister here, so in this situation, when the prime minister is at least a few minutes away from attending the session, there is actually no one who would be passively legitimate to ask these questions, but let's try. My first question for the government, I hope the Prime Minister will answer, is -- who is responsible for the fact that the budget deficit at the end of this year will be around 180 billion by optimistic estimates of the government shown in budget rebalancing, not something above 120 billion, how much was foreseen by the original text of the budget? There's another question. I see that everyone has agreed to this intervention of the Members of the Single Serbia and that everyone is ready to fight the white plague, and I have a part of the rebalancing that is called – the improvement of the work of women's health care services in the area of protection of reproductive health and family planning. I need to read you the amount you've foreseen in the budget rebalancing -- 10 million dinars. I'd say it's about 8,500 euros today. So, does the Prime Minister, does the Government think that based on such numbers, it will be able to achieve any of those objectives, expressed in this way, as New Serbia's MPs have said, that there are as many or as many of us as possible in any other interpretation as possible to be ready for both the EU market and that fight in the EU, if that is what you want? On the third question, I think that Minister Obradovic can answer in part. I'm shocked by your discussion where you're transferring each other that the Director of the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger" was from one party last time, and now from another party. I remind all ministers in the government and ask you to give me an answer, say you, Mr. Obradovic, and may Minister Mihajlović, how is it possible today that someone who is a political party official is even the director of a public enterprise? It's illegal under the law. The second question is whether public competitions for directors in all 700 public enterprises in Serbia will be launched by 30 June, as explicitly stated in the text of the Law on Public Enterprises? If you won't call, we'll go to law enforcement. The Liberal Democratic Party is the author of the amendment. We were careful when we wrote the amendment and it's absolutely impossible to interpret that it only goes to the selection of directors who are in V.D. status.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19592	Does Minister Obradovic or Minister Mihajlovic want to answer this? Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19593	I'll answer this section regarding the director. As you know, a competition has been launched for the appointment of the Director-General of the EPS Public Enterprise, as well as the Public Enterprise for the underground exploitation of coal "Resavica". For the Director-General of EPS, the competition shall be valid until 3 July, i.e. 15 days. I must say that for now, the government has only two applications for such a significant place, which is, given all previous letters, after all, as well as all the previous stories we had about the appointment of the CEO of the EPS, for me, a pity. I sincerely hope and again today to say and pray to all those who are professional, experienced and have good biographies to report to that competition. That applies, of course, to the underground exploitation of coal "Resavica". As for other energy companies, we have received an interpretation from the Government Secretariat that those appointed as CEOs, while their mandate applies, do not have to call a competition for them. If you're asking me, I don't mind having it signed up for anything, but I'm telling you that as a member of the government, as a minister of such an interpretation I've won. Of course, we also have a change of boards of directors. If we didn't say that the rules had been late longer, etc., that all this was much longer than it was supposed to be, we were late and we were transferring the boards of directors to the boards of directors, but I deeply believe that in the next ten days we would already have the final boards of public enterprises. That's how much I could answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19594	Okay, well, at least it's clear, we're going to run court proceedings for all 700 companies in Serbia, so we're going to see who was right in the end. Thank you for that personal at least definition of how you view the question of calling a competition. I'll try to answer what I think so few people are applying for. Because there is no confidence that the competition will be objective, that the electoral commission, or the competition commission, will work completely objectively, that there will be no political pressures, and I can also give you examples. I think that when someone sees what it looks like, how it behaves, what education it is, how it is run by that company, the director of the Serbian Railway Company, that no serious expert in this country seems like a serious chance of professionally applying. The second question is, how are you going to reward these people? Unfortunately, this unacceptable principle has been established that they have the right to some kind of bonuses, those directors whose companies earn profits, and those who have lost that right do not, although we all know that it is sometimes a much greater success to reduce the enormous loss that exists in a company, but, for example, make a profit at Belgrade Airport, which is a monopoly, which, of course, will always or almost always make a profit, although it does not have to be so. I've got some questions. Mr. Ilic, it seems to me that you are the most vengeful person here, given some previous years that you mentioned yourself, so answer my question whether they will collect tolls in Serbia, and because of the criminal behavior of the "Road of Serbia" who have refused to pay VAT for years? Now, when they are finally forced to do so, they announce toll collection, which is 20%, which is huge money for Serbian citizens. It will have, if it happens, catastrophic consequences. The second question is for Minister Bačević. On the basis of what government act did you negotiate with representatives of the Russian Federation that they accept the obligation to finance the construction of the entire South Stream on Serbia's territory? Are you aware, Mr. Bacevic, what does that mean? How many years will it be charged from a transit tax to the Russian side if we agree to such an arrangement and why do you view this country as a social case that cannot in some way raise money and co-investor in the project, but rather beg for Moscow? What analysis has been available to you or what analysis have you prepared to enter these matters? What makes you think it's a bad job to, say, be in charge under commercial conditions, finance construction, and then charge out of taxis in the coming years? You know why I ask you this? Because the same thing that happened with the mine will happen, you will make an arrangement where it will write to the cost of the project and never this country will charge the dinar from a transit tax from Russia. That's what we're afraid of. Half the government laughs at you when you say you were personally for a bigger ore rent. I'm sure you know that, so at least take care when you make such comments in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19595	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19596	I'm just going to say something about this part about the appointment of the director. I totally agree that there is no trust, but the fact that there is no trust, there is no trust because for the past 12 years, of course, we haven't spoken since 2000, the directors of public enterprises have been putting themselves in every way possible, just not in that natural way called the competition. It was in 2001, but then the government formed a commission, and should I remind myself that it was in that commission that people who were leading up to a few days ago, say, at FTN. So they elected then Director General in 2001, Ljubomir Geric, etc. So it's clear that there's no trust, but what I'm up for, and I'm going to do my best, is that all the biographies that come to this EPS competition or underground coal exploitation will all be public. Therefore, the public will know who answered, what kind of biographies, what experience these people were and what they were coming to talk about, and the Ministry of Energy will have one member of that commission, proposed that they could do in these companies. I think it's the most transparent possible. Perhaps in the time ahead there will be more trust and perhaps there will be more interest in making more applications. When I got information today that there were only two applications, I think it was a shame. That's why we have to do everything we can to make more applications. The more applications and more quality people, the better the director.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19597	The word is made by Minister Bacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19598	As far as "South Stream" is concerned, you know that a spatial plan has been done for the specific purpose of this "South Stream" and that it is now talking to the Russian side to expand the project and that the whole of Serbia is covered by a spatial plan of a specific purpose, that one leg of that "South Stream" should move towards the border with Macedonia, and the other one towards Montenegro, if Montenegro shows interest as it is. As far as the talks on the project are concerned, they were just conversations. Nothing's signed. There is a proposal and the Russian side's offer that due to the poor financial situation in our country, due to problems in the budget, etc., poor conditions in the credit market, they offered, none of it is agreed, an offer from the Russian side exists that they finance this project that has now been adopted as a whole, and that Serbia would repay through a transit tax, which it would not collect, rather cover the cost of implementing the project, which, if I recall correctly, is around 920m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19599	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19600	You asked about the toll. In previous governments, there was a view that there was no VAT charge on toll, and that worked for years. Lately, the interpretation has arrived that VAT must be charged completely for tolls for the following years which has not been charged since it was introduced. However, due to the state of travel firms, a compromise has been found between the finance ministry and the "Serb Road" not to charge retroactive VAT for the toll, but since July 1st to charge VAT to go to the budget and so much, for VAT value, to increase tolls on all payment ramps. It's one agreement that has been reached and I don't think the government has yet come to terms with it, and that's a proposal from the resolution ministry and road companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19601	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19602	Okay, we finally got confirmation, as of July 1st, tolls in Serbia will be more expensive by 20%. Citizens and businesses in Serbia will pay the price of the fact that the law has been violated for years. That is why, Mrs. Mihajlovic, there is no such trust, since what is, for example, allowed "The Ways of Serbia", that they do not pay VAT for years, is not allowed for any other taxpayer or vast majority of the taxpayers in Serbia, especially those who come from the sphere of private economy. That's why this is an unsettled country. That's why you have a million or not knowing how many illegal objects or objects in the legalization process. That's why Mr. Bačević is allowed to enter these jobs in such an easy way. You can't answer me again, maybe on another occasion. What's your personal attitude, Mr. Bacevic? Is it worth it, is 920m-euro investment worth getting into such an arrangement, or is it better to put the country in charge? As they suggested it to you on the Russian side, you didn't just look at them like that, did you? I hope you had some kind of attitude. I don't think that's the way that this proposal happened. Secondly, I don't understand why bad conditions are on the borrowing market. They're great conditions, rarely when they were better. You and the previous governments owed this country, on interest that would be two, two, and a half, three times larger than those that are now on the market, so nothing bothers you. There are interest rates that are over ten, eleven percent, for example, for JAT, I mean for "Serbiagas" etc. They pay 25m euros in mines less through this other firm. Divide it or multiply it, get to 900, so let's try to make a deal on that ground, not take another thing and another resource. I'm sorry I got the answer that tolls would come up. Of course, the country's key problems are currently from the economic field. The Prime Minister's not here, he couldn't answer any of them. I always support the fact that this should be a society of knowledge and therefore I am using this opportunity to congratulate, if I am not mistaken, and the President of Parliament, Mr Stefanovic, who today, if I understand correctly, acquired a doctorate from economic sciences at Megatrend University. I believe that in the future, we may be able to solve economic problems more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19603	Thank you very much, Mr. Guric. That's very kind of you. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19604	Dear President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like on behalf of the SPS to ask the question of the Minister of Education, and at the same time to make certain views concerning the responsibilities that are being respected here and to seek when it comes to tests. So when we talk about the category of responsibility, responsibility can be sought even if it does not seem or seems to be on a specific issue. So, if we look at this problem like that, let's see what Minister Obradovic did to make this failure happen, or what he didn't do. It could be hard to prove that by his actions or inaction, there was such a huge failure that, unfortunately, it is a great shame for the whole public, for the whole society, for our country. I don't think anyone can be glad it happened. Is asking for resignation actually solving the essence of the problem that exists here? Does he want to solve a problem here that would warn the likes of the future and contribute to the return to our reality of the legal value that we should fight for? Or is this about the daily political need to destabilise the government at the moment and its ministers, at the moment when we have very important tasks and topics on the agenda that are crucial to our country's future. So such responsibility is required by some MPs without cover and, I would say, without the moral credibility of those who seek it. Without moral credibility, because, by destroying the once previous 90-year regime, it was said that the new democratic government would execute Serbia's moral, spiritual and material rebirth, which unfortunately did not happen at all. On the contrary, there's been a sunfare in many areas and it's been ten, it's been twelve, thirteen years, and nothing's been done, but we've gone backwards. I want to say without any indignation and tendency and quite realistically, we all made a little contribution to what today's system of values is, which is consciousness and culture today in Serbia. No one can be amnested to the end of it. We're all carrying part of the responsibility. Someone smaller, and someone more, if we're to be realistic and honest about it. Can we justify the parents who and their consciousness who bought the tests on the street to make their children better at the exam? Can we justify those who persuaded the state not to pay bills for spent electricity? Is it politically correct and morally necessary to laminate in an attack on the minister over the officer who stole or took the tests? I'll keep going. This is enough to start with for the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19605	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19606	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. I'd like to say that with all this going on, stealing tests and all the problems we've had in conducting a small graduation, we've noticed that absolutely things have to change in the future, the future for the sake of knowledge. Why? We inherited a system that meant carrying out small graduations in such a way that students received tasks from Serbian, or native language, from mathematics from the collection of tasks available to them several months before the day of their small graduation, somewhere in late January, the graduation took place in June. For years back, the passing of small graduations was that from the collection of tasks, meaning solved tasks, a number of tasks that were already in the collection were just, let me say, days to solve students. The profession noted that students did not try very hard to understand and understand the purpose of the task, the way it was solved, but they tried harder to remember which page was the task and the photographic memory to try to answer that, to pass on the way it was solved. The profession estimated that such a system should be changed. Years back we increased the number of unknown tasks and this year 75% of the tasks were on the test of unknowns and 25% relatively well known, which in translation means that these 25% of the tasks were changed only or part of the content or figures, given the character of the test. It is indisputable that we must learn appropriate lessons from this. I've already told the public that too much time is being spent on printing tests, that a large number of people are involved. The very fact that the test was stolen in the printer says that this link was a weak link, that maybe you should think about being one test that would be shared just before the day of testing, for safety. Of course, you must not know in advance where the tests will be printed. We'll consider some other options if there's an opportunity for the test to be fully protected and implemented in a way that provides absolutely, to be one indicator of knowledge to children. What the profession said was that a small graduation should remain as a way of verifying knowledge, because it was introduced many years ago because we had a large production of Vukovars and excellent students and then it couldn't be objectively determined, or there was a large number of students with the same grades and then the profession estimated that it would be good to have a small graduation. Little prom isn't our product. It has been applied in some other countries, and we will have to change many things about preparing for small graduation, and the profession will, of course, give its word when it comes to tasks. We've been trying over the past few years to get our students and we've been preparing for small graduations over the years, and the kids have obviously been satisfied, but obviously, they haven't been able to do that in the course of their little graduation, and what happened is, to be honest, it's a good science for us to change things in the organization of small graduation itself. I apologize both to the parents and children who were brought into the situation that because of the theft, I stress the theft of the crime committed by one person and who later with other persons, and this will show the investigation when it is over, participated in the distribution and sale of stolen and forged tests all of us into one unpleasant situation and that we must ask the answer to the question of how to solve this issue of small graduation without anyone being in any way damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19607	National MP Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19608	So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers, are concerned that in the political views of individual parliamentary groups we have regrets or in fact fear of it or even better say concerns about what will happen to the officer who carried out the tests? Is that the point of the problem? And may that suggest that there may be some accomplices, or there may be some orderers of such an unkind event. Of course, I don't want to calculate and deal with it now, but it simply can't be a topic in the political debate and what happened to us, and there's been a great evil and a great tribulation that can't be loved by anyone, no matter who's in power. Secondly, when we talk about the minister and the attacks on him, and the same parliamentary groups that are attacking him today were heartily defending him and praising him in defending what was his work and submitting legal proposals from 2008 to 2012. Mr. Minister, is this move that you have made in the sense that during the rankings you are not taking into account the results obtained from the Serbian language and mathematics due to the break-in of these tests, is this a good move and the only possible move that has been made? I think it is, but I'm also interested in your opinion for what is the defence interest of students in respect of their work, learning, justice to defend their dignity, and in terms of respecting only work as the only criterion for further progress and it's very important for children to feel it, because that direction and that direction should move on through life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19609	Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19610	Mr. Mihajlovic, I have already said that I think that the decision of the Republic Commission to conduct the final exam is a good decision in the current situation and that it allows children not to be damaged in any way, and that the success they have had in the present period is the basis for determining their place on the ranking lists, of course, taking into account the wishes they will have, which they have shown in the past two days of enrolment in high school.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19611	Ambassador Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19612	On behalf of the SPS, I would like to point out that we should have more honesty in what we are making political views and certain measures, regardless of what we are fighting here, but which must in some way be honest and framed in what is right, in what is true. In other words, we have to fight for the truth. So in the past, we've had an X time to search for the resignations of many ministers back in the '90s and after the '90s. I don't think any government, no minister would put together six months if we went to that system to look for responsibility for everything and everything, which doesn't mean we shouldn't be dealing with this issue like this right now. This question should be addressed in an adequate, real way that will make the result of it never happen to us again. That goes for the tests, that goes for the milk, that goes for the accidents that happened in the police, that goes for the accidents that happened at the Ministry of Defense and for all the other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19613	Thank you. National MP Miodrag Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19614	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a few questions. My first question is for Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, she is unfortunately not there, but the question concerns the already mentioned cancerous matter called aflatoxin and the question is – why are we still silent about all this when we know that the most common causes of mortality in our country are chronic so-called. not infectious diseases, cardio-vascular diseases and other so-called malignancies, or carcinomas. So why keep quiet about this and why do children still drink milk without knowing how to use milk? Even some commercials were made, you were witnesses to see on the street, commercials where it says – drinking milk, milk is healthy. Why is it that if it's healthy it's not down to 0.05 as promised? It is a standard that binds us and we have heard that we are all looking forward to negotiations with the EU, but that is exactly the level that the EU prescribes. You won't find 0.5 levels of aflatoxin in milk. On the other hand, we haven't seen a controlled level of aflatoxin in milk in a long time, and we haven't seen a list where you can clearly see which milk is actually healthy and which milk is not healthy. You mustn't forget, this isn't what someone said – everything and everything, it's about children's health and it's about one so-called. The cumulative effect. This cumulative effect is, in fact, that the damage increases as much as aflatoskin is added to the milk over time. That word of cumulative refers to my next question. Do you think Mr Obradovic's responsibility, the minister of education, is based only on a small graduation? This is a cumulative responsibility. I don't need to remind you of what's happened in the last five years, which we've had any failures or affairs in that ministry. Just remember what was in the founding books that were the definition of one term female, where links of suspicious websites and calls for gambling could be found. Isn't that a cumulatively harmful effect for textbooks. Mr. Minister, you said that we had a great time at the PIZA test and I disagree, and the certificate for that is also your graduation test, which is much worse than it was last year. On the other hand, Serbia is threatening to rule out this system and it is the largest international research in the field of education, because your ministry is late to engage in the current cycle. I'll tell you something else, you're late for high school reform, you're a long time late. Remember that you were one of the initiators that in a version of the education strategy, to insert a part, that part of the state's money, intended for higher education, landed at private universities, you must remember all that. Remember, you're late for college reform, 'cause that's where it stops halfway.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19615	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19616	I must tell you, Mr Stojkovic, I would ask you, the next time you want to ask similar questions, ask some questions with your colleagues, how things stand, how you do yourself, because that's how you violate your reputation as a scientist and show that you may be a good scientist, but a politician with modest characteristics. Why? Slowly, slowly, the thesis on the education strategy and on the alleged financing of private universities is the the thesis that is easy to check with professors. Ivan Ivić and Prof. Matejic authorities. Professor Vlasta Matejic is the president of the European Movement in Serbia and ask the two of them, did this minister in any way interfere with the strategy, did he suggest anything, especially something like that? For you, this thesis was promoted by Professor Domazette, Professor Domazette, member of the DS, and when that thesis was not accepted in the working group, he left work on making a strategy. Ask around, and after that, go ahead, ask me if I took part in it and in what way. I am obliged to inform you, Mr Stojkovic, and the other MPs, that when it comes to books that can be read, it is about women's persons, that it is about the book "Gramatology", the publisher "School Plus" and that it is not about the textbook, but about the manual, and that publishers often publish additional teaching tools, and it is about parents and educational workers to buy or not buy what the market offers. The book mentioned, Mr Stojkovic, is not a textbook. The book on technical education with links you mention was approved more than a decade ago, Mr Stojkovic and we, when that information was published, sent the denials several times, but unfortunately, the papers, the journalists who wrote about it, did not want to publish any denials, and the author otherwise carried out a review of the textbooks. Whether you agree or disagree with the results of the PIZA testing is completely and relevant, they are who they are, they are better than in 2006 and that is absolutely progress compared to 2006, which was again progress compared to 2003, and in 2003 were the results of bad. The fact is that at that time in the field of reading literacy, Serbian students have made progress of 40 points that are among the biggest improvements that the country has ever recorded between the two PIZA tests. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the OECD report says. Please read it, it's on the site. The percentage of students who have not reached functional literacy from 51% to 32% has been reduced. Read it nicely, it says. It's not about the minister. It's about the work of the entire ministry. When you mention the past five years, it's the most interesting thing in the whole thing, since those five years, I've been Minister of Government for four years where the Democrats have made most of it. Admit it, it's a little illogical, that I allegedly worked the way you grade it and that I could have your support. Either that's not true, or it's something else. You'd better inform yourself next time you're asking questions like this or something like that, because of you, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19617	The word has the People's MP Miodrag Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19618	Thank you, Mr. Minister, especially on the compliment that I'm a good scientist. For your information, my Hirsch index is five times bigger than your entire university. Speaking of information, the last four weeks have been in vain trying to get information from your university on the list of publications of scientific papers and in the projects that you approved...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19619	I'm sorry, I'm just asking you to talk a little towards the microphone. It sounds really bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19620	Question for you, is it true that you as a professor of one and as a minister in the government, approved, both you and your ministry through so-called. discretionary expenditures 12.5 million at Megatrend University? Isn't that a classic conflict of interest, isn't that enough reason to resign, in any government?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19621	The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19622	Mr Stojkovic, in order for the other MPs to understand the context of the issue, I received this issue from a two-day list and officially from the Anti-Corruption Agency. Now I understand how things work inside the system. I received the same question from the two daily lists and the Anti-Corruption Agency and Mr Stojkovic, which is very interesting. Now that speaks of a triangle that exists here in Serbia and will be interesting to pay attention to that one little fact. Mr Stojkovic, it is true that Megatrend received 12.5 million and that the contract was signed by your colleague Bozidar Djelic. It's just this little, little detail they didn't tell you and it's not just Megatrend. Over the past few years, several private universities have received 198m dinars in the science ministry's competitions, at a time when the ministries were led by Mr Popovic, a fellow member of Pesikan, Djelic until March 2011. They got 198 million. There's an exact list of all private universities and universities, not just Megatrend. These projects, i.e. you already know how researchers participate in the public competition, the expert commission assesses, assigns and resolute minister signs the solution. The case you're talking about is signed by colleague Bozidar Djelic. Just like this, if you know, it's your turn again, because it's your turn to know how things are, just so we don't get to be prey of different information and interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19623	The word is Dr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19624	Thank you. You didn't answer my question. You've been Minister of Science since 2011. What about 2012? That's when you approved the Megatrend projects. Can you, as a minister, also function in a university without conflict of interest? I see you've given me some advice and I'm going to give you some advice, get a little familiar with how a conflict of interest works, but how a science works. If you have two reviewers, none of them should be in any relationship with that project they're talking about. So they have nothing to do with this project, let alone you sign or decide on a project. It's my opinion that you may understand yourself in the professor's trade, but at the Ministry, I don't think you understand much, because if you understood each other, you wouldn't be able to bring science into the state it is in, and that people are already announcing strikes on the street because you and Petniki denied funds. You only gave them one week. Through budget rebalance, you'll give education 1.8 billion dinars less. Not to mention that every scientist in this country gets about 20 euros for material costs to deal with their science and then you'll say – so we're growing on some list of sciences, etc. You know for yourself that from the moment you do an experiment and publish it, it'll be three years. So we're going back to that cumulative effect, which is when you probably won't be a minister anymore, and someone else is going to pay for your mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19625	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19626	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask Prime Minister Dacic my question because, taught by the experience of the Education Committee, I cannot directly disagree with the Minister of Education, because it can cause absolutely unexpected reactions. Prime Minister Dacic, you said as one of the priorities of forming the government that this is the intention of Serbia becoming a state of knowledge and that education is one of the priorities. You said earlier that spectacular reforms on the home plan would remain absolutely unresponsive here. I urge you to check this in practice and try a spectacular reform of education, which is absolutely impossible with the Ministry as it is today. I speak to the Ministry, so I'm still saving myself from a possible reaction, because the ministry is set up so that it doesn't feel responsible for Serbia's future. Of course, there's little chance that there's a reason to steal and distribute questions related to small graduation. Is there a responsibility of the Ministry for the results of the exam? I don't think there's anyone else responsible for those results except the Ministry. It's the basic problem of the situation we found ourselves in. Does this make the Ministry feel responsible for the fact that we don't have a national qualification framework? Is this the Ministry's recognizable memory of the fact that it disobeyed the advice of a Danish advisor at the Ministry who pointed out all the problems with a small graduation, which, due to the reactions he had in the ministry, had recently quit? Whether he was received by the previous or this government, I don't care. I haven't had any contact with any of them. Mr. Dacic, what I want to hear from you is are you ready to really do what the priorities of the government do in life, given the changes needed here in Serbia? I think that education is crucial and I don't care what it's called a minister and which party it's from, if his education is a priority, not politics and application so-called. education for daily political purposes, which is otherwise accused of all those who criticise the Ministry. Does the minister feel responsible for the fact that scientists will go out on the street next week and show their disagreement with the situation in which our science is located and do you feel responsible for it as prime minister and what will you do about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19627	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19628	Mr. Dereta, of course the aim of society reform is to create a better education system. It is not and cannot be a reflection of one-time changes and that each year or with every new government a new system and new basics of the system is being set up. Accordingly, the basics of the education system were defined as early as 2003. Later, the law was passed in 2009. If something needs to be changed, I'm sure there's a public debate to take into account and listen to the opinion of the profession. Recently, in Brussels, I spoke to the European Commissioner for Education in that direction. Now we will have negotiations and this chapter, and I am absolutely prime minister ready not only for this Ministry, but also for all other ministries to do their work with the values that exist in the EU. What is the position of science? I think it's a question that every part of society is asking itself. In the past government, a government reconstruction was carried out, if you remember, and the science portfolio was added to education. Whether it's good or not, we can't on the one hand have a request for as little government as possible, and on the other hand, a request that you have as many ministries as possible. I absolutely agree to examine what is going on with the projects the EU has proposed and set up. I talked to the minister recently. It's about a project to create a nano centre here in Serbia. As you know, in the U.S., I've been talking about information technologies. It's all impossible to do without a good educational base and without personnel who would have had to properly school to do the job. So, in all of this leaving aside the question of resignations and responsibilities and everything else, you should listen as I said in my exposé, you should listen to the opinion of all those who participate in this process. If there are proposals to improve the education system, it is indisputable that this should be discussed. Everything better needs to be accepted. Besides, as you know, by ideology, I belong to those who believe that nothing created can be so sacred that it would not be overcome by something even better. The door is fully open for dialogue, for communication, and who is responsible for these particular failures must be identified by the guilty in terms of both criminal responsibility and political responsibility. It's absolutely undeniable. In this sense, I would be happy if this government could lay those foundations, as you just said - spectacular education reforms. There are two things. We cannot create a better society and there is no greater task than enlightening the people. That was said more than a century ago and I absolutely agree. On the other hand, when Churchill was once asked during the war, then the same thing was supposed to be reduced budget -- where did he cut, education, culture? He said, "If we cut it down, what shall we defend?" That's what we should all be aware of when we talk about these questions. Unfortunately, no government has been able to deal with this until now because of the economic situation. We must have some goals in this, and that is primarily one percent of the allocation in Serbia's budget for education, science and culture. I know what the structure of the ministry's income and expenditure is, when you have a ministry where 90% and perhaps more, 92% make up salaries, very few funds remain for projects, for scientific research, for projects in the field of education, etc. This must be our goal, and this is what I just answered to ask Mr. Jovanovic, let us take advantage of this moment to reboot our system and our consciousness and to create a society where science, education, culture, and sport can be considered the areas where savings can be most easily achieved. I share my opinion with the greatest part of what you said, we need to create a society that is educated because it will depend on our future, because investors who want to invest here want to have a qualified and educational workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19629	The word has been sent to Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19630	I thank you and I must say that I expect you to make a decision that will be in the interest of education and the future of generations of young people in Serbia, which will say that you will support that request that has already been submitted here to the chairman of the Assembly, which is to hold a debate on the replacement of the Minister of Education. I say that among other things because I think he is also responsible for what we heard yesterday from the Citizens' Protector, who said in his report that the data obtained from the control procedures give sufficient grounds for concluding that the exercise of citizens' rights before the Ministry of Education and Educational Inspections is difficult. It also insists that compliance with the legislation required to co-operate with the Ministry of Education with the Citizens' Protector is not at an appropriate level. The ministry's statement in the Citizens' Protector's proceedings is often delivered untimely, after an appropriate period of time and after a series of emergencies. I say this because it seems to me that one of the key problems that we are facing is the relationship to the time that the government has in the ministry, which is that we have a lot of time to do the reform that we need. The strategy was brought eight months ago. There's no action plan for its implementation. It is impossible for the ministry to make an action plan to implement its own strategy in eight months. Don't tell me I'm not well informed, like you told the previous speakers. I apologize to the Prime Minister for returning him to these domestic less important topics at the moment when very crucial matters are decided, but I have another additional question for him as prime minister. It is – whether it can agree with the defence minister and the defence ministry to adopt a decision by the Administrative Court on the residence of General Vlad Trifunovic, who for the third time by the defence ministry, with the reason that he owns an apartment in Zagreb that was assigned to him in the 1980s by JNA. As you know, the general in Croatia has been sentenced to 15 years for war crimes. In Serbia, for the first time in 11 years for treason, then for seven years for handing over weapons, and then completely rehabilitated, his rank was returned, his compensation was paid. The only thing he hasn't been assigned is an apartment that belongs to him legally. I ask you, as Prime Minister, to discuss this matter with the Minister of Defense and the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19631	The word has Prime Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19632	I'm nodding my head, but here's the thing. I got this memo a few days ago from the advisors of the President of the Republic, Mr Oliver Antic, where he sent me the paperwork, and I gave medals to act. We'll let you know what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19633	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19634	I think Minister Obradovic was too happy that I had finished my education. I didn't. We have launched, as the minister certainly knows, and probably the prime minister, we have launched an initiative already signed by more than 60 MPs, which is a necessary number to hold a debate over the replacement of the education minister. Simply, as a serious sign of what the priorities of this Serbia are, which should meet the very high criteria set before it by the process that is today, I hope to the end agreed. What I want to add is that it will not be a debate just about this case which is disastrous as it is, but really a debate about how our education should be in the future. There will be Mr. Obradovic, a lot of grudges and examples that we believe are not indicators of good administration in the ministry, that the selection of personnel is made as it is made. I don't think you're surrounded by people who can properly implement the reforms they need. I don't think you're interested enough. I understand the complexity of this job, but I ask you to understand that we will not stop other priorities that we have been talking about all along, which is the demographic issue of Serbia, if the young leave the country. With all due respect to all other coalition partners, I don't think they're qualified for that part of the priority, which is that as someone here has expressed, Serbia is finally getting a rise in population, not always a decrease. Thank you again for giving me this third part of the pronunciation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19635	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19636	Thank you, Madam Chairman. President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to address the issue of European integration, but since the Prime Minister said a lot in this three-hour debate in the Republic Parliament, I will only say a few sentences. What is quite clear is that Serbia is moving forward and is going in a non-refundable process towards the EU. Tomorrow, as far as the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club is concerned, it is also a historic day for Serbia, but also for the EU. Serbia has shown over the past period that it can meet all requirements and all conditions, that it has been defined towards implementing reforms and has shown that it can do much on the path of European integration. Mr. Obradic, you were somehow in this three-hour debate, I think, a central topic. Certainly stealing tests, when it comes to small graduations in the last few days, was a central topic both in the public and in the Republic Parliament. Among other things, Mr Dereta said this a little while, the Republic Parliament has also come to the initiative to vote for mistrust, or responsibility, the Minister of Education, which was signed by a number of opposition MPs, which is the legitimate right of the opposition to have a critical reference to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it has a critical reference to the work of individual ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I think that issues that are of paramount importance and importance should not somehow end up politicizing and bringing them down to the level of day-to-day policy issues and thus further upsetting the citizens, further disturbing the parents and further disturbing the children. What is essential is what the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs' club advocates, when it comes to a specific case, we need to determine who is responsible and who is responsible for what. Most importantly, what the prime minister said was that students should not be damaged. This problem really needs to be solved to the end. Mr. Obradovic, I would ask you to answer one very specific question for me at this time important question - could the Ministry have taken any more of its responsibilities besides all the measures taken? What are the specific responsibilities of the Ministry when it comes to this case? The president's Word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19637	Mr. Milicevic, I have been trying to explain to this esteemed home all the things related to the theft of the prom, in which way the exam, who is all involved, how the process of preparation is going, making tests, distribution of tests, where and how the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is involved, where other factors in this whole business are involved, and to try together with people from the profession to find an answer to these questions that have been asked to me and to the public. I don't feel like everyone wants to hear the exact answers to those questions. I don't get the impression because sometimes you hear grades that are legitimate, but the question is how thorough they are. I have to say, I'll be able to give my statement to the initiatives that have been filed and say something about the education system itself. We are a system of small graduations that exists as such, as we found the whole system, which existed in the years before, that there are two institutions, that there is a National Educational Council chosen by this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the ranks of people who are professionals in the profession, in certain parts, in different levels of education to the high and that there is a Ministry, that the Ministry of Initiates, seduces do expert assessments and evaluations, proposals and the National Educational Council makes appropriate decisions. It's interesting, I've seen it in years before, that at least in public, it can't tell who's responsible for what, especially who's responsible for what. These two things get very mixed up depending on the moment and on the interest that exists, not by representatives of political parties but, generally, by all those who are in any way related to education. I've had this situation, and I've been in this situation to experience the impact of such a system more than once over the years and to see what I should do or not do. I must say that I have always tried to respect the opinion of the profession, as I am now, in relation to our powers, the Republic Commission for the conduct of the small graduation election has proposed, and I supported it and I stand behind it, that it was good that such decisions were made so that children would not be damaged. We're being put on our souls so we could predict. Who could have known there was going to be a theft? That reminds me of The Hague tribunal – that he knew or had to know. It is the formulation of that responsibility – that he knew or had to know. Of course, then you'll have to get what's right with who. Who could have known there was going to be a theft? The theft was, and it was one person with several assistants who distributed the tests. The police found this as evidence, which served the Commission as the basis for making a decision so as not to endanger children. I support the Commission's decision and I think they've made the best possible decision, as I will support the opinion of the profession. You saw during a recent discussion on the Education Strategy, I said that you asked the professors who were in charge of making and running the whole process of making a Strategy, did the Ministry and did the minister personally participate? The Ministry, yes, through real-estate people. But did I interfere with the development of the professional text of the Strategy? Simply, sometimes you are not in a position to give a relevant explanation of the question because many do not care because it is all predetermined. In advance. It's all predetermined, and it's all in advance. I didn't agree to be a part of that pre-conceived situation and the pre-response, but I said the Ministry did, under the authority, everything that could. What wasn't part of our powers, we couldn't even do. That's right. That's what you need to know, and you need to tell the public, however anyone understands and accepts it. It's our job to do everything we can to make education as high as possible. I can't help but ask myself a question of the public, as a parent and as a minister – what should we do at the Ministry? I'd like someone to give that advice, make the results better. If we have one test in December, one of those tests we've had since last year, so let's prepare in December for what's next to us in June. During the entire second term, exercise is based on the matrix of tasks that are part of the collection that has already been printed. It's then being prepared for a month, five weeks before the date of small graduation. What do we have to do to make the results better? We should promote knowledge, but it should not only be a matter of the Ministry of Education but also of all the participants in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19638	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19639	I thank Mr. Obradovic. I'd like to ask you one more question. The draft budget rebalance has also arrived in the republican parliament, which we will discuss on Monday. What is clear is that the negative effects of the economic crisis will not destabilise the state and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has offered one responsible solution that is in the interests of citizens and, however, is not to the detriment of the most vulnerable categories of the population. The government has been identified as saving. That's completely justified. Savings are a priority, but not saving on citizens. It can't be saved where there isn't. There are 400,000 pensioners who receive pensions of 14,000 dinars, and such savings are not responsible and would not achieve the desired effect. On the other hand, when it comes to the public sector, one radical cut cannot be made and 500,000, 1,000 or 1,500 workers fired. A fundamental reform of the public sector is needed. So state-level savings will be a priority in the next period of time. One restrictive policy will be conducted. What is the question I want to refer to, which you, Mrs Kalanovic, or Mr Ilic, can answer – how much of this restrictive policy and how will this policy affect investment, affect investment projects, infrastructure projects? What infrastructure projects will be current in this financial year? Without infrastructure development, there is no economic development. It is the only way to solve what is a burning issue today in Serbia, and that is the issue of unemployment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19640	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19641	Thank you for asking. For days, I have been waiting to ask what will happen to capital projects, especially at the local and regional level in the coming period. Thank you for finding that the decisions that were ahead of this government were very difficult and should have put into balance what is responsible for citizens and responsibility for the future, i.e. investment in infrastructure, because we are absolutely clear that without investment in infrastructure there is no faster way in the future. I can tell you that this balance is done well. What's a policy facing citizens is that what's little can be even less if we want to maintain this country's biology. I agree with all those who spoke about demographics and the fact that there are fewer and fewer people in Serbia. That's true, and that's something that has to be our policy priority in the next period. Because of the poor material condition and the problems in which this country is supposed to be, we can't be any less because we've made it impossible for people to eat normally, to buy normal drugs. As someone who is committed to infrastructure development, I have consciously accepted that the percentage budget for projects is local and regional from my ministry, I would say, is mostly reduced. All those projects that have begun will be completed. All those projects necessary for economic development this year will be completed to the satisfaction of local self-government and wider communities. There won't be any new projects. We delayed them for next year, we delayed them for better technical preparation. That's why what the Ministry's policy was about to start projects to intensify and end in 2013 is that the line that is related to technical preparation, the preparation of documentation, knowing which end you are from, I can send positive news that the project of building an idea and main project for Valjev's relationship with Corridor 11 will be done in 2013 and the first half of 2014, so that in a happier time we can go into realisation. Unfortunately, those projects that are of less national importance, I'm not saying for local environments and regions, but for national importance, will be delayed for a happier time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19642	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19643	All of us were struck by the fact that there was now rebalancing and some of the projects that were plotted have been reduced. Project documentation cannot be completed, for example, to be paid by advisors for concessions we have engaged in public international tenders. Those funds are just gone now. However, we continue with the projects. The projects on Corridor 11 won't stop. We have agreed on another loan that will be operational and very favourable with China these days. We expect him to be operational every day. The one with Azerbaijan goes full steam. It's a total loan of six and a few million euros. We have two other concessions of projects that are covered and do not burden the budget and they will be completed by the end of the year. So we can't stop and we have to keep going, because it's not worth it if we started making half the highway to stop the other half. We got a lot of benefits. I am very glad that many outside have understood our situation and are offering us a fund that they would make to cover these project costs, construction costs, audit commissions, various commissions, etc. I'm glad these projects, which we've got, letters of intent with the Emirates, go full steam. It's all prepping up, working on it. There will be no problems, there will be jobs and all of these major projects, which are safe for now, around 1.2 billion and some million euros, will employ more than 20,000 new workers, which will significantly improve the situation. The solution is getting out. We got a call that we could get a lot of work in Qatar. There are some numbers mentioned that are for us a dream, but our companies need to organize. In Iraq, we got these two pre-contracts that are extremely big. We need to get out. Our builders have always worked outside. Just in Iraq before the bombing, before the war, we had jobs, 19 billion dollars. We have to get back to the market. For example, our PIM has received an offer to participate in the construction of a port, which is of extremely high value. A 70m-euro contract was signed with the Slovaks yesterday. So we're working full steam, but we have internal problems. For example, former PIM workers have sued and blocked their businesses and are asking for ship sequestration, to sell four crane ships for 500 000 euros in order to settle some of their obligations, and we must sort of agree with the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19644	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19645	Thank you. Very short. I thank you for your answers. I will take the opportunity at the very end to once again, on behalf of the parliamentary club, to the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, to congratulate the ministers of the Republic of Serbia on the results that Serbia has achieved over the past year on the path of European integration. I will say once again, for us tomorrow is a historic day for Serbia and for the EU. Serbia has clearly shown, I will repeat, that it can meet all the requirements, that it is defined for reforms in Serbia and that it is sincere in implementing and implementing what is agreed in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19646	Thank you. Since it's 7:15 p.m., we're done asking parliamentary questions. I would like to inform you that we are continuing to work on items 4 and 5 of the agenda, a unique search of the motions for acts. We'll continue in five minutes. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19648	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, representatives of independent state institutions, today I will allow myself to speak only of the DRI Report, because I believe that its work leads to greater financial responsibility for the government in Serbia. The state audit institution is a basic mechanism for external control and public finance, and it has two key tasks, to audit budget spending and to check the relevance of the way budgets are spent. Simply put, to make sure that everything is really spent the way it is shown and that it is justified to spend budget funds. It has a role to prevent state money from being spent discreetly, which may be one of the most important things when we talk about the transparency of cash flows within the public sector. I think that's exactly the segment that needs to give citizens the opportunity to make sure they spend taxpayers' money, but also to strengthen trust in the work of institutions and restore trust in the work of state institutions and state bodies in general. When we speak DRI, it is the highest state body to audit public funds in the Republic of Serbia. As we know and as mentioned many times, it is independent and is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it corresponds. Reading some statements, I'll agree with the state auditor that my vision is that the DRI becomes recognizable. I think it is reliable, and it is ours to ensure that it remains independent, because it is through the work of the DRI that the control function of parliament is strengthened. In five years since the DRI began to do a major task since its establishment, it has been to keep an eye on public finances and to warn of any illegal spending of public dinar. What is necessary for us as policy makers, and as mentioned in the Strategy itself, is timely and reliable information on the results of the work of state bodies, organisations, institutions, local self-government, public enterprises and many others. Now I would just point out a few of the facts in the report, that the total number of recommendations made in the reports, when we talk about the Republic level, for 2011 147, of which 12 recommendations relate to changes and harmonisation of regulations. We, as the highest legislative authority of this country, when we adopt laws, are certainly in order for them to be implemented and implemented on the ground. This is certainly a good piece of information for us, because we are aware that there are still places where regulations need to be harmonised in order to fully implement certain legal acts, 11 general and 124 special. Also, the report is very good at what we were told and what happened to the 2010 recommendations. That's what I also want to stress, stronger precisely this control function of ours. What I paid a little more attention to myself is the budget audit sector of local authorities, that it was done in 11 cities and 10 municipalities in 2012. One of those municipalities was also the municipality from which I came, and that is the municipality of Cereal. I would like to commend the work of the State Auditor, because from the moment of entry into the DRI at all, where panic was created, after the completed work and recommendations issued, there was a sense of gratitude, because the municipality received clear guidance on what was not good in the previous period, where these procedures were not respected or where they did not exist at all. Personally, I'm someone who advocates respect for procedures, because every time we don't respect procedures or they don't exist or are not visible enough, there's a worm of doubt in all of us that something is not done in accordance with the law, that something is not clear enough or that someone has a desire to conceal something, which isn't necessarily to always be bad. Some things are sometimes done out of ignorance or out of the best intentions, but the partner relationship between local self-government and the DRI, which was created in this period, gave the prerequisites for some things to change. I'll give you a banana example. The funds allocated to NGOs were not made in accordance with some regulation or there were no clear criteria, which was automatically for those civil society organisations that did not receive the funds created doubt as to which one was more responsible for obtaining those funds and why they would not do so, and someone else would. Of course, I don't ask the question at all whether the organizations that have received the funds deserve it, I have no reason to doubt, I believe today to deserve it, but I think it's much better when all civil society organisations get it, because they are also representatives of the public, and that's what we all want from this Parliament and all institutions, that all the work and everything that's called citizens' money is in one clear and concrete way distributed and allocated, but also that there are mechanisms to monitor what and how this money is spent and whether it's spent for the purposes it's been allocated. There are a few other good ones, in fact, essentially all the recommendations for me were good because they forced the municipal administration to make an effort to make sure that both what was not presented as direct or indirect budget users were included, that the budget was clearer, that we know exactly who was getting what funds and for what purposes. What is personal to me is that in my municipality tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, there is a budget and at least a quarterly report on the implementation of that budget, because this is one way to bring citizens closer to the way they spend money directly or indirectly, paraphrasing, pumping into that budget, or allowing that budget and political representatives and policy makers at local level to have it. They also bring in a programme of using funds from fines for violations and form a coordinating body, which is done. I still appeal today to all local self-government leaders to work clearly, transparently because it is the only way for us to regain citizens' trust tomorrow, both in local and state-level institutions. Without wanting to over-absorbed my municipality, which of course is not great, as are most others, but with the desire to thank the DRI for pointing out all those irregularities, including irregularities related to public procurement, it was very often in the form of disregard for procedures, but enough for a worm to appear doubting that something was not done in accordance with the law. Finally, if the DRI's work, which is precisely the role of reducing corruption and raising anti-corruption control, to contribute to strengthening responsibility for financial governance in the public sector, I personally have no reason not to support this report today, and in the future, not to support the work of the DRI and to invite you to spend as much time in the field as possible and to create partnership relations with the performers of functions, so that citizens know where their money is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19649	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19650	Thank you. Dear colleagues, MPs, respected representatives of state regulators, the DRI was founded in 2007 and then started working. The Democratic Party took part in the government. I am pleased to conclude that we have succeeded in the intention of being the ones who will establish such an important organization within our state system. I can also say about the Anti-Corruption Agency, 2009 passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and it essentially started working on January 1st 2010. The DS then led the government of the Republic of Serbia. I think these were significant moments on Serbia's European path. At that time, some of our colleagues who are now in position, most of them in the current government, had badges and were against both these laws and the establishment of these organizations. The arguments were not important, the arguments were not based on facts, were demagogue and above all opposed to that path by Serbia to the EU. I do not agree with the prime minister who just said it does not matter whether the opposition supports Serbia's EU path and whether it supports the government in the process. I think it's very important. This is widely known in Europe, that the biggest parties are trying to agree on the most important topics, because there will then be consensus on the future mandate of both the government and parliament. I haven't been able to ask the question, I wanted to ask about why he thinks so, because this case, when it comes to the Anti-Corruption and DRI Agency, speaks exactly the opposite of what he thinks. To remain that way, to make the clear more independent, to increase your capacity, you need to avoid succumbing to the pressures that certainly exist. We witnessed the previous days of discipline of another independent body, the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council warned of a poor set of tax laws, warned of an unrealistic budget proposal for 2013 and should have been dissuaded through the tabloids and through statements by individual government officials, to threaten the Fiscal Council, which is certainly not allowed. The fiscal council, I hope, won't accept this pressure, and I hope it resists it. That's how I'd like it to be when both the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency have pressure if they have it. I wish you wouldn't succumb to such pressure because such pressure is not good for the citizens. Such pressure does not help, it also retaliates in our European integration. He relieves you from protecting the interests of the citizens, and you are here first and foremost to protect both the state's money and the interests of the citizens. I am pleased to hear that the increased capacity of the DRI is increased, that what was a weakness, a small number of employees, and auditors and tenants, that this has now been changed and that this capacity will be greater because it is necessary to make more coverage of all organisations whose work is controlled, government organisations, public enterprises and institutions. It certainly requires stronger co-operation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, both through the Finance Committee and directly with the MPs. In this regard, the National Assembly should also increase its capacity. Your report is very helpful in our work, and I hope it stays that way. I'm sure at first pressure, when you're under pressure, let's say you make some kind of report, that someone who was elected to the competition would be sinful and get some application, that you'd be replaced, that you'd refuse to do so and remain independent. What I expect from you also in the next period, we have seen from your report, is to control the purpose. I think it's a very important component because then we'll see what's really important for the state to acquire and what doesn't matter, and whether some goods that have a very fast stop function, so, poor quality, were needed to obtain or not. Also, we can check whether the Cuban cigarettes for the "Serb Railways" were really needed for lunch with companies from Switzerland, as Director Simonovic said. I think it's really a funny explanation. There's been a lot of talk about it in public. The savings that citizens do not see today, which are promised by the new Public Procurement Act, are to happen, but I think that they will happen by the system to deal with it, and the system is made up of independent regulatory authorities that will control all the flow of money and control all decisions of the competent services. In this sense, the large role plays DRI and, of course, the Anti-Corruption Agency. In that case, I think it will be very difficult for the government to employ ten thousand public sector activists in ten months, and then to say that it is a difficult crisis and that it must be rebalancing, that that is why we have missed all positions and that today we have such a bad economic picture in Serbia, that no one trusts the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it says that everything is fine and that the proposed measures that came to the Republic Parliament yesterday will bring any good to the citizens of Serbia and the fallen economy. Today we have a report from two important institutions. I have already said, I think it is important that we establish full independence, full of the integrity of these institutions in the Republic of Serbia because they are important for our European path. Then it won't matter to us, or the prime minister will be important, and he will be able to say freely that the negotiations will begin in June. There is no need to talk about the great Vidovdan because, in that case, we will arrange our system properly and it will function and the citizens will be satisfied. This is our goal, not the date of the populist, to prepare for the next election that is imminent, because this is the kind of rebalancing that came yesterday just for that. The Democratic Party has supported and fought for Serbia's European path since its 23-year renewal and has insisted on it. I said that some of our colleagues did it a decade ago and perhaps less, perhaps we would already be members of the EU. Unfortunately, because of their ex post mind, we are still talking today about the start date of the negotiations. We regret that Serbia lost a lot of chances because of their 23-year delusion, but we hope they finally understand, and we will not be in the way, we will support this European path, as we today support reports from independent regulatory authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19651	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19652	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency, respected colleagues, very few of whom are left, today we have had the opportunity to discuss the reports of two important institutions that should in some way honor the courage. For the courage that exists from 2007 to 2013, which in some ways has been passed by three different compositions of governments, or political groups that made the congregation majority, which they should have submitted their work reports. Of course it's been hard for you and it's safe, there have been pressures from different sides, that this professional work, a picture of what public finances look like and what it seems like to be a real fight against corruption. That's why you have to say that you've had enough courage to resist as much as certain pressures. When you look at the DRI reports, then you should say that in some ways, it's an evaluation of all the financial reports you've been doing so far. What is very interesting if we compare the results from 2011 and 2012 it is seen that much less findings were done in 2011 than in 2012. It is evident that in 2011, the report showed that a certain financial part of the funds was more spent in public procurement than was needed. It was heard in some discussions, and a replacement of the thesis was made in years by the opposition, that in some way 47 billion dinars were spent in a given year, and it seemed to have happened in 2012, which was in fact in 2011. So because of the truth in the public and in general, for the sake of Serbian citizens, we have to deal with concrete data. In 2011, 51% of the so-called The GDP was Serbia's public debt. Serbia's capital was then cut by 1.68 billion dinars, according to a DRI report. This is all happening during the previous government in which Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic was prime minister. In 2012, we have half the year that Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic really ran, and we have a new government, after May elections, under the leadership of Mr. Dacic, in that year we have 20 and more results more done, we have some findings that 28 institutions are positively rated, we have a hundred of those that have been rated with the reserve and we have 15 that have not received a positive opinion. At that level, public debt, at the request of the finance minister, sought to be between 45% and 51%. This is what one responsibility in public finances has proved to be, although it is the time of the economic crisis, although we have found a really large budget deficit with major organisational and financial problems. What has proved to be very difficult is the work of 4,500 state institutions, organisations dealing with the Anti-Corruption Agency. Also, what turned out to be very difficult to make that republican level, when you transfer to the province and your local problems composing. So your work in the public who proved to be good, that you have contact not only with the media, but also with the NGO, the civil sector, of which you have in some way received input data as applications, shows that on a local level, it means where cities and municipalities have had over 200 applications, which has caused over 600 recommendations that you had to write. This is what I want to show the citizens of Serbia that you've been really insisting on your profession. I'm sure you've had your problems. But these problems are still standing today, with me thinking that in this assembly meeting, where the SNS is the headquarters of this government, you must have less pressure than you had before. For a simple reason, what if you look at the results of the Anti-Corruption Agency, you will see that there must be political will, in order to really persist on this path, which has simply been drawn out to us, which is to reduce the degree of corruption, reduce the level of inadequate spending of public finances and act extremely responsible for the budget. When we talk about fighting corruption at all, in the end, the European Commission has also assessed the work in this area of Serbia at an envious level and indeed supported it with one positive assessment, where we went most in the part. If the citizens of Serbia and investors themselves and the businessmen themselves wanted to enter this market a year and a half ago, then they would have to talk to one man, two or three. Now they can simply come and talk to all relevant companies that exist on this market about co-operation and co-operation at their jobs. Why are we even talking in this part, and why is it commendable to even talk about the work of independent institutions and the fight against corruption? Because we're creating a more competitive economy, with a more competitive economy, we can really talk about some production, about wanting someone to work with us. I will remind you that the total turnover, in general, of Serbia's cash turnover, is 65% with EU countries. Therefore, if we want to work with these countries in our environment, in the region, we have to act extremely responsibly towards our finances but also on the market for goods and capital. What is important is yet to be said, and I mean a practical summary of this whole story and the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that there was no political will of this government at the head of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who is in charge of the government for a job called the fight against corruption and that he did not have such a concept that some times and stubbornly persistently push some things, minority against all, to push simply in such a way that you really are independent in your work and that there really are those concepts that existed before, that there is only one performer, that one man wonders, that there is one owner of Serbia in terms of finance and that he is the only one who has the right to negotiate with the state. If it hadn't been for such political will, we simply wouldn't have had any reason today to talk about the shift and your independent work. What we've all pointed out, I'm in front of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as chairman of that committee, and we're going to ask that your reports come to us on board. It's not just a matter of the work of the Justice Committee and it's not just a matter of work for finance and budget, it's just that they come to us and they take a report and information every three months and the Privatisation Agency. The European Commission has given its opinion that there are 24 privatizations that are simply under great secret, under great question and that they speak unequivocally of the violations both in that part of how the privatisation process was carried out and in that part of how the state was incomed, because the state has made some money into the budget for what the privatisation has done. When we talk about this Privatisation Agency, our committees, believe me, take three, four hours, because we want to know all the details of all the procedures we've discussed. In doing so, the director of the agency is from the previous term, so we have no problem with him being from the other opposition party now, or on the DS proposal. We really want to show the good will that we can enter structural reforms as a state. We will have great problems to complete the restructuring of 170 other companies in which, simply as you are kind of public finance guards and those who need to examine these financial reports, we need you to be present in the work of that committee. We therefore propose that you help us as MPs to have a full picture of public finances from the aspect of the economy, because the Ministry of Economy and Finance is indeed sending a report, the State Secretarys are coming to us and submitting reports on their work. It's not enough just to keep track of how much money has come in, how much has come out. It's also very important for that organisational part of the economy, because we are as the only legislative body and the highest ultimately here, which needs through legal solutions to create this investment environment. How do we create it if we don't know what our inputs are? Your reports are supposed to be some sort of rapper as the state behaves. Whether it's being wasteful, whether these budgets are highly unbalanced, or extremely responsible. What we have, several rebalances in one year, I don't see it as some problem because today the economic situation is changing very quickly in our environment. Therefore, it is not a terrible idea to draft budgets and in some ways define on several occasions and make budget rebalancing, as it is then considered a highly responsible fiscal policy. In the end, I would really like to thank you for coming into such a wide-ranging system, and I hope that as a Committee and MPs, we will have time and will talk about all the problems that await us not only in the restructuring of the public sector through the transformation of unfinished privatisations, in public enterprises, but also in the part that concerns the transformation and social work of the funds, because we have in our debate and some new legal solutions that we form some new funds such as the Energy Efficiency Fund and which simply, we would now want something new to run, and we do not have enough funding as a state to go into such a business. Technology in our environment requires it from us. I thank you, and I hope we'll cooperate nicely in the future. Of course, the SNS will support your report.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19653	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19654	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Radoslave Sretenovic, Mrs. Tatjana Babic, I am glad that the annual reports on the work of the Anti-Corruption and Labour Agency are on the agenda today. On the arrangement, Serbia is in 82nd place, and I remind you that Finland and Sweden are in first and second place. In 2007, DRI, Mr Sretenovic was elected and you know who voted for it and who was against it in this assembly. In 2009, the Anti-Corruption Agency, Mrs Tatjana Babic, was voted in, and you know who supported the formation of this agency. You, Mr. Sretenovicu and you, Mrs. Babic, are the institutions you represent, defending the self-will of individuals and state institutions of government and the last misery of the preservation of democracy. It is not enough to sign the Brussels Agreement, so we can join the EU. Citizens of independent institutions and respect for human rights, the organisation of the country, preventing discrimination are preconditions for this. Your institutions, Mr. Sretenovicu and Mrs. Babic must resist all political pressures and remain independent. You must succeed in building your credibility and for that you will always have the support of those who voted to establish these institutions. You'll always have DS support for something like that. Don't let them discipline you, like some other independent institutions, and I'll just mention fiscal advice and pressure on him in the tabloids. Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we heard this today, insult and disdain the MPs, do so on assembly committees. National MPs of the government's headquarters injured yesterday, insulted the trustee to protect citizens' equality. The DRI needs to increase the capacity, i.e. the number of auditors who will courageously, and not as government ministers, selectively control new local authorities in Serbia, the work of state-owned enterprises and institutions, primarily "Serbigas", "Nikola Tesla", "Telecoma", "Telecoma", "Serb Railways", to control the purpose of public procurement. As for you, the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is very important to see who is in conflict of interest, who is the director of public enterprises and institutions, who has a large number of functions, how many people are members of supervisory committees, while at the same time in other places? It is very important and I support your exposure from today, which is the control of the work of political parties, and there you will have my support and support of the DS. First of all, it should be established that those ballots that were in the sacks were printed in previous elections, who sold sausages to citizens during the elections in Zemun, Koseric and Zajecar, were bought glasses and shared with short-sighted persons and many other materials, used and abused. That is why you will have unreserved support, and I ask you, together with the Protector of Citizens, the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, to courageously preserve the bed of democracy, because it is not only a mere condition for us to join the EU. We must, first of all, arrange for this society, for independent institutions to be completely independent of the government, to cooperate with the National Assembly and the competent committees, to have full co-operation with you as MPs, to point out the gaps we see in the field when we go around many communities and to arrange this society for all time and thus welcome the entry into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19655	The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19656	The esteemed chairman, fellow MPs who are still here in parliament, representatives of the Anti-Crime and Corruption Agency, Mr. State Auditors, have indeed been exhausted from the SNS parliamentary group, especially fellow Tomic spoke about today's two reports that we have ahead of us, and I would not like to repeat myself and hold my attention for a long time, and I have promised some of you that I will be very brief and that I will commend you for your very hard work and I will do so. When I promise something in informal conversations, it binds a lot to this kind of public tide. I just want to mention a few things, which is the fact that you've made an effort to submit this report within the legal deadline that obliges you and that the report for the first time appeared in the tide, and we've made a big step. Yesterday I tried to find a debate in the National Library of Serbia and in the Open Parliament on the 2011 Report and, with the best of intentions, I couldn't find it, except that in 2011, you submitted the report to parliament, but we never discussed it. If that is not true, you will correct me and not take me for granted. This is more directed to parliament than to you who have done your job in both last and this year, but it is good that we have now made a great democratic progress and that we have met by doing all that we have done in the report on Serbia's progress towards the EU, noting that we need to do regularly with independent regulatory bodies that we voted for both in the past and in this session to establish this. Why did I say we missed that 2011 report? It's important to compare for this kind of matter. As a member of the Justice and Corruption Committee, however, I have defined myself more and more professionally, this report on the Anti-Crime and Corruption Agency, let's see what the Agency did in 2011, which it dealt with in 2012, and whether there are any differences there, because we do not have the continuity of the government, so let's see if there are any things, whether politics is now changing from the one we had until 11 May 2012. What's also good, I think it's made on both sides of obvious progress, it's that, in addition to the Report, I don't know if you've met, we have a continuation of this session tomorrow and that the country's strategy for fighting crime and corruption from 2013 to 2018 and that strategy will create an action plan and will then be even more interesting to see what will happen in a year. Analyzing specifically the Agency's report on the fight against crime and corruption, therefore, what I noticed increased all activities, aimed at preventing crime and corruption. That's how I understood. I think that parliament has also helped greatly by passing the Law on the financing of political parties in 2011. In this meeting with great pleasure, I can say that we have passed the Public Procurement Act. When I say that your efforts were directed towards prevention, that's where I singled out a few things. This is your targeted verification of the reporting of state officials' assets, then the processing of cases of double public functions, which may be at risk of conflicts of interest, that the Agency is controlling the financing of political parties and election campaigns. And here you have the great support of the SNS Parliament Club and our ruling coalition, because I think every man just finds out that an independent body is doing this, and that it deals with this kind of public business, such as politics, is an extremely important prevention not to cross that line and that line that would cross. Some people have it in practice. Some complain about the media that wrote about the anomalies that occurred in the previous period. There are no grudges, but simply that fear that you can have a conflict with the law and with some investigative authorities, every conscious man must stop at some work or at least attempt or intent. What is extremely significant is the investigation into the origin of the property of individual politicians. We need it to facilitate such a thing, to pass a law on the origin of property. I've been involved in politics for a long time, and it's always been amazing for me to know that we all have the same salary, those who are employed in parliament, in government, in public enterprises, etc., they bounce drastically, but to stay at this level of politicians, MPs, we've been there for 20 years and we have the same salary, and some of them live in apartments that their parents, in some happy circumstances, could buy or inherit, and some of them with this same salary are so thrifty, they know well enough to distribute that money, to buy companies, get into privatizations and have huge villas, buy yachts, and so I think, and therefore, the SNS will support such a law if it comes before us and if the executive government proposes, or we ourselves, as MPs, will suggest, that we also allow the Agency to question both that the part of crime and corruption that appears in the ranks of politicians. There are colleagues who spoke bravely today. They're loud enough to yell at what bothers some ordinary world, who simply can't explain the difference between those who live in apartments bought from parents and those who live in abnormal, for our circumstances, acquired property. I promised my colleagues that I wouldn't talk for long, that they would have space, that two problems were very important in your work, and that's where we have to do something together. It's a alarming problem. Usually, the people are wrong, and the alarmers and the protected witness are on their way. No, the protected witness is someone who was involved, so he wants his punishment reduced and he exposes the crime in which he participated together and has some knowledge. The alarmer is very important for society like ours, it's important for others. It's a person who sees an anomaly that points to it and is not protected by anything. That takes a lot of courage. Dr. Bokorov's example at the Institute of Sremski Kamenica is something that deserves attention. She wasn't protected by anything. You know he's the founder of the Institute of Sremski Kamenica AP Vojvodina and you know who's in power there. She was also subject to political pressures, she was replaced, she was removed from work, she was fired at the Medical School. Her bosses even threatened the staff that worked with her, the nurses. They even came to her private life, not to go to the funerals of her loved ones in the family. This must not happen because alarmers are extremely important for the detection of crime and corruption in our society. I also want to say that you too must be protected from political pressures. You've got a lot of SNS support. There won't be any pressure on you. I'm going to give another example of what happened in 2012 in Novi Sad, where I came from. I don't know about other places. In 2012, a complaint was filed against authorities in the town of Novi Sad. I'm not going anywhere, it's a application. Prosecutors and courts do their thing. But I know what was going on. Press conferences have been held. The director of the Anti-Crime and Corruption Agency Zorana Markovic has been insulted. She was threatened with criminal charges because she was doing her job, so she started some things. She was insulted and threatened publicly at press conferences that she would be replaced. That can't happen in our society. It's important that there are alarms and it's important that you don't have a policy of pressure. Your reports will be getting better and better. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly contribute to this, and we will vote in the voting day for both reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19657	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19658	Ladies and gentlemen of the DRI, from the Anti-Corruption Agency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, great efforts have been made by DS, but also by other political parties with whom we were in the coalition at the time that in 2000, the state that we inherited from, from the state administration with a broken economy, with a broken down society, which has experienced the greatest collapse in Serbia's history, great efforts have been made to build independent institutions and independent regulatory bodies, which have been destroyed by those who run the state today. You're often resented that we've done a little bit. They forget what state they left the state in. With destroyed, undermining, institutions, with a broken country, where it took years and years to pass, not to find robbed money and money, but to count dead, avoided, displaced, and to look at a country that was systematically destroyed. When it started to build independent regulatory bodies, when it started to build institutions in this country, then we had a huge obstruction. When we passed the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, do you know what is said by those who defend you the loudest in these institutions today? That it's a NATO product. That it imposes on us the EU. That it's totally unnecessary. What's the auditor? Well, those insults that the institution was exposed to at first instance, it was for anthology. That is why there is also a congregation library and stenograms from that session. Of course, I will not remind my colleagues of what they said at the time, the citizens of Serbia know that, too. If they want to really insist, we can talk about it a little bit. Of course, in Serbia, in the 1990s, there was a strange principle. Everywhere in the world, a man who is illegally rich, a man who puts his hand deep into a people's pocket, a man who is wrong about the budget, about elementary, moral standards, everywhere in the world, that man, in a decent world, would be called a thief. In Serbia alone, these people in the 1990s received an epithet -- a capable man. Wow, he's a capable man. Then able people set out to create both political and any other reality in this country, to keep their system of values free, to oppose the idea of the EU, because it was dangerous for them. To oppose the idea of an orderly, civilized society, and in particular to oppose any idea that anyone has the right to control capable people. Then we of the DS proposed a whole series of system laws, to calculate ourselves with such capable people, so we passed a law on the confiscation of property acquired by crime, so we formed a Special Court for Organized Crime, and then after a painful attempt, we managed to pass the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, get a state auditor and get a constitutional basis in our efforts to make Serbia a decent country. We were not supported by today's anti-corruption fighters in their efforts to pass the law on confiscation of property acquired by crime. He didn't answer them, he was troublesome. I'm very concerned today when I hear that the SNS is providing strong support to independent regulatory bodies. You were supposed to be in this room yesterday to see what strong SNS support Nevena Petrusic, that level of primitiveism, that insult, that level of degradation of the highest legislative home looks like. As a MP who's seen everything in the past seven, eight years in this high house, that level of insult given to an independent regulatory body I've never experienced in this high house. That's why I'm worried about it, especially that arrogant, ossion, dirty insult of independent regulatory bodies. And I can imagine what your destiny will be the moment you dare to do what one of the speakers said, to check the property of some politicians. To ask how it is possible, and I know who this speaker meant, how it is possible, that when in Serbia someone's hearths are turned into a firehouse, at the moment one man buys a two-ar apartment, and comes to a street called Bulevar Zoran Djindjic, it's about Tomislav Nikolic, of course. You should have seen another man taking off a board named Bulevar Zoran Djindjic Street and titled Bulevar Ratko Mladic, it's about Alexander Vukic. You should have seen these people...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19659	Mr Milivojevic, I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to remind you that you should speak only of the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19660	So this is where we talked about public alerts. You should have seen Borislav Stefanovic, the head of the DS parliamentary group, who alarms the public, but also the minister by giving them a test with falsified exam results, which probably did not match the height of the consumer basket. Suddenly, it is said that he will be called to criminal responsibility for alarming the public. We're not afraid to give investigative authorities all the information. We're MPs, we'll never call for immunity when we alert the public. But what do you say to these unfortunate people who dared to hit the hornet of corruption on the billing ramps at a hospital in Sremska Kamenica? What is their destiny? Do they share the fate of people who are prisoners in prison? But not these prisoners who...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19661	Mr. Milivojevic, I'd like you to return to the agenda for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19662	Wait, Madam Chairman, didn't everyone talk about public alerts? Is that a theme? Tell me you and I would understand each other well. Don't interrupt me if I'm talking about public alerts and their fate, I don't see what the problem is. If we have a problem here that we can't talk about the topic of the agenda, about the fate of the people who are alarmers, and that's what Mrs. Milica Radovic and Mrs. Maja Gojkovic were talking about, you didn't warn them, you warned me. It's really not right. But you do your job well, I'll do mine. I'm not afraid to tell the truth. So, if some people in prison can expect a visit from top state officials, do they get it for money or not, I don't know, that they're promised amnesty and pardon, what's the meaning of your existence? What is the point of your existence if you fight corruption, and the President of the Republic gives the first pardon he gives to a man who is convicted of corruption to a doctor, who has been convicted and confirmed by his conviction for taking bribes? What's the message to you as independent regulatory bodies? What's the message to the public in this country? What's the message if the government brings the first thing it does to the Amnesty Act, where thousands and thousands of people amnesty and today we complain about increasing crime and corruption? You know, in Serbia today, we have an ever-increasing trend of increasing crime and corruption because the fight against crime and corruption is only being carried out declared. And first of all, on the page of the tabloids. There's no such thing as a crucial fight. What is the significance of you as independent regulatory bodies? The point is, first of all, to be independent, to be indisposed to political influence, to insist on, to seek help and support, to have budgetary, financial independence, not to depend on someone's charity and to have someone project your budgets and to say, wait, your budget is this big, you control the government, you control the ministries, but we from the Government and the Ministry are going to prescribe to you what your budget is, in the context of anti-crisis measures, and you won't be able to control us. You'll always have louder support for the opposition than position. Always. I am convinced that this trend will change over time, because once the opposition did not want to vote for your appointments, appointments and legislation that would regulate the work of your independent regulatory bodies. Unfortunately, there is also talk of certain levels that have been achieved in the fight against corruption, so it is said – now businessmen come easier, investments are made easier, corruption is much reduced. I just don't have those pink glasses to see these businessmen. I've got regular glasses, and when I put them on, I can see even better that there's no investment. Of the promised 100 billion euros in foreign investment, 200 million did not arrive. Of course, I have some advice for you. I'd like you to check the campaign funding reports for local elections in Zajecar, Kovin, Zemun, Koseric. I told Zemun. If it's not a problem, I'll say it again, both Zajecar and Koserić and Zemun and Kovin. Let's see what the cost of political parties showed. (The People's MPs are getting, from the place: Census. Don't worry about our censorship. Don't worry about our censorship at all. Here, I see, Mr. Marian Risticevic shows – three. Well, three times Dragan Gilas beat Alexander Vukic, I understand your message, and three more times he'll beat him, don't worry. Tell that to Alexander Wolf, don't tell me. I'd really like to see some control of those financial reports. Last year, in the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, it marked the control of parliamentary, presidential and local elections. I'm not going to get into it because the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency has been replaced, and I don't need as politicians to comment on it. It's an internal matter of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I understand the public's interest in such things. I am much more worried when I see that in Serbia, apart from a declarative push to fight corruption, there is no fundamental fight against corruption that ends, not in the tabloids, but in front of judicial authorities. Only 10% of the applications filed end in court. Is that the problem of the judiciary, is that the problem of these 650 judges who were fired during the reform of the justice system, and then took the SNS membership cards and went back to work, or is it another systemic problem? Of course, I have to say, it has its own trail. It all started with general amnesty, continued by pardoning corruption, got its mark in a crawling police-tabloid dictatorship, which slowly became galloping. You will be the first to face this government's blow and the first to face the blow of this government. You will have this strong support for the opposition. You will have strong support from the DS. We will vote for these reports. We will support you in your work. We shall be your defenders of those fluids which We have established with torment. Last but not least, Brazil is a big mess right now. The people are unhappy. I'm not calling on Serbia's Brazilian script, let's get this straight. Any situation, as tense as it may be, can be resolved by dialogue between the opposition and the positions, by the citizens' dialogue. There are those who articulate people's dissatisfaction. There are those independent regulatory institutions that are there to control every government. The government is supposed to be terrified of your reports, not yours to be terrified of reports critical of the government. In Brazil, their famous humorist, Milor Fernandez, asked the citizens of Brazil to tell him the difference between politicians and thieves? He's got a lot of funny answers. The answer he won is, "Well, the difference between politicians and thieves is that I chose this first politician, and the second one was a thief, he chose me." Mr. Fernandez sent his answer to that answer, saying, "Dear sir, you're a genius. You're the only one who's noticed the difference between politicians and thieves. "I'm here to draw that sign of equality between politicians and thieves and yet to say that politics is an honorable job. Because there is an incredible ease in us that people accept responsibility for every job offered to them, that politics has become a minority and an unemployment bureau and some unfulfilled political ambitions and careers. In politics, however, serious people are professionally accomplished and should be taken off the profession of politicians, but also judges, doctors and some other professions, clear and stained. Not someone who wrongs moral, legal, ethical norms to be a sign of equality for the whole profession. Not someone who sits in independent regulatory bodies, or someone who sits at the Anti-Corruption Agency, if he commits some kind of violation to be a criterion for all the people sitting there, nor can anyone impose a rule on you to observe you through the prism of someone who may have committed some kind of violation. Also, it cannot be someone who has committed a certain offense and is involved in politics or any other profession, to be a mirror of that profession. We're not going to the game because of the red charts. We never identify the worst football player on the team with football or with the whole team. Let's go for nice and good moves. Unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia may not have seen many nice moves by our politicians, but it is up to you and us to preserve the reputation of all professions, the reputation of all institutions, to be guardians of democracy, not to let anyone think that he is so powerful, powerful and ossion, outside and above the law, and that he is allowed to do so, and that no one ever tries as in this country to usurp both the Constitution and the law, to crush the institutions, not to allow their formation without bringing this country into the sun. At this job, building a civilized, democratic, open European society will always have DS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19663	The word is Dejan Radenkovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19664	I'm advocating a violation of section 107 of section 1 of the Parliament's dignity. You were obliged to warn your colleague Milivojevic, for he has made many lies. Unfortunately, they can't listen to those citizens next to the TV screen, those disfigured workers whose factories have been destroyed, robbed. Someone conducted some robbery privatisations, and we need to talk about it, not what all colleagues of Milivojevic were talking about. Those workers who have been disfigured who simply can no longer look into the eyes of those who, on October 5th, led these democratic changes, when counterpart Milivojevic proudly stormed this assembly. It simply must not be forgotten and must be investigated to the end. We have nothing against it, and we need to talk about it, and we can't forget it. What's happening today is the result of that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19665	As you noticed, you may have missed, I warned Mr Milivojevic twice. As I explained yesterday, each of us Members of the People exposes his own political will in his own way. I do have tolerance for that. Mr. Markovic, you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure, too? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19666	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27, in the manner of conducting the Assembly, your personal position is always difficult for those who chair, because different requirements will be put in place before him, and I will make the opposite request and that is my request. Because of the tolerance and, above all, because of our guests today who participate and who present their reports, to remind ourselves – a MP within the time available to him by the Rules of Procedure, and no one has the right to interrupt him except you, of course, the chairman, but please take care of him. The MP in a way that suits him can talk about the subject and connect the subject and there is no reason to interrupt as long as the atmosphere is in harmony. The MP has the full right to present the information he personally remembers or those he does not remember, about parties that are now parliamentary or about the former parliamentary parties. The truth is, we heard it today in the exhibit, that when the DS was an opposition, she didn't want to vote for the DRI. But it should be correct, she certainly participated in the preparation of this law through seminars that were also on Bled, in Belgrade and contributed. Sometimes someone will do something from the opposition, sometimes from a position, it changes. The fact that it is not the subject of today's discussion does not justify, because of the atmosphere that currently exists and which we support, to warn or interrupt any speaker who, in the course of his time, in the way he chooses himself, speaks of a particular subject. Thank you all for understanding. I'm not asking the Assembly to plead. Just please keep in mind that the requirements under this article will be on the one hand and on the other hand, and you will personally decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19667	I can only answer you - it's hard for the people to please. As you can see, the job of the chairman is really complicated, and you know it well, Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19668	Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that certain MPs of a small opposition party are nervous. I understand that some MPs of a small opposition party, which is falling apart by all the screws, are nervous about the fight against corruption that we are fighting together, because the fight against corruption suggests that the very officials of the small opposition parties were, at the time, the most abused by the official position. I understand that certain MPs of this small opposition party, which is falling apart in all stitches, are nervous and because their censorship has become a mental noun. I understand that some MPs of a small opposition party, who shoots at all stitches, are frustrated because their best shots are gone, some have gone, some have been passported, some have been thrown out. I understand some MPs of that small opposition party, who shoots all over the seams, that in the absence of programs and lack of ideas, they begin to plot, insult, invent various affairs for what little tabloids they have left to pay. I understand all that. I don't understand why certain MPs of this small opposition party, who shoots at all stitches, use this day, when we're discussing extremely important reports, and I have to say, very good reports by the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency, to treat their frustrations. On behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, as the largest and strongest parties in this House, in some way as your host, I will use these few seconds, which I have left to offer you an apology on behalf of the individual MPs of the small opposition party, who is shooting at all stitches, for their conduct today. Excuse me one more time and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19669	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19670	I understand the representatives of a large positioning party, whose haughtiness has made Serbia shoot at all stitches, that they have made so much of their haughtiness and arrogance in the abuses and powers of public functions that they do not see Serbia shooting at all seams due to its haughtiness. Just like last time Serbia shot all the stitches, it's shooting now. I understand the representatives of a large-scale party whose haughtiness, I underline, Serbia is shooting at all seams, that they were once the greatest fighters against independent regulatory bodies. They fought against independent regulatory bodies because independent regulatory bodies exist to ban them from using positions, let's say the Commission's representative to check the situation in prisons, to visit prisoners and to promise them amnesty, regardless of the prisoners convicted or accused of the most serious crimes. When someone gets a pardon from Tomislav Nikolic, because he was taking a 300-euro bribe, so he can expect every official of the large boasting party to visit him in prison. While Serbia is shooting at all the stitches because of its haughtiness, it can even happen that it threatens the families of DS detainees, that they must testify against certain people from the government, they must threaten the judges of the Supreme Court, Mr Mesarovic, that they must judge one way or another. That haughtiness, it will end as well as that haughtiness when they ran this country the last time, as in 2000, but unfortunately Serbia is having to shoot all the stitches hard to endure again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19671	The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Cvian, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19672	Advertised violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. It's about the provisions regarding the giving of replicas. So I will remind you that only that MP who was struck in some way, mentioned in the speech of the previous MP, has the right to reply. I have repeatedly mentioned in my speech one small opposition party falling apart on all stitches and not having a program. I don't know why my colleague Milivojevic recognized the DS in that case. If he recognized it, I mean, he probably recognized it for good reasons. I don't think you should have given him the right to a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19673	I gave Mr. Milivojevic the right to the replica after you received the right to reply to his presentation. Since you mentioned his presentation, or interpreted his presentation, Mr Milivojevic received a basis for replication on this basis. We're going back to work. Next is MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've heard on several occasions exhibits from the 3 percent parliamentary group here and they've alluded to me. So here it is claimed that someone first executed the torture, so the pressure, so the leprosy, blasphemy, insults the independent regulatory body. That's where they think of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. So, I don't think so. The DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency are here today. Now I ask both – can the information trust be subject to review, can the trust for equality be the subject of the Anti-Corruption Agency? If anyone thinks, and it is attributed here that I said it on behalf of the group, so I underline, I speak for myself, on behalf of the People's Peasant Party, I mean with my head, I decide with my head, I think with my own head, I speak for myself, I speak for myself, unlike some others who have to think with the head of the leader, that if the bodies are independent that there can't be corruption in them? No one challenged the evidence I presented. So, I'm asking the auditor's office to determine whether it was true in the data delivery that I claimed that the UNDP, Texas, transferred the information trustee to the U.N.P.D. in 2011 to $110,000, did in 2012, when you were doing the report... (President: Mr. Risticevic, please return to the topic. Is the DRI theme? Is their report a topic? Their report doesn't include an audit. So I can't say that what I'm saying isn't true. Because the purpose of their report was not the trustee of equality, trust. I'm asking you to check it out by the DRI. If that's not the subject, then, since that report doesn't cover it, I'm asking to see if it's during 2012, and you're only going to check it this year, when you see those final accounts, you transferred 60,000 to the same UNDP organization in Texas? That's what I claimed, arguing that on the official trip, the Commissioner did not spend as many days as he stated in the report, but was in Thailand for another five days. So that's what I'm asking to check, as I was saying she got $5,000 of her daily allowance while she was sitting there doing the Aboriginal Inclusion Project. That's what I claimed yesterday. That's what's supposed to be so arrogant. It's so much torture, etc. Does anyone in this room think they shouldn't check what independent regulatory bodies are doing? If they're immune to corruption, if they're operated on by corruption, then I have no right to present certain doubts that I've received in terms of paper and evidence, which I've shown, including plane tickets, vouchers, etc. If anyone thinks no one has the right to, not even this Assembly, not these MPs, to tell independent regulatory bodies anything and point to any information, then I don't know what we're going to do here. Then we should say it's all right, we've established independent regulatory bodies, we've got DRI, we've got the Anti-Corruption Agency, and you don't have to come to the Assembly. If this is all for granted, if you submit a report in writing, it automatically amnests you from every question and from any doubt that MPs may raise. I argue further, if a serious audit and verification is carried out, if the data I have presented is incorrect, I will resign as a member of the People's Parliament. If they're right, I'm behind this, this is being transmitted, those who attack me so much should resign. So, I was brutally attacked. The peasant Risticevic is said to be. No one intervened. I don't need anyone to protect me. That's what the person who belongs to the Civil Initiatives said. It's been established here. Have the auditor check it out. And the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Civil Initiative, the NGO, and how it has contact... (President: Mr. Risticevic, this is not the subject of the report. Please, Mr. Risticevic, we heard a lot about that yesterday. Go back to the DRI report and the Anti-Corruption Agency. ) Is the subject of the Anti-Corruption Agency Report? This includes this corrupt thing that happened between trust and an NGO, where trust even paid fees to the Civil Initiatives. I'm asking if that's what the Anti-Corruption Agency covered with its report? Of course not, because the data was not known to her, as it was not known to me either. It's my duty and my obligation to warn them of this species, where they're about to say what they need to do to be first, to win some money project. Is that okay? A member of that organization called me a peasant. That, of course, didn't bother you, nor did I, because being a peasant, it's a noble profession. So, to deal with agriculture, to feed the people, there's nothing more beautiful than that. As far as these reports are concerned, I think we should read behind which all relevant institutions have been established. I also have an objection. I agree that we found a completely devastated country, but not in the '90s. I was back in the '90s. The country was devastated, filled with rich people who had become rich at the expense of the poor. I agree there wasn't any of these independent regulatory bodies at the time, there was nothing. But these rich people have become even richer in these 12 years, so in 2012, I found myself completely divisive, territorially decapitated, economically destroyed, by corruption, by a struggling state. It's a great honor that these bodies were founded, but I claim that there has never been more corruption than in the last four years and that your work is extremely difficult and that you should be helped and pointed to all kinds of corruption. All the objections that apply to now, you'll be working next year. These are reports while some previous government was in power. So all the reports refer to that period and it's up to us to point out what's good in those reports and what we think should be done. As for the funding of the political entities controlled by the Agency, I would like them to tell me whether they included any political parties financed by the Friedrich Neuman Foundation, according to a politician who said Serbs should be crushed from the face of the country? I don't believe it's in the report, at least I couldn't find it. As early as 2007, I warned the Anti-Corruption Agency that the president of the Indji municipality was incompatibility, that he had also become a consultant in the conflict of interest. We got the answer that it's incompatible with his function and that it's in conflict of interest. However, there is no such thing in your report. At the end of the year, the gentleman confessed to his apartment in Vienna and his apartment in Novi Sad, and it seems to me, which has been in possession for five years. I showed those photos here. The unseen property he acquired, and you're dealing with the property of politicians, houses on Tatar Hill, etc., apartment in Vienna, house for uncles, running, etc., everyone said it wasn't true. That gentleman just reported it. But, look at the wonders. He said he had just obtained it by providing advisory services and that he had bought an apartment in Vienna for that money. If you told him in 2007 that there was a conflict of interest or an appropriate state body, how did he earn money at counseling services to buy an apartment in Vienna and increase his assets enormously? Isn't that proof of obvious corruption? Let's move on. Since the resident of Serbia has been on the territory of this country for more than six months, I ask you, did you check whether he paid taxes on those advisory services that were otherwise illegal, as you claimed? What's with the case? Will he be in the Anti-Corruption Agency's report too? So even when I pointed out that I was lying, from a group of 3%, they said to tell the truth, that it wasn't true, but in the end, the gentleman with a delay reported it. I see there's no India on the list of audits made in 2011 and I don't think there will be any. And you certainly know why. So, no public-communal enterprise, nor local self-government, was the subject of the revision in 2011 as far as I can see. So, the Indji municipality, as a public company, is completely excluded and I guess I know why, but since you're an independent regulatory body, I won't say it. You are also designed to remove the causes leading to corruption, to expose irregularities that are made by individuals, and that is exactly what I am trying to point out. You are also in these disclosures to see especially what leads individuals to the financing of political entities and campaigns, so I will now ask you both, and I have already asked this parliamentary question, as follows: During the election campaign between two rounds, and the subject of the audit and control of the Anti-Corruption Agency was not the Regional Fund for the Development of Agriculture, a legal person from the territory of the Indji municipality 14. In the 05th, 19 million 728 thousand were paid 961 dinars. Otherwise, it's about the party donor 3%. So it's a legal face. Day 15. The 05th natural person, who owns that legal entity, received 17 million 529 thousand 437 dinars. Look, it's a period between two rounds of choice. So you're going to be doing a review of that and you're going to have to put it in the report, not mentioning Zajcar. We're going to be doing the rabbit next year. So, a total of over 37 million between the two rounds of selection of grants from the Regional Agricultural Development Fund, which, of course, was neither the subject of any revision nor the subject of another report. It happened between two rounds of choice. The money was won by an DS donor. The money was non-refundable for the gulf systems it didn't have. The election was, but the bay systems weren't, they didn't happen. Let's move on. Also at the expense of that legal person from one sugarcane, a miracle, just between two circles, more than 50 million dinars were paid, which were reportedly paid for sugar beet to farmers. With the tax check, farmers did not get the money, but the money arrived only between the two rounds of the election, i.e. in the election campaign. I have an open suspicion that sugar is like a legal person, that these individuals were transferring money, and the tax control found it, which was raised in cash, miracles, just in cash, in the name of the water system, in the name of the sugar beet advance for a dozen agricultural producers who didn't have a sugar tail at all. I doubt that money went to the campaign for the province elections and that this is how what Pajtic Bojan is getting today. So, you're in charge of controlling these political entities, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and when the DRI gets there they'll have to seriously check it out, as I ask to check the business of the Trustee for equality of trust. Take the stenogram from my speech yesterday, and if something isn't true, I'm undermining it again, I'm resigning. I don't expect that from the others. There's a doctor there, a law professor. I'm after his claims that I carried out I don't know what, some pressure, etc. Really worried about his students to whom he teaches. Let's move on. You should also check all the people, as someone said, who put their hand in someone else's pocket. In the 1990s, in which I was the opposition, they were turbulent, but this year 2010, 2011 and 2012, in which I found such a divisive, abandoned state, so corrupt, that I never dreamed I would find it in my life. You need to seriously check what happened in that period, who got rich, who put his hand in his pocket. I agree that the tycoons remain behind Milosevic, but the money they took during his term of office through privatisation and dredging has been multiplied several times. They're the generator of it, they're funding political campaigns, they're hanging out with political leaders, they're the source of corruption. So you need to review and see the link between tycoon companies of political parties, political leaders, whatever that is. So, as far as I'm concerned, my party, and I believe the MP groups I belong to, we're open to any kind of control. I've seen a lot of election campaigns, but I haven't seen one like 2012 in my life. I haven't seen in a municipality of nine thousand free tickets to pensioners, just before the elections. I've never seen nine thousand packages of free life supplies, never in my life. Those who shared, they got eight thousand and some votes and today they're the loudest. Also, we need to create some kind of society that will be a chance for honest people. The chance of honest in this society, gentlemen from both independent regulatory bodies, the chance of honest in this society is the chance of a snowball in hell. That's the situation we found. We have to make a state chance. There have never been any independent regulatory bodies in this country, and never again found corruption, if that's okay with you. There's a couple of these fines. I believe you don't have enough staff. He's got a few fines. After these several criminal penalties, most likely by law, that it can't be otherwise, and then we have to change the law, there are several penalties, the report is being prepared, all fair, the money is gone. Such a situation is, in my opinion, unsustainable. So you have full support as far as we're concerned, if we need to change the laws, if we need to increase the number of auditors, if we need to increase the number of officials at the Anti-Corruption Agency, then we need to do it. We farmers say, "When the weeds are cleansed, and the field is well rooted, then we use total." Then totally destroying the weeds is the only way to save the crops. That's right here. Total destruction of corruption is the only chance to save this people. You'll always have my support in that. It has to break practice, no matter who was in power earlier, that the officials serve the state. The officials need to serve the state. We've found officials who've made public business their own private businesses. And the leader of that 3% group, where all the media is poor, he deals with the media, he's unseenly rich. He's proof of how to drag his hand into someone else's pocket. Also, it is a privilege to serve your country. They served the country. I must remind you that tomorrow is June 28th. It's a big day for Serbs tomorrow. It's not just the day we delivered Milosevic, it's not just the day of the Kosovo battle. It's a day that has high goals and ideas, when the organization "Young Bosnia" and Gavrilo Principe shot Ferdinand. Today Gabriel no longer fires, but principles have broken. And these three percent, who don't know the difference between a man and a thief, if they want to see thieves, put their main board in front of a mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19675	Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19676	I understand the fascination of some people with Vidovdan. I understand the fascination of the ruling coalition gathered around the SNS, the fascination of that tomorrow. But there's no date tomorrow. You must make arrangements on your main committee when it will be Vidovdan this year, whether in October, whether in November, whether next year. But, you know, I'm gonna give you a quick answer, 'cause with some people it's not worth getting laid. European integration means that your ego, your ego, your ego-centricism that you express in sentence -- we are the smartest, we are the most complex, we are the best, we are always right, to replace this rhetoric a little bit, and to see yourself in the context of a small, underdeveloped and undeveloped country, which is just because you have made it, with your persistent policy of refusing European integration, and you have made it during the previous management and rule of this country, when you have also been a retaining pause, not even advocating death to some, such as Zoran Djindjic. Now, what can I tell you, other than to ask you – can anyone really put their conscience to sleep, to break the thought as a thread, to ban themselves from thinking about the consequences of his actions, from wanting to know about him? Well, it looks like it can. (President: Time. () The urge, and the urge to maintain power, protects you with complete forgetfulness and that to your soul, on Vidovday, not to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19677	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, I'm not going to give you the right to a replica. You challenged Mr. Milivojevic's replica. We interrupt the replica, we're away from the subject. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19678	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Articles 103, 104, 105, 106 and 107. So, you have the discretionary right to choose who you give the replica or not. (President: You have wronged a member of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately. Article 103 regulates the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So the right to replica is regulated by Article 104.) I said - 103, 104, 105, 106 and 107. So I have the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, Article 104 speaks of the rights of the replica. I'm telling you, if you had a discretionary right, that's exactly what I'm explaining, to give a replica of your discretionary right, but some conditions must be met before. It's regulated in a few views before that. So it must be an MP mentioned by name, it must be a direct address. Since the previous speaker was not the head of the parliamentary group, so I didn't even mention the parliamentary group, I mentioned the 3% group. (President: I'm sorry, I'll explain now. You mentioned something else, here's the answer. Wait till I'm finished, I'm still advertising the Rules of Procedure. Don't be so impatient. Not wanting to move on with you, not asking to vote on this, I just want us to be equal in front of the Rules of Procedure and in front of you, nothing else. So, no problem. I don't like the way the Rules of Procedure breaks at the expense of the opposition. You'd better break it on my behalf, but let's face it, you and I, too, rather than break it on his. Is that enough? Thank you. You don't need to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19679	Now let me explain, I could have done it right away, because I understood you well. So, in your presentation, you mentioned part of Mr. Milivojevic's exposure. In addition to what you have stated, Article 104 mentions the misreading of the previous speaker. That's why you're taking care of it. So I'm really deciding to give him the right to a replica and I gave him on that basis, and you know well, look at the stenographic notes, what you said, and I listen to you very carefully. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19680	The Honorable Chairman, right away, let me say in the beginning that I, as my fellow opposition parties, will not speak what is outside the report, but what is in the 2012 report and the 2011 comparison. I think we got a lot of distance from the subject today in the afternoon. Let me say that today we have two very important independent bodies in front of us. Reports, right at the beginning, were made up very well, comprehensively and transparently, with some recommendations to this National Assembly of ours and therefore the SNS, as the headquarters of this fight against corruption, will unanimously support reports by the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI. So let me do it one more time. We will support the reports, for two reasons -- the first, because the SNS was the first to fight corruption and the second, which is probably familiar to you, if you've seen the transmissions of these National Assemblys, which is SNS, and here I am telling you, as a MP very often in a year, I've quoted your reports, and those who spoke about the current government have never considered the report. Right away, this is a report for the government, the previous eight months and this one, four months. I will not therefore speak as my predecessors, and I have listened to all and one discussion, "we will see", but what the report says, and then "we expect" instead of what the report says, the current and future authorities, but what the government did in 2012, about fighting corruption and DRI. Dear representatives of state institutions, let me say that corruption and crime destroys our system, destroys our society and our state. Never in history, as a historian, I tell you, as I do now, and therefore the fight against crime and corruption is a first-class task not only of the government and the first vice-president of the government and the Coordinator of the fight against corruption, but of every minister and government in general, of the local self-government, as you have stated in your reports, public, private enterprises, state authorities and what is important we do, but also of us Members of the public. The Anti-Corruption Agency's report is good, especially on it, a few sentences especially on the DRI, good, although it dealt with the question of the director who has subjected to illegal actions whose issue you yourself have solved, ladies and gentlemen from the Anti-Corruption Agency, which strengthens your independent institution as a state regulatory body. That's your strength. The Serbian Progressive Party will always give you support. It's been passing through here for two days, and your agency's evidence is that the director has made a mistake and she's had to answer, and you've fought it. I'd be happy to put yesterday's problem of one regulatory body on the agenda and have you audit it. By supporting your report in the fight against corruption, I stress the chapter you mentioned in the report, raising awareness of the need to fight corruption is extremely important. We haven't said a word here today, you have to agree with the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI, we haven't heard. How do you do that? I often speak in this assembly through educational institutions. We have to put that in textbooks. So advanced democratic countries work, sports and other organisations, local self-government, NGOs, and, behold, no one will mention political parties, all of them, so if you want the Serbian Assembly, which has proven by putting these reports on the agenda and thanks to the Assembly, this meeting is being talked about reports in the fight against corruption. Let me finish on your institution. When it comes to large-scale crime and corruption, which were not mentioned here today, it has been very declarative and those who have succumbed to it should be prosecuted, imprisoned and punished in accordance with the law and, what is very important, take away property and return to the robbed citizens of Serbia. I hope this Assembly will adopt the law on the origin of the property in a month, and the SNS is really in favour and you will get full support in that. Furthermore, a few words about the DRI report, I am proud to speak of you. There's no assembly where I haven't quoted your reports. An extremely significant institution whose findings need to be used by more of these MPs, reports rather than verbal support. You'll hear two, three examples from your reports. I often use, as I said, your reports, and I must say, gentlemen of the DRI, that when I present information regarding violations of the law, I do not come across the well-intentioned approval of opposition parties, especially when it comes to officials. I'm even being ridiculed, and they didn't find it appropriate for any of your reports to be read. If we had used more of your 2011 and 2012 reports, therefore, for which you are reporting here, then we would have come across a data that no one has mentioned today that one minister in the former government of the former regime has damaged Serbia's budget by 270 million dinars, quote your report -- in the acquisition of a mobile radio-real connection system, via "Yugochemia" in exchange for exchange rates. Is Mr. Sretenovic familiar with this information from your report? I ask you in front of the citizens of Serbia and in front of all the MPs. If not, I'll quote you the page of the report and the daily press that informed us, next to the report. Or the next report by the auditors, the same minister paid for a year's upgrade of software for VMA 850m euros in 2010. Four times what that computer program cost when it was bought. Do you know Mr. Sretenovic, which former minister, the former government is involved? You know, I can see you're smiling. But both Serbian citizens and MPs should know. This is how you talk about your report. This is what's in your reports. I've mentioned this before, and now it's time because no one can interrupt me in the discussion when the reports are now, the time has finally come for me to say it one more time. Or, the former minister in the former government only for 2011, illegally spent 15 million dinars on gifts. Do you know who the minister is? Of course, I can see that you're smiling, too. That's what we need to talk about here today. You want hundreds more data from your reports. You will, of course you will, but there are no colleagues from the opposition parties who say, we will see, we hope. This is a report for the former government, and we'll talk about the next one. Let me say one more thing. Please don't bother me. I appeal to the chairman that you respect the Rules of Procedure and that I am not interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19681	Let's respect the Rules of Procedure, please don't disturb your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19682	Do you know, Mr. State Auditor, this quote from your report – that posters and billboards with messages clean Serbia, cost more than half a million euros paid for advertising in one daily list? I can probably see you're smiling. You want me to say the date. Of course it's not necessary because I said it once. That I don't stand hundreds of these examples for 2011 and 2012. Allow me, today is one MP, you have heard here, from a minor political party whose party leader, is the leader of the parliamentary group, and came only three times in a year, and I am here regularly in the Assembly, called in the framework of the Minister's report in the current government, which was not the report by Mr. Bačević for the Morava-Vardar channel. To inform the same about the truth, and you check it out. That Mr. Bacevic was one of the first people in Serbia to advocate South Stream, and here he was in this home when I was not an MP but a citizen and closely followed what was going on in this assembly, known to advocate fairy tales, to advocate co-operation with the governors and the yellow people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19683	Mr. Atlagic, I am obliged to comply with the Rules of Procedure to remind you that we are talking about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19684	Of course it's the subject because this was brought out today by opposition MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19685	That's not the subject of the agenda, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19686	Let me just say the closing sentence. How important is the South Stream that you can freely examine for the citizens of Serbia and the region, I think it is too much to say. That's how it's gonna be with the Morava Canal. A run state isn't a game it's a serious thing. In the end, the gentlemen who attacked the ruling coalition, I must say, the final sentence, destroyed our country, destroyed our present, destroyed our children's future if only a year had been left, would have destroyed our roots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19687	Thank you. The word is from the peoples of Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19688	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, we're all tired, someone more, someone less, just another brief address for you, respected representatives of these institutions. You heard a lot today. My request was at the outset, so I will finish it, not paying attention to what is not in accordance with the law on the basis of which you are founded and as far as the practices you establish in cooperation with the Assembly committees, with the Assembly and other competent institutions are concerned. In the future, there is much greater responsibility on you than on independent institutions, but on parties, and whenever you hear that a party, beating into your heart or table, promises that it will protect or attack you in the future, it is completely irrelevant. First, the MPs have immunity, so you have no reason to trust them. They're talking to their voters. Secondly, God forbid the parties should protect independent institutions. They must be protected by the law, by the institutions that are responsible for it, and you contribute to it and it is good that it exists in the report by, on the one hand, training your own teams to distinguish competences, how to precisely within the framework of the galamis of legal and sublegal acts that are often, or in the opposite or different period of validity, how to ensure that the essence of the work that you do, and it is different, is achieved at the benefit of citizens, society and institutions in the future. Of course, do not expect the MPs to know, so you have often heard that there is no basic knowledge of what is control and what are regulatory bodies. But you do. It's in the law. But, you know, it also says in an explanation for some members, so pay good attention to what was written in the explanation of the law for a member. As for the dry text of the article, if you were to literally execute it, you would find yourself in a situation of white strike, so the congestion of work, and you could not even perform your function. When it comes to the Agency, this function is too far-reaching, preventative that, through the existence, functioning and amendments of the law and the help of the Assembly, as one who is in charge of performing this control function and above you, you can accomplish many more and more other functions in the future. To make it clear to citizens, it cannot be expected from the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is not a body that can prevent corruption, such as the police, a traffic body that can prevent traffic accidents. But you're setting up a signalling, you're explaining what the violations are and you're still, as well as traffic police, she can't even punish an MP when she crosses the street, because there's a higher reason why you can't stop him right now, or the minister, or the rotational light, but those are exceptions, but you're setting up a signalling that allows you all, whether they belong to a foreigner or not, whether they're in a hurry or have an emergency job or not, to move easier in traffic. It is the same through the forest of regulations and clearly defining what public interests are, what the powers of the agency are, and you allow those authorities of the state, which are both capable and powerful and paid, unfortunately, at this stage of society, not to be powerful enough or paid. Don't even expect anyone to be grateful to you. That's how it is in public life, but your job is to keep providing visibility, passing, and what's particularly important, I've talked about it with regard to DRI, the reality of solving some of the situations that have been legally solved multiple times. It is therefore important that you use the public on the one hand, and on the other hand, not to be abused by the public. You'll have a whole series of mechanisms to establish, not on me as a People's MP, but on the other hand, and vice versa, when one of your employees reads that there's something about a person around whom there's a procedure, you have to inform a superior, warn him that there's no officer of the people. I guess that would be his party, because no one in the congregation is his superior. When it comes to local self-government, the Anti-Corruption Agency has made it clear where there are problems. Check what needs to be done by this very National Assembly, what kind of changes to the law, what kind of activities, to create conditions that you can carry out your activities more easily and faster. Once again, I ask you not to put two things on hold in the future. This is served by the competent committees of the Assembly to help you, to create preconditions for the government of Serbia, where it finance from the budget, to make presentations, what is the essence of your work, which is the benefit of citizens and institutions, and that, by example, positive and negative, the same applies to the Citizens' Protector, the same applies to trustees, to create a common, wider area in which everyone will be clearly benefited from the activities of these institutions. Finally, I'll remind you of what I pointed out today. When I proposed in 2005 and 2006, the National Assembly adopted the Institute of Special Sessions, and one of the reasons is that it would not be able to abuse and prevent the authority that submits the report, which is independent and which should continue to work, so that someone would not prevent it from being ambushed or vice versa, because the Assembly is ambushed, prolonging the possibility of submitting the report. At a special session, which is the only session where people can really address and those who submit reports to the current Rules of Procedure, this session can also be held at the time of this session, at which the President of the People's Order, you can always have that advantage and you can also inform the public and remind whoever is the President of the National Assembly, whatever the National Assembly is calling, whether it's happening or not. In the case that the Agency has given, that there has been this awareness, there is no reason that at the time your report is ready in April 2012, no special session is scheduled, no matter what the elections will be and will change, no meeting will be scheduled for May 21st when you submit the report and the public will hear it, no matter what the results of the election are and no matter what the different convocation will be after the confirmation of May 11th. So we all have to do it together and separate this, because in the meantime there's politics. I hope that MPs will take this as a joke, only in Serbia we have to explain that there must be former ministers of the former government, former ministers of the current government and current ministers of the former government, and that it is difficult to understand, but it is your job not to take care of it, but that, just as it is considered, in line with the real set of legal powers, you continue to do your job and at the same time allow the space of this job to spread in the interest of everyone. I am sure, not self-URS, that all MP groups, regardless of which party lists they come from, will support these reports and thus create an opportunity for all of us to live in a more orderly society. Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19689	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19690	Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to say that it has been a pleasure for us to read the reports of the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, as we have been instructed, but also the pleasure to read and discuss yesterday's report by the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. These are excellent reports, independent bodies, reports that can help us a lot, where and of course all well-intentioned criticisms will be taken into account. I would also like to inform you that tomorrow the Assembly will discuss, among other things, the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2013/2018. A year. Here I especially thank those present at the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, as they were members of the task force, or your experts were members of a task force formed by the Ministry of Justice. This strategy will contribute much once, let's say, to the legal framework, but also to the institutional framework against corruption, as we will also discuss tomorrow the Strategy for Justice Reform, which I believe will also be very interesting for you. Finally, I would like to say that there will be a serious discussion of the potential, if there is a need through public discussions, of course, which have now become common, which has not been recently, there will certainly be discussions and the need to change the roof laws that regulate the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, or DRI. We've also received some suggestions that I find extremely interesting. I think citizens will find it interesting, let's say, that the Anti-Corruption Agency has proposed to expand the circle of persons for whom the officials report the property, to expand the circle of persons considered to be related. This will certainly contribute to reducing the level of corruption in Serbia and that Serbia, which is inherited at a very low level of perception of the fight against corruption, i.e. at a very high level of corruption, as the perception has the EU, is to once put an end to this chapter and to really full lung, full force, full capacity, moving towards the EU, and we see that we will certainly get the date as soon as possible. On behalf of the SNS, I thank you again. We'll follow the reports carefully. All committees that are competent to assist in the work of any agency, be it DRI, are at your disposal. Of course, this applies to the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, which I am headed for, that we may reorganise public debates. I will remind you that one of these public debates, which has been visited, was Mr. Deger, a debate on lobbying, which we have just organised in co-operation with the Anti-Corruption Agency, and we have produced a result. The idea of lobbying law appears in the Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2013/2018. If nothing, we broke some taboos with that public discussion. We have shown our citizens that we have had lobbying about the EU or on some other international issues of our country might have gone better, and we know that some of our opponents have politically had serious lobbyists. So co-operation isn't just declarative. Co-operation has its own bodywork through both laws and public gatherings. I invite you, if you are interested in any other public gatherings, public listening or international conferences, we are at your disposal. Once again, we thank you for the report and believe me, it has been a pleasure to welcome the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, whose president I am, and to adopt these reports. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19691	Thank you. Whether or not the proposing's representatives want a word. (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Sretenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19692	First of all, I want to thank all the MPs for today's discussion, extremely constructive, for the remarks and suggestions we have been given. But I also want to answer the questions that are being asked today. Although Mrs Radmila Gerov was not present, the question was that eight recommendations were not implemented, and these are recommendations made during 2011, which relate to the 2010 budget year. It is true that eight recommendations have not been implemented, and these are recommendations made through an act to regulate the criteria for the implementation of the Security Act. It is the recommendations given through the act to regulate the criteria for implementing the Food Safety Act, funding programmes and projects and procurement of cystics, and three recommendations given by JP "JAT Airways" and JP "The Railways of Serbia". I must point out that the DRI during its adoption of the revision programme for next year, and always during the year for the next financial year, takes care of the choice of users and audit entities. Each selection of audit entities is based on precisely defined criteria for each sector, such as Budgetary fund audit sector. The criteria were whether the beneficiaries of the budget were covered by the previous budget audit for 2008, 2009 and 2010. Also, I am taking the opportunity to say that, through its previous reports, DRI has covered all ministries for the time being by reviewing financial reports. One of the criteria is the participation of the total planned expenditure and the expenditure of beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the total planned expenditure and expenditure of the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, the total planned own revenue of the beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget of total planned own revenues, planned in the budget for the previous year, as well as the absolute amount of over three million dinars. On the basis of such criteria for each DRI sector, the audit has started. I also want to get to know the public, although it is covered on our website, that this year the final budget of the Republic of Serbia is being audited. A revision of certain expenditures and expenditures has also been launched by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the High Council of the judiciary. We also re-audited the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which was done in 2010. The revision covers the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Geodetic Institute. In the budget audit sector of the local authorities, audits were started and audits were carried out of the City of Loznica, the municipality of Arangelovac, the municipality of Bosilegrad, the municipality of Kosjerić, the municipality of Prokuplje, Belgrade, the municipality of Surcin, Belgrade, the municipality of Vracar, the municipality of Sokobanja, the municipality of Milonica, the municipality of Topola, the municipality of Indji, the municipality of Temerin, the municipality of Titel, the municipality of Ćićevac, the municipality of Medvedja, Nis, the town municipality of Red Krst, in the audit and organisation of compulsory social security. The audit is under way by the Republic Fund for PIO, KC Vojvodina in Novi Sad, as well as the Social Insurance Fund for Military Insurance in the sector for the revision of public enterprises, companies and legal entities. The audit is held at the New Sad GSP in Novi Sad, JP "City Housing Agency" in Nis. That audit is complete with the draft. RTS Belgrade, JP EPs Belgrade, JP PTT traffic in Serbia, Belgrade, JKP for public garages and parking spaces "Parking Service", Belgrade, JKP "Belgrade Power Plants" Belgrade, JKP "Standard" Vrbas, Electricity Distribution Company "Yugostock" Nis, JKP "Parking Service Kragujevac" from Kragujevac, JPY "Toplana" Bor, JP Fruska Gora National Park, Sremska Kamenica, a company for electricity distribution of EDB. In the National Bank Audit Sector in the section relating to the use of public funds. A revision of the NBS was also launched, followed by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of the Republic of Serbia in Belgrade, as well as the public debt of the Republic of Serbia for 2012 under the Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Public Debt Administration. In view of the fact that the audit programme is confidential until the moment of initiation of the audit, I cannot declare which other entities are audit entities. I would especially like to emphasise that independent bodies as direct beneficiaries of budget funds are also subject to audit and in this case to your question. The trustee of equality as a direct user shall be the subject of the audit. Given that today is the first time that our report is debated in plenary, the Work Report, as well as that this has been an opportunity to point out all the objections in the work and suggestions that you have suggested, of course I thank you for the support you are giving us today in your work, I assure you that the DRI will continue to work independently, professionally and transparently and will continue to insist on respecting the law. Also, against all those who do not comply with the DRI law, they will take appropriate measures in their jurisdiction, no matter which person they are concerned with. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia for its extraordinary good and constructive co-operation over the past periods. We are prepared to continue to cooperate with all MPs, of course and with independent bodies, and we will continue to do so. We are prepared even to hold one workshop, to meet all MPs on the way of work and on the very process of carrying out the audit from the moment of planning the audit, the implementation of the audit itself and the submission of final reports. Also, at the local level, in co-operation with UNDP, we are working to raise awareness about the importance of the introduction and existence of a system of financial management of internal audits, internal control, particularly members of the city council, mayors, the head of the city finance administration and municipalities, as well as the indication of the results so far and the weaknesses detected during the revision of local authorities. Thank you and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19693	Thank you. The word has Tatjana Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19694	Dear People's MPs, first of all, I would like to thank you for your willingness to support the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the willingness to co-operate in the future. It is for the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency of great importance. Here's why. Here one MP asked the question, how is it that the Agency’s recommendations, or measures, remain without its epilogue? I, as a representative of the Agency, can say that this is not a question for the Anti-Corruption Agency, but I can answer it. The Agency shall take whatever is within its jurisdiction. Therefore, it implements a procedure in which it determines whether the official has violated the Act on the Agency and, as a final measure, may recommend the resolution of officials from a public function, or, if it is a functionary directly elected by citizens, it may publicly announce the decision that the functionator has violated the law. The Agency, too, may not only be able, but is required under the law to address the request to initiate appropriate proceedings before other competent authorities, because almost every violation of the Agency's law, withdraws criminal liability, and the Agency's law provides for one crime, not to report property, or to provide false property information. That's what's within the Agency's authority. One MP mentioned the Law of Origin of Assets, it is true that there is no understanding in the public regarding the authority of agencies, because the Agency does not have the authority to control, or to determine the origin of the property of the officials. We have the authority to control the accuracy of the data and the completeness of the report that the functionors submit to the Agency. In this regard, for us it is of great importance that interinstitutional co-operation has been significantly intensified this year in relation to the past, so in order to increase the efficiency of the control of the property of the officials, the Agency has developed significant co-operation with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and other competent prosecutors. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has its own anti-corruption department, specialising in this area and the Agency has intensive co-operation with them. We have developed good co-operation with misdemeanor courts and with all authorities and organisations that have the data we need to perform our duties under our jurisdiction, which is the Tax Administration, the Money Laundering Prevention Authority, the Republic Geodetic Institute, the APR and others. It is very important that the public understands that the Agency has no investigative powers and that only in collaboration with other bodies that have such powers can significant results and some progress in this area be achieved. Here, too, several MPs have raised a question for the area of fight against corruption, and this is a matter of alarming and I can only agree that the way it is now regulated is inadequate. Therefore, the protection of alarmers is in a certain way within the Agency's jurisdiction under the current law, but is limited only to public sector alarmers, in state authorities. It has been completely abandoned by a private sector that also has a high potential for corruption. Secondly, it is limited only to cases of corruption, and there are a large number of other illegalities and irregularities that can also seriously endanger public interest. That agency has no authority. What I was about to say when it comes to funding political activities, the Agency has already stepped up this year's work. Since the beginning of this year, we have submitted a total of 208 requests to launch infringement procedures for not submitting a report on the previous election campaign. They are mostly and almost all political entities at the municipal level. The following period will continue to submit appropriate requirements to the relevant authorities. When it comes to certain individual cases mentioned here, I cannot talk about these cases because the Agency Act provides that the public is excluded in the proceedings before the Agency. Until the Agency finds that the officer has broken the law, we cannot discuss the details of the procedure. When it comes to controlling the property of officials, our official internet presentation provides information on which officials are covered by the regular verification plan and when the Agency closes the verification process, it is also published on the website. I wanted to tell you so much. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-27-0.u19695	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. I thank all the participants. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momir Stojanović, Dejan Rajčić, Vera Paunović, Marko Jakšić, Branko Ružić, Miletic Mihajlović, Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović, Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komić, Meko Omerović and Vesna Milekić. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, for a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of Proposed Minister Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration, has called for the sittings to attend: Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Cedomir Backović, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration Milica Kolaković Bojovic, Advisor at the Office of Justice and State Administration, Radomir Ilic, Special Advisor of the Minister of Justice and State Administration, Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue to work and move on to a common single search on the 6th and 7th points of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on items 6 and 7 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 192 and Article 97 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've got a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a NATIONAL STRATEGY OF THE REFORM OF THE JUSTICE FOR PURPOSE 2013/2018. YEARS AND PROPOSAL OF NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR THE FIGHT OF CORRUPTION IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR THE Period of 2013 This Regulation shall YEAR Does the Proposer's representative, Nikola Selakovic, minister of justice and state administration, want a word? Yeah. )
