ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-15-0.u12438	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the first annual session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I called this session on the basis of article 120. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may convene a solemn session of the National Assembly and invite the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, representatives of other bodies and organisations from the country and abroad to address the National Assembly. I called on the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to address the MPs. I'd like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 89. The Rules of Procedure also called on the members to attend, in addition to the President of the Republic: President and members of the Government, His Holiness the Patriarch of Serbia's Iriney, honorary fathers, representatives of religious communities in the Republic of Serbia, members of the diplomatic court, representatives of state institutions and winners of the honour of the Republic of Serbia. It is my honor to welcome, on behalf of the Members of the People, all the honored guests. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, members of the Government, Your Holiness, Honorary Fathers, Representatives of the Religious Communities in the Republic of Serbia, Excellencys, winner of medals, representatives of state institutions, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly dedicated to meeting – Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia. Intonating the hymns. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear guests, will speak to us from the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-15-0.u12440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Holiness, Your Honor's Fathers, Your Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen, On this day of 209 years ago the First Serbian Uprising was erected, and 178 years ago, the Sentinel Constitution, the first democratic constitution of Serbia was passed. Successes in the first and second Serbian uprising in European history, known as the Serbian revolution, have allowed the foundations of the modern Serbian nation and state to be laid at the time of the reign of Prince Milos Obrenovic. The Happy Constitution contained the most modern civilizational solutions of that time. It established democracy in Serbia and created the basis for resolving the important issues of then-Serbian society, such as national emancipation, the breaking of feudal institutions and human rights. The constitution was modelled by the French Constitutional Charters of 1814 and 1830 and the Belgian Constitution of 1831. It is one of the first democratic constitutions in Europe and shows that as soon as conditions are obtained, an organised state is created, based on basic principles of justice. The constitution was adopted at a meeting of the National Assembly, held on February 15, 1835, on the great Christian holiday of Meeting. The assembly was held in the Port of the Orthodox Church in Kragujevac, then representatives of the Principality. With the constitution Milos limited his authority, saying: "I swear to the world, one-Hearing and indivisible trinity, that I will keep the Constitution of the Library of Cerbia in full and in full, and that I will keep everyone in full, that I will also defend the integrity of the Orthodox Church of Cerbia, that I will keep all the powers and means in full and the universal freedom of the person and the security of the property and the rights of every Serb, and finally I will strive to provide and raise myself more well and all the peoples of the Serbian peoples in general and every Serb in particular, so help me God. "A special section of the Constitution is dedicated to the personal rights of citizens, the integrity of personal freedom, the integrity of property, the freedom of religion. Special attention is devoted to equality and the right to choice of life. The constitution also contained provisions relating to a certain number of procedural rights, such as no bis and I am going, a zero-crimen son of a leg, the right to appeal to a higher authority, a ban on the retroactiveness of the law. The constitution explicitly prohibits slavery, spouting: "As a slave enters the Serbian country, the hour becomes free, or whoever brings him to Serbia, or I flee to it." However, the adoption of the Sretenjski Constitution did not come across approval abroad. It has been objected that it is unimaginable that Serbia has a constitution that does not have a majority of European countries. Even the question was, what will Serbia's ministries and, among them, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and what will the flag do to Serbia? There were, in their opinion, revolutionary elements that came first from France. The suspension of the Constitution has been requested. It is explained by a simple sensation – the constitution should be changed because it has introduced a French breakdown into the Turkish forest. Prince Milos withdrew the published Constitution. He wanted to run his country on his own. He fulfilled the demands of his people, but he had to obey the will of the forces he depended on. That is why the historic path of the Serbian constitutionality was filled with thorns, full of ups and downs, wiped by winds from the east and west. The constitutions of Serbia, either national or octoised, modern or less modern, have been influenced by the historical burden of eternal dependence on other people's will or better to say self-will. We can be proud of our legal tradition, regardless of the difficult historical circumstances. From the Dušan code of six independent constitutions which Serbia had as a Principality, and then as a Kingdom, brought 1135, 1138, 1869, 1888, 1901, to the modern constitutions and valid from 2006, Serbia has a bright tradition, which is hardly lagging behind in other European countries. This was the most contributed by our customs, which our ancestors, once in our songs, once in their lectures, passed from generation to generation, as well as the universal values that are woven into the essence of our being. The customs are the basic source of each of our regulations, the law, the constitution. That's why we have unhinged honesty, respect for others, patriotism, freedom of mind. That's how it's been for centuries in Serbia. The power of the constitution stems from the willingness and determination of every citizen to defend him. Without the support of the citizens, constitutional rights would only be guaranteed on paper as a list of good wishes, bound by words and works of great ancestors, who under extremely difficult circumstances managed to preserve our country. And today we must defend Serbia, a beautiful, democratic state, woven from the victims of all who fell to defend it, to preserve Serbia within its borders. Maybe tomorrow some mind heads will make fun of my words. They'll write and say that the victims of temptation are pointless. Serbia is a democratic country in which it is possible. I wish they had a role model for those who write and speak about their country and live in EU Member States, for example. Serbia has changed, allowing everyone to express their every thought loudly and unpunishedly. If Serbia had existed before, I would never have been in prison because of spoken words. If Serbia had existed before, many would have been in prison long ago for crimes committed. But even after the darkest nights will dawn morning. We have fought for democracy, we are fighting crime, we are struggling to hire Serbia, we are negotiating with temporary institutions in Pristina, and we rightly expect a date for negotiations with the EU. We must not lose hope, and we will not stop a righteous effort to preserve our territory and the identity of our heart and soul, Kosovo and Metohija. And today, the current words of Knjiz Milos and all those who before us created Serbia as a state in which they live under the democratic constitution. That's why I'm telling you that I've been chosen to defend Serbia, upholding the precise and secure Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There's no one else I'd listen to. I expect you, the elected representatives of the citizens, to focus all your efforts on a common goal – the preservation of our being in our country, the proud Serbia. I congratulate all citizens of Serbia on Statehood Day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-15-0.u12441	I thank President Tomislav Nikolic. On the occasion of Statehood Day, the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, decorated responsible individuals and institutions. I ask the President of the Commission for the Remarks of Professor Oliver Antic to read the apparitions and the President of the Republic to hand over medals.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-15-0.u12442	Dearly beloved, let me explain in a few words the indications that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has given every concrete distinction. The primary school "Lazar Savatic" represents an example of an educational institution that, in its work, especially in cultural activities, connects traditionally and modernly. The elementary school "Lazar Savatic" from Zemun was awarded with a silver medal for special merits in educational work and for 50 years of work. I ask the head of the school of Mr. Ilija Jovicic to receive a medal on behalf of the students and professor of the "Lazar Savatic" school. The first Belgrade singing society was founded 160 years ago, on January 14, 1853. From a singing society founded by a group of citizens, the choir has over time grown into a true national institution that preserves and continues Serbia's musical and spiritual tradition. The repertoire of the choir cultivates world and spiritual music, both in performing and composing terms. The world's guests included the programme's orientation on Serbian national treasures and Slovenian music creation. With Stevan Mokranjc, the company sang at the celebration of 900 years of Orthodoxism in Russia, and as one, the only visiting choir at the invitation of the Russian church will sing at the celebration of thousands of years of Orthodoxism. To cultivate and promote Serbian music art and tradition, and for 160 years of work, the first Belgrade singing society is decorated with a gold medal for merits. I would like the protoire of statophora Peter Lukic, an elder of the Assembly Church in Belgrade and the president of the First Belgrade Society to receive a medal. Pilot Goran Savic, succeeded in inhuman efforts to land the aircraft in a safe place, in a settlement, thus preserving the lives of citizens and material goods. Pilot Goran Savic died on September 26th in a school plane crash he managed. Major Goran Savic, was posthumously awarded a gold medal for the courage of Milos Obilić, for his courage and the work of personal heroism. I ask my wife, Mrs. Gordana Savik, to receive the medal. Tomislav Bećaglić, the pilot of the Flight Affairs Department, the Centre for Annual Studies technically – experienced, conducting regular technical testing of the aircraft due to the cancellation of the command, and in order to avoid the accident of larger scales, managed to indicate the plane to an empty space between buildings and thus prevent the threat of life, property in the inhabited area, and was injured himself. Lieutenant Colonel Tomislav Bećaglić was awarded a gold medal for the courage "Milos Obilić", for the courage and the work of personal heroism, and I ask Colonel Tomislav Bećaglavić to receive the medal. Slavisa Markovic, senior first-class sergeant, died on duty while clearing the ground from cluster bombs in Kopalnik in August 2012. Slavisa Markovic, senior first-class sergeant, was posthumously decorated with a medal for the defence and security of the second-degree for honoring the duties of defence and security tasks. I ask my wife, Mrs. Sladjana Markovic, to receive this award. Nebojsa Milic, senior first-class sergeant, died on duty while clearing the terrain from cluster bombs on the Kopalnik on the same date. Nebojsa Milic, senior first-class sergeant, was posthumously decorated with a medal for the defence and security of the second-degree for honoring the duties of defence and security tasks. I ask my wife, Mrs. Milanka Milic, to receive the medal. The Institute of Physics was founded in 1961. Fifty years later, he's one of our most successful scientific institutions, leading in the field of exact science. The Institute's international success has led to Serbia's return among CERN member states, an institution that is a character of world scientific co-operation. At the moment, the Institute of Physics has high quality researchers and a globally competent scientific infrastructure, a vision and a strategic plan that promises to successfully integrate into the European Research Area and a post-scient scientific and technological leader in the 21st century region. On the occasion of 50 years of successful scientific and research work for the exceptional merits of Belgrade's Institute of Physics has been decorated by the third-degree Sretenje Order. I ask the Director of the Institute of Dr. Alexander Belic to receive the medal. This year, it ends 40 years after Mr. Radoslav Zelenovic professionally engaged in the film. Of that, 20 years is the place of director of the Yugoslav Cinematheque, in a world of value, national institutions with one of the most significant film archives on the planet. As editor of numerous film programs and events, he managed to get to know the audience with less famous but very important world cinemas by popularizing film art. Radoslav Zelenovic was decorated by the third-degree Sretenjski Order for special merits in the field of film art. I ask Mr. Radoslav Zelenovic to receive the medal. Our famous chess player, Majestic Milunka Lazarevic, the most successful and Yugoslav and Serbian chess player of all time made a major contribution to the popularity of chess and successfully defended his country's colors in prestigious world competitions. Milunka Lazarevic was awarded a third-degree Sretenjski medal for special merits and achieved extraordinary results in chess sport and for her 80th birthday. I'm asking Mrs. Lazarevic to take the medal. The B92 Fund launched the humanitarian action Battle for Babies in autumn 2011, with the desire to raise money successfully to buy 100 incubators necessary to the Institute for Neonatology and other health institutions in Serbia, in which most incubators were over 30 years old. The Fund's main goal was to motivate individuals and companies, i.e. to encourage the entire community to engage more in creating better conditions to reduce infant mortality and the health hazard of premature children. Those kids, the incubator was really necessary. After a year, more than 2m euros were collected in the Battle for Babies action. More than a million citizens and 700 companies participated. The result is 207 incubators that are now deployed to 60 health centres and 50 cities across Serbia. For the implementation of the Social-Humanity Action Battle for Babies, which contributes to the general good citizens of Serbia, the chairman of the Board of Directors of the B92 Fund, Veran Matic, was decorated by the third-degree Srebrenica Order. Drama artist Marija Crnobori lasts in the memory of the audience with her maesteral theatre roles and interpretation of characters from ancient tragedies, classical dramas and domestic texts. With its luxuriant talent and duration of the Serbian acting champion, Mrs. Crnobori combines eras and different theatre directions that have been a common denominator for tens of years. Drama artist Marija Crnobori was awarded a third-degree Sretenjska Order for special merits in the field of theatre art. By the time she's 94, she'll be waiting for us to deliver this high honor tomorrow at her home. Over the last 180 years, the National Library of Serbia and many generations of its experts have been dedicated to the persistent and sacrificed collection, processing and presentation of the multimillion-dollar corps of artefacts of our culture, science, education and art, which today represents the largest collection of cultural treasures in this part of Europe. Rich and diverse collections, funds, collections of the National Library of Serbia are the guardian of national history and culture in the period from the XXdo HXI century. On the occasion of 180 years of existence and successful work in collecting and preserving a literary fund of historical and cultural importance for the Republic of Serbia, the National Library of the Republic of Serbia was decorated by the Sretenjska Order of the second degree. Please V.D. The director of Mr. Dejan Ristic's National Library to receive the medal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-15-0.u12443	Let me, on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all of us, congratulate the winners of high recognition. I call on Mr. Dejan Ristic, acting director of the National Library of Serbia to address us on behalf of the rewarded.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-15-0.u12444	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, your sanctity, dignitaries of traditional churches and religious communities, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, once there will be no us, we are neither bound by the dead nor by the dead, wrote our prominent poet Stevan Raichkovic. I am honored to address this high house on the day of the national holiday, when Serbia marks the beginning of the First Uprising and the declaration of the Happy Constitution. The National Day of Meeting, Serbia's Statehood Day, contains a double symbolism. It is a day of memory and celebration of the struggle for freedom, but at the same time it is a day when we proudly witness our unmistakable two centuries-old constitutional tradition. Meeting is the day when everyone has to remember what they can do for their country, instead of asking what it could do for him. The meeting is therefore the day when we measure what the individuals of the institution have done, as a rule, under circumstances that in their business and prerogatives were not favored. The team's results are more significant and visible before. Today, at the Meeting, I stand before you on behalf of all the winners of the high honours and medals of the Republic of Serbia, but as acting director of the National Library, at the same time, and in the name of the institution that this first great recognition was awarded by her country. With the Sretenjska Order, which today will crown the work of the largest library institution in this part of Europe, experts of the National Library of Serbia will have more motive to work harder to collect, preserve, process and present cultural heritage, but at the same time everyone at that call, which never ends, will have more rights to demand that the state of Serbia stand behind their efforts. For let us not forget, the nations and their nations that endure, endure in their memory. Mr. President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, my words are inspired by the need to refer in this high house to the phenomenon of patriotism, which is manifested by the victim and the one who manifests himself in creation. The truth is the words of a poet who says life is deadly, but resists. To give life for your country is rightfully considered to be the greatest sacrifice and unselfish act of patriotism, especially when life is laid down in defense of the weak and threatened. It's slavery and creativity, making a personal contribution to a better community and country. Desanka Maksimovic, whose 20th anniversary of death we mark, was determined with a word, instead of a weapon in her hands, she cried out: "The country, I am here! ". Indeed there were: Dositej, Vuk, Duke Mihailo, Stojan Novaković, Paja Jovanovic, Nikola Tesla, Bora Stanković, Nadežda Petrovic, Mihajlo Pupin, Oscar Davico, Milos Crnjanski, Isidora Sekulić, Ivo Andrić, Milutin Milanković, Anica Savic-Rebac, Meša Selimović, Vasko Popa and many others. Love for the homeland was expressed by creation and donation. In their works and achievements, they drew Serbia on the map of Europe and the world for all time. Deeply aware that their invitation to a gift, skill and knowledge that they had placed in the service of the common good, were true winners in a battle without weapons, in a battle in the fields of culture, education, science and art. History teaches us that nations and countries without culture and education have no future. Perhaps someone will say that the time of great ideals has forever passed and that we live in a time when virtually threatens to overcome reality, when there are new, yet unknown temptations ahead of us. However, individuals and institutions, now decorated by their country, testify to the timeliness and complete foundation of ideals and value systems, which neither time nor trouble could disrupt. Their results, individually and collectively, make them extraordinary and worthy of all respect, and they all oblige us to give them credit, encourage them to continue to act on the welfare of their country. With our new thoughts, it is my honor to express my gratitude on behalf of the decorated for the high recognition, which is at the same time the privilege of the chosen, but also the special responsibility that has been entrusted to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-15-0.u12445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished guests, the song "Vojsta Serbie", in the performance of the newly decorated First Belgrade Song Society, I hereby conclude the first annual session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013 and invite you to the Hall of the National Assembly, where we held an exhibition in honor of the State Day of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. (Intonation of the song "Arise Serbie". )
