ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 142 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 134 MPs present in the hall, i.e. there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Mladen Grujic and Miodrag Stojkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within the short notice set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely for Monday, and beyond those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda acts set out in the request of 141 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the motionary Aleksandr Vukic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, to be attended by Miroslav Jovanovic, Deputy Defence Minister Svetko Kovac, Director of the VBA, Brigadier General Dragan Vladisavljevic, Director of the VBA and Colonel Ljubomir Nikolic, Head of International Military Co-operation at the Ministry of Defence. In addition to the meeting of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013, called for by 141 Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the holding of the Third Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2013, the following Dn e n i r e : 1. Proposal for a resolution on the respect for human rights of refugees and exiled persons and other citizens who have been damaged in their property and other rights in the countries established in the area of the former Yugoslavia, which was submitted by MP Miodrag Lint; 2. Proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2013, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documents in order to implement the construction of the natural gas transport system 'South Stream', which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on International Railway Transport (COTIF), submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention number 181 on private employment agencies submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a Law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention No 150 on the Administration of Work, submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 10. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Culture, which was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly; 11. Proposal for a decision setting out the composition of the Commission for the monitoring of the implementation of the National Action Plan for the application of Resolution 1325 of the United Nations Security Council – Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia (2010-2015), submitted by the National MP Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic; 12. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic League of the Duchy of Vojvodina. Since a proposal has been tabled for the merger of the debate, before we move to a decision on the proposal, we need to determine whether there is a quorum to decide on. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that 129 MPs are present in the hall and therefore the conditions for decision are met. National MP Stefan Miladanovic, based on Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose to carry out: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other Defence Forces in Multi-national Operations in 2013, Proposal for a Decision on the Participation of Members of the Serbian Army in Multi-national Operations in 2013 and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency; 2nd Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No. 181 on Private Employment Agencyes and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No. 150 on the Administration of Work; 3rd Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision on the Interruption of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of the National Council for Culture, Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of the Members of the Security of the European Parliament and of the Republic of the European Parliament of 13th. Does MP Stefan Miladanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, no one, with abstentions, voted 44 of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Given that you have been given the notice of MP Miodrag Linta to withdraw from the procedure a motion for a resolution on respect for the human rights of refugees and exiled persons and other citizens damaged in their property and other rights in the former Yugoslavia, which was to be considered as the 1st point of the agenda of this session, we are moving to work on a joint principled and unified search on: the proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013, the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2013 and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency (points 2, 3 and 4 of the Agenda). In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the draft agenda acts under points 2, 3 and 4, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11775	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the government, under Article 97, would like the Assembly to declare the proposal to double the time of the debate. The reasons are next. Today, we expected the Assembly to discuss a resolution concerning Serbs expelled from Croatia and other surrounding states, and in a completely inexplicable way the resolution was withdrawn, without any explanation. Since we and you Serbian citizens have been expelled from their hearths and Mr. Linta has submitted a resolution that could absolutely have received our support, of course, with amendments and criticism, since there is nothing in it... (President: Please discuss this when the resolution is on the agenda. You are entitled on the basis of article 97 to propose a lengthy debate, but you cannot talk about the resolution you are now pleading to in the course of that request. Yes, but I'm trying to explain that this has something to do with the time of the debate. That's what I'm trying to explain... (President): But now these dots are not on the agenda. You have to talk about what's on the agenda. Today we're talking about points 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. Yes, but my question is, why was it, and it's not on the agenda now?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11776	It is withdrawn from the procedure on the basis of the proposal's request. The promoter pulled her out of the procedure, and based on that, we can't have her on the agenda today. Otherwise, all MP groups have been informed on Saturday. Of course, I'll put your proposal to the vote. I'm putting the motion to vote to extend the time of the debate. We need to determine the voting quorum. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that 154 MPs are present in the O.R. and there are conditions for voting. I ask the National Assembly to make a statement on Parliament MP Borislav Stefanovic's proposal to double the time of debate on points 2, 3 and 4. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, v– two, abstention – one, 124 of the 168 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since the total time of the debate is five hours, and you have received details about this in the material, I would ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 192(3) and Article 193. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013, the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2013 and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VBA and VOA. Does the president of Proposer Aleksandar Vucic, First Prime Minister and Defence Minister, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11777	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we have for the third time in the last three months a decision on the adoption of the plan for the use of the Republic of Serbia Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. I will try to be as concise as possible and repeat the political reasons that are in the interest of the Serbian state to participate in multinational operations under the auspices of the UN and the EU. I'll give you some numbers. I'm sure it's in the absolute interest of our country, if you will, our armies. I think it even contributes to improving the international legal position of the Republic of Serbia. The army of the Republic of Serbia today, and not only since yesterday, but the Army of the Republic of Serbia today or today is one of those institutions in our country that enjoys the greatest trust of our people, the Republic of Serbia's Army, is also the best ambassador of the Serbian state, because our members, however on which continent they may be, no matter what multinational operation to participate, they contribute to a greater friendship with the largest number of countries in the world. They are the ones who, by doing so, come to new knowledge, come incomparably more dressed than they were, come in technical and technological terms more equipped. I don't think there's a single reason that would lead us to conclude that we should suspend participation in multinational operations. At the same time, most of what we call the international community euphemistically, sees the Army of the Republic of Serbia and its members as professional, responsible and serious people who do their job best. That's why we have an increasing number of demands from different parts of the world. No one, I would say, in no part of the world is only against it, but would want Serbian soldiers, and because of their professionalism, and because of their relationship, respect for other countries, their sovereignty and territorial integrity. I would say that by doing so, Serbia's international legal and political position increases from day to day. The defence ministry, in line with available capacities and material finance, planned to continue its deployment in UN peacekeeping operations in the Congo, Liberia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Lebanon and the Middle East in 2013, the EU's anti-pirat operation in Somalia and the EU mission to train the Somalian security forces in Uganda. The annual plan uses certain capabilities of the Serbian Army that we place at the disposal of the UN under the "stend Bay" arrangement, in the case of needs and conditions of deterioration of situations in peace operations, which include medical teams, military observers and staff officers. What may confuse you in the operations you have received is total engagement, planned engagement in 2013, but it is with rotation. So, for one second, we won't have that number of members who would participate in peace operations, but I'm talking about all those who are in rotation will be up to 475. Since November of the month, when we have a company more in a multinational operation in Lebanon, then we will have the most, at one point, 289 soldiers engaged. That's what our plan is, and that's what we think we've had so far, fortunately, I have to say, without any loss or sacrifice, but that it's also shown high professionalism and that we've managed to show how and how one professional army and one serious country behave. A third, more precisely 32.9% of the funds will be provided on the basis of compensation the UN will pay to the defence ministry on behalf of participation in multinational operations in 2013. I'd like you to look at what we're paying for, that it's basically going to pay and receive soldiers who participate in multinational operations, and the rest, of course, are operations, tools, weapons and all that is technically necessary, along with transport, to participate in a multinational operation and to implement it with significant success. Up until now, we've been going to the National Assembly every time. I would like to say that participation in multinational operations always means strengthening the defence capacities of the Republic of Serbia, the national security of the Republic of Serbia. With our membership in the UN, we have taken over certain obligations and put our armed forces, the id of the jest, at our disposal, only in the conditions in which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia determines it. We think it's very correct, fair and, in accordance with the Constitution, a certain relationship and we've always treated the National Assembly that way, and we'll always do it in the future. As far as I understand, this is a fundamental amendment in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of RS on 1 June 2012. I'm going to tell you openly that this Constitutional Court decision has made no small problems in the functioning of our agencies. I don't want to get into those stories that may be going through in our people about how services are being abused and how sometimes someone would carry out surveillance, law-monitoring measures. It's always been done here and acted in accordance with the law. The Constitutional Court, however, has banned its measures from asking VBA directors for secret electronic surveillance of telecommunications and information systems to collect data. In accordance with the Constitutional Court, even if it represents creating difficulties, and on behalf of the protection of human rights and freedoms, we must act in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, we have proposed a law on amendments and additions to the Law and the essence of the law is that the decision to apply that procedure and measures shall be taken by the Supreme Court in the seat of the Court of Appeal for the area of the Court of Appeal in which the action is being prepared or taken whose detection, monitoring and disabling in the jurisdiction of the VBA is taken. Since the proposed solution, of course, is a measure of incurring human rights and freedoms and does not constitute a measure of the same kind in relation to the measures in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court, as it does not control the content of communications. This respects the principle of incurring human rights and freedoms, and it is in such a higher court instance that it approves them. We believe that the Supreme Court is sufficient to guarantee the legality of the application of that special procedure and measure. It has also been achieved, not quite, but in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, it is the only harmony and balance between the interest of operationality and the efficiency of the application of that special procedure and the measures to protect human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to adopt these amendments to the VBA and VOA Act, some of the provisions of the laws governing the confidentiality of data and electronic communications, as well as the need to specify the legal basis for the adoption of certain sublegal acts implementing the laws on VBA and VOA, have also been demonstrated. We think that this way, by adopting this law, we will warn certain threats to national security of the RS, the Ministry of Defence and the RS military. The prescribed mechanisms and procedures are in line with the highest mechanisms of judicial protection of human rights and freedoms and much more than it was in the previous law. I must say that you should know that as MPs, that certainly operationality is not and will not be at the same level as it was before, regardless of what our attempt is to through the Constitutional Court's decision to protect human rights and freedoms give the full guarantee of the implementation of human rights and freedoms, we provide such a kind of operationality of the relevant agencies that will guarantee the preservation of security and the pre-warning of threats to our national security. I would once again like to thank all those who have sent objections and pointed to certain objections, especially for greater participation and more significant participation of the Assembly committee. We accept these remarks and are ready to accept all other well-intentioned remarks, especially from people who are expert in the field and who could help on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11778	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Please sign in if you want a word. People's MPs, Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11779	Dear President, honourable Ministers Vukic, members of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will first and foremost address the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on VoA and VBA, while my colleague Mirko Chikiriz will talk about the first two points of this joint search. The submission of this draft law on amendments to the Law on VoA and VBA is perfectly natural to ask the question of the work of those agencies. It is certain that both deserve that a number of criticisms but also unequivocally deserve to be commended for all those tasks which, thanks to their zealous performance, have given political authorities the information they needed and which have turned out to be crucial for making political decisions above all. Before I speak in more detail, I have to turn things around for a moment and ask – did this parliament ever use security and intelligence issues for political purposes? Of course it is, and it's done by every authority, and it's done by every opposition. Has this parliament ever talked about the subject, and that it has completely ignored the political interests of the parties from which MPs speak? Unfortunately, it hasn't yet. The question of democratic control of secret or semi-secret services can only be asked by one who has sufficient credibility to ask such a single question. If the parliament's security issue, as well as the intelligence service issue continues to be an opportunity to collect some cheap political points, then I fear that this parliament itself will never have the credibility to take any steps towards both democratic and civilian control of the work of those services. In my further presentation, I will not pay too much attention to this, although I believe that democratic and civilian control of these agencies and services is of paramount importance. I will wait for the opportunity to criticise the work of this parliament once the criticism is in place. I will personally try to set an example. In my further presentation, I will point out everything DHSS, as well as my colleagues from the SPO approve of this bill. I'm going to point out some of the problems that I think one part of this law can overcome by accepting certain amendments, and on the other hand, I think there are those problems that I'm not enough to solve. In terms of the control of the work of both security and intelligence services, I believe it is extremely good that the legislator in Article 5, in an extremely explicit way, has prescribed that all the data collected in the application of special procedures and special measures cannot be used as evidence in criminal proceedings. In a way, the ministry itself is demoted to abuse what they collect on the basis of their operational work. However, given the difficulty in proving certain crimes and especially those crimes that have an element of secret, subtle in themselves, and especially when there is no suspicious and logistics of a foreign element in the commission of criminal activity, I believe that it is necessary to allow use in criminal proceedings and certain data that the VBA in its operational work takes place. Also, the data I believe may and should be used as evidence in the criminal proceedings is all the data collected on the basis of the measures taken by the VBA by decision or by the court's permission... , i.e. if, say, the Supreme Court or the High Court of Cassation in such a way as is provided for by the provisions, both the 13a and the 14th laws, allow the application of these special proceedings, then there is no reason for these data to be obtained from the VBA, for which the judge himself is, for example, The higher court of Cassation gave consent to obtaining, tomorrow and not being used in court. Moreover, the only difference in the way in which these data are collected in relation to the rules laid down in the Criminal Procedure Act is seen in the fact that those data are collected in the Criminal Procedure Act and based on the request of the Public Prosecutor. This means that if the collection process, as well as the control method itself, is identical in the CAP, as well as in this law, then we can help our prosecutors in this sense to make it easier for them to prove those crimes that I already said were extremely difficult to prove, and above all, when I talk about these extremely hard-to-prove crimes, I mean the preparation of subversive and terrorist actions and other, conditionally speaking, secret crimes. I've been dealing with this particular issue since I've submitted certain amendments, which you'll be able to read. I want to take this opportunity to draw attention to extremely important problems that I consider to be of national interest, which are directly related to security and intelligence services. In this plan, Serbia has a dramatic problem that is seen in the fact that our country, and that is what domestic security experts most often point to, is that Serbia does not have a central intelligence service. Serbia does not have a central intelligence agency. We have two military agencies and one, conditionally speaking, civilian agency. It's VBA, voa and bia. As we all know, the BIA deals with security aimed at protecting all those affairs that fall within the defence ministry's jurisdiction and the Serbian Army. So she deals with internal security matters. The VOA, on the other hand, deals with external intelligence, primarily by collecting all those data relating to abroad, which concerns our countries, therefore, the Republic of Serbia. The aim of these intelligence services and all these intelligence agencies is to eliminate, or predict, elements of risk and threat. Intelligence services must have data that, for example, concern both species and the number of weapons, if, for example, they are supplying Kosovo's armed forces. They must also have information or information on a closed contract between the UK and India on the financing of missile systems. They must have data on the financial construction of the South Stream pipeline, on the goals of the German electricity industry in the Balkans, etc. Intelligence services should also provide personal information on all those officials and non-officials of foreign states and their specific interests, and in the interest of the country they represent. This information must be analysed, systematised, converted into information that will be crucial to Serbia's political leadership in making all strategic decisions. It is quite clear that the only service that is equipped enough to collect that data, perhaps not to such extent, is all for the reasons of poverty in which our country is located, and it is the VOA. However, while VOA, while operatives and analysts, with all due respect to those working there, are extremely committed to this work, is not an agency that can objectively respond to all those requirements that the state has when collecting and processing information. This is because it is an agency dealing with issues, i.e. data of importance for the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. I think Serbia needs a national intelligence agency that at one central level, using both its operational work and the operational work of all other agencies and services, to collect, both security, military, economic and foreign policy and all other data, and to deliver them in the form of a summary of information to the state summit, so that they make their decisions right. For example, there will be no situation that has occurred, and they have been extremely common. For example, a case where Russia stops delivering gas to Ukraine and gas transit across Ukraine, so that Serbia knows nothing about it, that there is no advance information on such a thing and that it is therefore unprepared in winter. It is clear that the evolution of this topic is not possible to execute in this place and that this time is too little for such a subject. On the other hand, I believe that the funding of such a national agency would be not such a small item in the budget, but it is also clear that good organisation and motivation of personnel can make Serbia sufficiently covered in its intelligence work. I ask the MPs, if I may, because I can't hear myself. What I'm talking about right now, and as far as national intelligence agencies are concerned, is not a criticism of the authorities, but rather an appeal to the political leaders to unite, so that in the future we can get one such agency, but not in the interest of any party, not the ruling party, not in the interest of any government, but in the interest of the country in which we live, because I'm afraid that the country's movements, like ours and what all of its strategic decisions should fit into the big world movements, that we are not aware enough of them and that we don't have enough information about them. In the context of this, I will draw attention to the fact that our military intelligence service has long ago not had enough financial resources and that, in many key places in the world, the work that would be done, if exclusively carried out under the 1961 Vienna Convention, is often done by only one man who is able and able instead of a team of people in Serbia. Instead of the political leaders dealing with this issue, with the desire to achieve the highest level of efficiency and the higher the level of one intelligence productivity, we are increasingly witnessing that our political leaders are increasingly politicising the issue of security and intelligence services. It is not disputed that politicians can politicise everything, but it is disputed in which direction they will do so. It is disputed, say, that a small number of people in this country are aware of the fact that security and intelligence services are able to manipulate the country itself, government and parliament. If you ask me, how? I will say – simply, easily, by delivering to the political leaders all the information that is not true and the data that is semi-accurate. This was not immune to any authority and not only in Serbia, but in any Western or eastern country. At the time, the United States had terrible problems with this, and it turned out that security and intelligence services provided the political summit of that information, the wrong data, to provide for themselves, or to act on certain decisions that were not in the interest of their country, were already aimed at self-satisfaction with their structures. Great Britain, which I must mention, and its services are a role model for all security services. I'll remind you that the first intelligence agency there was founded in the 15th century, and that country had this kind of problem in recent history. It is of paramount importance that security, as well as intelligence services, be controlled by civil authorities, such as parliament. You will agree, security and intelligence services may have an interest in deliberately and incorrectly informing the minister, but they have no interest, no capacity to deliberately misinformed, incorrectly inform the opposition. If in this sense Serbia were Great Britain, then the opposition would control the services, not with the intention of preventing the political elite from implementing and implementing its policy, but with the intention of preventing the self-will of the service from misusing its powers by incorrectly delivering or semi-declaring state authorities and by not being those services that will define what national interest is, but simply helping the state summit to realise national interests and defining them on the basis of those data that are absolutely accurate. The opposition with its unique role, which, unfortunately, we do not have in this House to control this process, not in our own, but in the general interest. In this regard, I will publicly praise the intensities of the legislator as a positive shift made by the amendment of Article 39(2) of the current Code, because the so far solution, under which the Act on the Internal Regulation and Systematization of the VoA and the VBA was a state secret by automation, was then meant to prevent civil, or parliamentary control of those services. If the facts are – what functions exist in the services, which function is responsible for what, and by automation is a state secret, then it is clear that no one can control it. I think that by removing this automation, it seems to be a good step towards one complete demystification of all these services and giving parliament a chance to fulfill its mission in terms of civilian control, which is what should be the function of this parliament. I also think that it is good that the proposal for this law in the VBA is deleted by the security risk assessment operations because the VBA is not here to assess the national security risks, but rather it is there to provide clear and analytically processed data, and on the basis of which the risk assessment will be carried out by the Ministry of Defence and other structures in the military, and not by the ministry a subordinate agency. The ministry should carry out that assessment based on all available data, as well as plans, not only on those supplied by the VBA. The solution so far, unfortunately, made it possible for the arbitration of the internal structures of the VBA and allowed the VBA itself to decide priorities, based on its own assessment which could be targeted, which could have been both malicious and which did not have to be realistic. That is why I view all these amendments to the Law in Article 6 as the fittings of the Agency to all those tasks which it truly and in principle specialises and should work, which is that it primarily provides security to military and all other structures of importance for security and without unnecessary divorce and without any legal authority to assess security risks. When it comes to Article 8a, which is formulated by the Bill's proposal, despite the particular arguments put forward, I think it is too much to discuss on the subject because it is natural for security agencies to collect data from those with whom they have established co-operation. I'll talk louder and louder because I can't hear myself. President, I've asked you once. (President: But, truth be told, there is no excessive noise in the O.R. You know what the atmosphere is like in parliament. There's really no excessive noise in the O.R. ) What could later be talked about is the way the Ministry of Defence will define how co-operation will be defined by its sublegal act, what is actually considered under co-operation, or what is documented and what is actually made of an authentic selection of data collection. Since such matters are a state secret, it is necessary to consider that the Committee for the Control of Security Services of the National Assembly should be able to use such an act as will be applied to this member, to deliver its opinion and to the Ministry of Defence. Given that Serbia's history has shown that the co-workers of intelligence agencies can often be controversial, then I believe that it will be of utmost importance that the defence minister, on the proposal of the VBA director, amends the act on the very workings of the Agency in this part. On the other hand, many have pointed to a dramatic violation of Article 13. The law, under which the Director of VBA could order, operational penetration and electronic surveillance without a court decision. It took three years for the Constitutional Court to finally make a decision that proved unconstitutional. I am pleased here this time by the fact that this bill did not insist at all and did not go in the direction of bypassing the Constitution, no matter what I thought about this Constitution, but finally established one judicial control over the surveillance of communication. When it comes to general security affairs of the VBA, then I have to point to one, I think, a major failure made by this bill. By amendments to Article 6 of Article 1 of the existing law, the work of the VBA consisting in providing security for crypt protection has been abolished. After these changes, the preservation of the encryption of protection is not a job of the VBA, and I think it's a major failure in terms of which I have submitted the amendment. Namely, each service has its own crypto protection and crypto protection system is one system of encryption and decryption of data being transmitted. Security experts agree and are almost consensual in their decision that the information and telecommunications system is not the same as the cryptic protection system. Special Crypto Protection has both security structures and intelligence structures, it is owned by individual ministries, and even agencies have their own crypt protection. I will continue to discuss this in detail, since I have just submitted an amendment to this article of the law. For last, I have to mention what everyone knows, whether they're the government, whether they're the opposition. It is true that the security-intelligence system in Serbia has changed in recent years, but it is also clear that the way they work has changed very little since the SFRY period. (President: Time. I'm done. Many experts point to the dangers of such a system, to turn it into a highly self-satisfactory continent, which data produces and delivers it to the highest state bodies on the basis of its own satisfactory interest. We also need to take concrete steps to change the thinking of our ministry. This is not an easy task, of course, because the structures within these services will always resist change. (President: Please finish, since you've been talking for twenty-half minutes. Here's a sentence. I think it is necessary to refresh the work of these services and to introduce new ways and new systems of work. In doing so, I feel that there should be no fear or fear of any change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11780	National MP Borislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11781	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen Chairman, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, VBA and VOA are a significant segment of the security-intelligence system and the overall national security system. Today, we approach only those members in this law that the Constitutional Court has put out of force. I think we should stick to that. I'm going to say something in my presentation or else what should be corrected in all these laws that are in the field of security at all. However, first of all, I would also like to say that this government has drawn as a priority and it seems to me that it has already entered into the account, that is, the fight against corruption and crime and everything that goes with it. In my opinion, this is a new moment in this society, and I think, therefore, that the entire security system should also be able to achieve such a new proactive function of this society. It's especially important, if we go into such a fight, one that needs to free the society of what's blackest in it today, then it's like when a surgeon approaches surgery. If there are no sterile instruments, it won't be a successful operation. What do I mean? I think it is very important that, in addition to the strongly expressed political will today, to move into this fight with corruption, crime and everything else, it is very important that, first of all, we get better, or clean up the institutions, so that they can do their job with great success, insisting on and particularly Mr. Vukic in his work. First of all, I mean the security intelligence system, the police, the prosecution, the judiciary and the widest information system. That's why I think it's also necessary to access the entire system of laws that follow this area. The VBA and VOA law, I think, deserves to be searched entirely and laid on some other grounds. There are no, nor are specific concepts defined to make things clear, such as operational penetration, such as secret co-operation, you have no decade explained these terms. And also, nowhere is explicit in this law highlighted, I apologize that I am now a little further away from these members who have been searching us, nowhere in this law has it been pointed out and said what acts under the law are required to be passed, and in particular there is no mention of an act that should be worked out and that needs to be arranged methods of working these services and at all professions. Some of them are listed, but not all of them. Then, in this law, not well-formed businesses, or the jurisdiction of military intelligence services, except for one, two positions, everything else overlaps with what is VBA, or overlaps, I know that to some extent, it must overlap with counterintelligence protection, i.e. counterintelligence. The basic law on the basics of security services is more treated with a security system, and less what is called a security service arrangement as part of a significant single security intelligence system. In this law, things that concern the Bureau of Coordination in terms of, in my opinion, which this committee should have a stronger executive function of policies and attitudes, the National Security Council decision, on the one hand, and on the other, that I have an increased operational function, i.e. an enhanced function in operational direction of the Security Service in their work. I think these are the things that deserve to be considered. Whether I'm right to the end or wrong, but there are questions to consider. In the case of a national security strategy, it is crucial and it is not clear whether we have defined ourselves, if I do so well, whether we have defined ourselves as the concept of national security as the EU propagated or as concepts that the defence is the most important function of the state, and in which national security is the most important component. I think that's what it is, it's a strategy, it means a strategic question. The second thing, it is not defined in this strategy, and it seems to me that it is very important, the role of many authorities and institutions that are conditionally outside the security information system, such as authorities and institutions, but are within the system of security and the jobs they perform. These are the authorities of the state administration, above all, the judiciary, private security entities, and especially the media, which are said to perform in the broadest sense a function in the national security system. I'm not gonna work that out. For this law that we are considering, that is, the operation of military security and military intelligence as well as for the entire security intelligence system, there are also two weaknesses that do not make it effective enough. First, which is the Act on the Protection of Secret Information still at the beginning when it comes to application and I don't see why it is more complete and more direct to apply, and the other thing that regulations haven't regulated a whole segment, which is information security. I think the sooner we can access it, the sooner we can regulate it. Therefore, because of what I have said, the PUPS parliamentary group proposes that the Assembly should decide as soon as possible that the Government should form a working group that would review the National Security Strategy and prepare the missing laws and other laws, i.e. the addition of existing laws. Realising the need for urgent and urgent access to the amendments and additions of this law ahead of us, I said at the beginning, in the sense of the Constitutional Court's decision and repealing some of its provisions, the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions, of course with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11782	Thank you. The word has a Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11783	I thank you and Mrs Batic. So, I'd just like to say a few words to answer. By accepting certain shortcomings, but tasks for the future, I would like to point out to you about the crypto protection, if I have heard you well, because I have not heard you very well, Miss Batic, because he has been a marble from all sides. Therefore, the issue of crypto protection is a technical measure both in the external and internal information and in the notification of these measures are used. Therefore, the organisation of these measures does not provide for VBA but is prescribed by other acts. As far as computer networks and information systems are concerned, it is written to you in Article 6 where it is clearly said that information systems, computer networks, connection systems and encryption systems are being carried out. Of course, the VBA is not responsible for organising the crypto protection but only for the segment of the security measure. In Article 24, you have the exact following, I would say the necessary level of measures and activities that are in charge and which must be taken over by the VOA. I think that's pretty specific. As regards the methodology of work, it is under legal acts adopted pursuant to Article 12, and the minister should adopt a regulation, of course, under the obligation of the National Security Council. On the very work of the Bureau that you mentioned, I would have prepared certain legal changes for one of the next sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in part, to agree with you, and precisely in accordance with the Privacy Act that you mentioned. We also provided for certain amendments to the Law on the Military Security and Military Intelligence Agency, which we have brought into line with the existing legal norms, and that was our obligation. So these are mostly changes in technical character but we have to have a unique legal system and that's why we've already done it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11784	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11785	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, it's been three years since we passed the law and remember then we're from the opposition, at least we, but we weren't the only ones who said this solution was unconstitutionally possible. It's good that in the end it's straightened out, it's no question that the directors of military security agencies can, for the sake of the citizens, have no judgment of the court to have insight into phone records and electronic communications without any insight into the content. Often in the public, unfortunately in the media it is identified by listening. It's not about listening, it's just about seeing who's with whom, when, how much talk, who wrote the emails to whom. Now it is settled as the Constitution states, that it is possible with the court's permission. It's just, there's not much talk about this, the Constitutional Court's decision was clear. It's a good thing this is over, on the soul of the predecessors, that they didn't end it in their term of office. The law as a law and it has some vague things left, but now is not the time to open those questions. We're talking about public procurement, we're talking about the relationship between the controllers who's in charge of the service director, etc. I hope that the further flow, let me say conditionally, security of Serbia's integration, will bring these things to the right place. The security agreements we signed with NATO, so that, after all, our ambassador may work there. Security agreements with the European Union will slowly push us towards regulating the security sector in the way it is arranged in democratic, developed countries, in which we want to be in society. It's called Euro-Atlantic integration or European integration, if you prefer. We prefer Euro-Atlantic integration, because we think reform of the security sector is a very important part of the overall reforms in society. It is difficult to reform public administration or public enterprises, and the security sector remains unreformed. We can say that countries that have lived in some kind of totalitarianism and collectiveism for decades, especially countries that have been through wars and destruction, crimes and other things that some other countries have not been through, that the reform of the security sector may be more important than other reforms. As far as LDP is concerned, hence the plan of use, or participation of our soldiers and police officers in peacekeeping missions, or multinational operations, is not controversial. That's what we've been up against since the beginning, and there's no need for me to deal with it anymore. Maybe it's a little unclear if these numbers are calculated, maybe I was wrong in the calculation, so I apologize in advance, that somehow the cops are overpaid or, let's say, more money per cop goes away than for a soldier. Is it not clear to me that I've calculated correctly or why this would be such a difference between how much a taxpayer is costing a cop on missions and a soldier? That's why I don't think it's disputed to participate if we're able, at least as far as we're concerned with LDP, we'll always approve such missions, precisely because it's in some way an incentive for future reforms of this security sector. Mr. Minister, speaking of the mandate of our soldiers and police officers in multinational operations, has reiterated, as did two months ago, that it raises the country's reputation. We agree. Today, he said it strengthens Serbia's legal-political position. We agree, we've always said that, even if it strengthens the defence ability. And that's what we agree on. If all that is the case, then we think we should seriously consider Serbia's military integration. I'm not saying that the moment in the ruling majority and in most opposition is such that we can think about it, because there will always be resistance. After all, the policy of military neutrality was the policy of the previous government, and it was inherited or retained by the current government. Probably at this point, our voice is lonely, but when there are already arguments that the defence minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister, says, such as raising Serbia's reputation, such as strengthening defence capacity, such as improving Serbia's legal-political position, it is clear that this short integration on this plan would do even more. We will be patient, we will make arguments as to why it is good for Serbia still. Among other things, take only data on direct, foreign investment growth in countries that have passed, which have gone through Euro-Atlantic integration, Bulgaria, Romania, the Baltic countries. Between a third and 200% jumped foreign direct investments when the countries joined the NATO alliance, and thus the growth of the social product. As a result, direct foreign investment growth has dramatically jumped both in Latvia and Estonia. In Romania and Bulgaria, this is a drastic example because they entered NATO in 2004, and in the EU only in 2007, and three years of foreign direct investment growth in our eastern neighbours is a direct consequence or effect of NATO membership. Bulgaria has 70% and Romania has almost 200% foreign direct investment growth. In that sense, we think that the participation of our soldiers and, let's say, the climate in which they, who were against the West until yesterday, were against NATO, and now they say they changed their minds, can relax the situation when it comes to NATO. It seems to me that when that responsibility changes its mind, it really needs to be used, to change the opinion and those who, let's say, once in the past have followed that wrong anti-Western anti-naive policy, with all the respect for our bad experience with the NATO alliance, I mean 1999. Hence, I think that the defence minister, Mr. Vukic, has a special role here, could play a special role in breaking some of the delusions that exist in our country among most citizens. Let's say that NATO's action was called "A Merciful Angel" over Serbia in 1999. That's not her name. That's what someone let go of her. That's what happened. It's clear that whoever wants to be informed of what that action was called, it was called, let's say "the Allied Force," etc. What I would especially appeal to the minister when it comes to an objective relationship with our past, and we must face the past and finally, at least when the past is a war crime, we face it. Everyone who was supposed to meet in The Hague, they found each other. When it comes to our past, as far as Kosovo is concerned, we face it. We've started to face each other, we're facing each other, we're facing each other. As far as NATO is concerned, I think the defence minister is concerned, this is my appeal to the defence minister, with the previous failure, that it is time that after 13 years of the NATO pact's military operation, the code of "state secrets" is removed from the number of deaths. I don't think it really speaks well of our country that on every anniversary of NATO bombing on March 23rd, Tanjug releases one piece of information saying that between a thousand and two and a half thousand people have died and that no one knows the exact number, and the exact number exists, it is known, is recorded. Every soldier and every civilian who died during the NATO campaign, there's a record of how many soldiers died, how many officers were killed, how many civilians were killed. After 13 years, I think it'd be time for those data to see the light of day, to see exactly what it is, what and where these victims were made and created. I think that the preservation, or continuation of this data, would only go hand in hand to those who are not in principle lovers of Serbia's European path. It would allow further data manipulation. After all, it shows us in one light that we're not able to count the victims, and we are capable and count the victims, they exist, only someone then put the code "state secret", so we don't know the data. I think the disclosure of these data would reveal, solve some of the concerns that led to the initiative of the former Minister of Information, and the current Defence Minister, a committee that should determine the circumstances under which some journalists lost their lives, I mean Dad Vujasinovic, I mean counterpart Pantic and Slavko Curuvija. Some people who may not have been journalists, but we remember them on the anniversary of NATO bombing, who died in the RTS building, also deserve, or their loved ones and descendants deserve, to understand, to find out why these people were there at the time, because it is impossible only with Milanovic's conviction to justify it and to transfer the blame to him, regardless of what is responsible under the Law had to be removed. To determine if data were revealed on the victims of the military and the police and the places where they were killed, it might shed some new light on 17 victims in RTS. I felt I needed to take advantage of this debate about something that, from our point of view, is not controversial, the amendments to the Law on VBA and VOA and the plan to send our military and police to this year, from our point of view, is not a dispute, but it was a good opportunity, it seems to me to open up some questions to which I expect an answer, but if I don't get it, or I don't get it, not me, I'm saying it for the public, when it's going to have to be put on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11786	Alexander Wolfie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11787	I'll try to provide a few answers. So, during today's day, you will certainly get complete documentation on the number of victims, so, both the dead and wounded members of the Serbian Army during NATO aggression, and I expect you to receive complete information during the day, but I cannot guarantee it at this time about the number of victims, but I don't think there is any particular document in any document that hides the number of dead, wounded, or at all the victims of NATO aggression. Either way, you'll get information by the end of the day, very precise. There are in our file, there is the name and name of every military person who was killed, who was killed in the attack by NATO forces, so in NATO's aggression on our country, and I think it was published years ago, so it's not a secret. As for Serbia's definition of certain military alliances, that Serbia wants to be a member of the EU politically, Serbia is obliged to military neutrality following a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, as it will not go to NATO, will not go to the ODKB or any other military alliance. It is our only job to use the Partnership for Peace and make the best possible relations with all the countries in the world, to ensure peace and security for our citizens, and I think we do it in a successful way. Of course, it's a political issue and you have a right to your opinion that I don't have to agree with, but that I have to respect. As for the level of data exchange in the work of the embassy and military representation in NATO, it has been raised from the Top Secret level, according to a defined agreement, and since the November 2012 report. As far as forming a commission, I just agreed, it was a journalist's initiative and I know, whatever happens and whatever you do, there's gonna be someone who's unhappy or someone who finds a comment. As far as I know, at the first session of that commission, since no one had any objection to seeing what, as well as what knowledge through all the archives, all the documentation can be made about 16 deaths in the RTS rooms, but since there is one, Mr. Sutanovac once spoke about the intercepted talks that exist, there is no, from NATO aircraft. Sometimes it is necessary to avoid the predisposal of the emotions of people who have no connection or don't think alike like me, or people who are in my party will have control over it, be able to see everything and say everything. My mother was a lively journalist at RTS that night, and she happened to survive, so I wondered for once, maybe the problem is that she was alive, so someone in another sense would be more pleased, so I wouldn't move it, because every time I don't say it to you now, but to some others, I feel this kind of need to say that someone deliberately wanted to participate. Somehow you always ignore who really killed those people. That's why we agreed, made available to all documents and this commission, and it's hardly gonna convince me that Mr. Veran Matic is someone who's close to me or in any way about any matter other than these general state issues, we can work closer together, so he can hide something somewhere, or someone plans it, or wants to. We want everything to be completely open, available, as we want all the data from NATO aggression to be available to everyone, because we have nothing to be ashamed of here. I think some others would have something to be ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11788	Replica, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11789	Not to be misunderstood, when I thought it would be a turn after 13 years if we knew how many people died in NATO intervention and NATO bombing, I meant not only the military and the police, but also the civilians. It's simple, it was a state of war back then, and it's impossible not to know the number of civilians. I know the military knows how many of its members died, the police know, but it's important to see the relationship between the unbalanced dead and civilians. When I was talking about the places where the officers or soldiers were killed, I was also thinking about the information from the "Memora" of the former Chinese president who wrote in "Memorari" that he was wrong to allow Milosevic's troops to be in the Chinese embassy, which cost the lives of eight members of the army and three Chinese diplomats. That's what he wrote, so if someone says they made it up, let them say, but the fact that it was then the former Chinese president who then retired, wrote, and in that context I mentioned the building RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11790	Minister Vukic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11791	I'd like another answer that I owe, you asked for the amount of compensation, you're right quite, it's true the cops have more compensation than they have soldiers and it's not since yesterday. Why is that, that's right. When you're looking in the army, so does Minister Sutanovac's recent minister, we agreed that the army gets the same 10,000 that the police get, some of the deal we got, and we managed to secure in one month, and that might be twice a year, but not in 12 months, because that's the case in Serbia. Whether we will succeed in the future to change, I hope that, and I hope that in the next budget, we will foresee different rules, because to be quite honest, it is not easy for me to explain to the members of the Serbian Army, but in such a situation and the budget is such that even this little we manage to fight is something that these people are gratefully accepting and receiving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11792	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11793	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the New Serbia parliamentary group supports the participation of the Serbian Army in peace operations. We believe that this is one of the objectives of the Serbian Army, to take part in the preservation of peace and security in all parts of the world. We also believe it is very important that the Serbian Army strengthens its capacities in this way, and the fact is that in all peacekeeping operations, members of the Serbian Army have shown a high degree of training and preparedness and that this greatly raises the reputation of Serbia in the world, and that Serbia's own troops have earned a lot of recognition and respect for their colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the Law under which VBA and VOA will not be able to collect data on phone conversations of citizens and the way and place of their communication without a court order. Amendments and additions to this law came as a result of a decision by the Constitutional Court which ordered that the contested provisions of this law cease to apply from 1 June 2012. The result of these decisions is that we have already been in one legal vacuum for several months, which must be eliminated by amendments and additions to this law, and the preventive work of VBA and VOA is largely difficult, i.e. slowed down. New Serbia's parliamentary group believes the legislation proposes solutions to a finely balanced legal framework so as not to violate basic human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, we believe that it respects the fact that at today's delicate moment, burdened with various security challenges, it is necessary for the VBA to carry out maximum, rapid and effective preventive activities in order to fulfil the tasks set out in its law of jurisdiction. In this respect, I would apostrophe Article 5 and Article 7 of this Act, as Article 5 provides that the data collected by the application of specific procedures and measures for preventive purposes cannot be used as evidence in criminal proceedings. I also find it very important to consider Article 7 which clearly states that special procedures and measures can only be taken on the basis of the orders of the Director of the VBA or the official of the VBA. In the opinion of the New Serbia parliamentary group, it is very important to personalise the responsibility of the VBA itself in this way. What constitutes the essence of these amendments is Article 8 which defines the procedure for the approval of classified electronic surveillance in order to collect data without any insight into their content. The new solution, which is in line with the highest standards and comparative experiences of countries with a democratic tradition, provides that a concrete measure, i.e. a procedure, is to be taken solely on the basis of a reasoned decision by the competent senior court. In this way, I believe that the urgent decision-making procedure is very clearly defined in this way by the Director of the VBA, or by the Director-in-Office, to the competent court, which shall, without delay and no later than eight hours, take the decision to take the requested measure, but thus very precisely define the object of the measure, the reason for the action, as well as the place and the duration of the measure. I believe that every country faces security risks and challenges and that it is essentially a problem for each country to find the right measure between secrecy and public. The proposed amendments and additions to this law allow transparency, civilian control, and thus are adjudicated and reduced to a minimum by both the trustee and the Ombudsman. In the same direction, further detail is being made of the existing legal solution, which is proposed to Article 9 where it is envisaged that the secret recording and documenting of the talks in the open and closed space using technical means, then the covert supervision of the contents of letters and other means of communication, including secret electronic surveillance, as well as the covert surveillance and recording of internal facilities, closed spaces and objects, shall be taken solely on the basis of the written and reasoned decision of the Supreme Cassation Court. I believe that it is good in this way that the potential responsibility is personalised and that procedures are taken according to the Supreme Cassation Court, which can only be referred to by the Director of the VBA. I do not consider it irrelevant to detail that an existing member of the law has been eliminated from a provision which requires the judge to consider the reasons for the possible refusal of the proposed measure without delay to notify the VBA. As a new solution in Article 11, it merits the attention of the obligations on the part of the VBA, i.e. the authorised person of the VBA, to provide the competent judge with a notification of the end of the measure after the completion of the measure. All in all, the proposed changes go towards eliminating the existing legal vacuum from 1 June of last year, but not in any way, but in a quality and one balanced way, while at the same time strengthening the protection of the interests of national security and prescribing maximum mechanisms and procedures by introducing the highest standards of judicial protection of human rights in this area. I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11794	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11795	Dear President of the Assembly, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS welcomes the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on VBA and VOA, as they significantly introduce control and supervision, primarily in court, in the application of special procedures and measures limiting the right to the privacy of citizens guaranteed by international law and the Constitution of Serbia. The regulation of this matter by law and mandatory judicial supervision of its application are an international standard in democratic civilian control and security oversight and are in line with the needs of the democratic governance of the security sector. So amendments and additions to the law represent a step forward. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which declared several of the provisions of this law which are contrary to Article 41(2). The Constitution of Serbia. This decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia says the basic law on VBA and the VoA, which was made in 2009, was against the constitution. The law proposed then by the Ministry of Defence, and it was adopted by the majority of votes of the then ruling coalition in the National Assembly. The scope of the work and surveillance of the security service is a matter of top importance for a country and it is bad for the law on such an important area to be adopted and then brought down by the Constitutional Court. In this context, I believe that a broad public debate on the adoption of a new law should be held, which will refer to the regulation of the situation in this area. I think there's a point in this, and I'm going to dedicate most of my exposure to this new law. Mr. Minister, you reacted quickly to the Constitutional Court's decision. You've come up with a proposal to supplement and amend the law, but I think it takes a year to a year and a half to be the initiator of the adoption of a new law, which would arrange a set of security laws, not only of the military but also of the civilian ones, in order to achieve the world's greatest standards. One of the things in the new law that needs special attention is parliamentary security control. That is, the work of the Security Services Control Committee. The board must work dynamically, because that's what intelligence services do, and the only possibility for them to control is also dynamic work. I would also suggest that in the future we consider further strengthening the role of the National Assembly in the control and control of VBA and VOA by including the National Assembly and the Security Service Control Committee in the process of making a new law, which in a comprehensive way would regulate the area of work and security control. For the first time in this conference, we have a Security Services Control Committee. The board has shown great activity in this short time. He's established excellent relations with the agencies, and I think now this potential must be used in the adoption of a new law. The National Assembly is primarily a creator, and only then is the controller of the security sector and on us MPs is therefore an obligation to streamline the system of national security in line with the fundamental principles of democratic order. As an example, I've studied several committees for the control of service in the world, and I'm going to take the Security Control Committee in the U.S. Senate. This board has 16 members and meetings whether they believe or not, twice a week. He controls 16 U.S. security services. Sixteen men and sixteen security services. They meet twice a week, but they have a huge 45-story administrative apparatus. Practically one senator gets three pillars. The main role and the main job that allows senators to have the opportunity to meet twice a week, and to influence their work, to listen, to have conversations with security authorities, to control their work, but huge administrative support is needed. This may include one of the proposals for a future law. Also, security dynamics in the 21st century have changed completely, especially in the last 20 years. The introduction of Internet, new IT technologies, the most modern air-tight listening apparatus on earth, etc. calls for the need for very high training and coherence of our security personnel, especially in scientific and technological terms, and for those who need to control the work of the security service. These are, above all, these three independent state institutions, but the National Assembly, or the Security Service Control Committee. By my law, the Committee should have wider powers. One of the issues under the new law that he would propose is financing security services. Today we have the most transparent security funding system. In our budget, the budget of the Republic of Serbia shows the entire budget of each of the three security services. Apart from us, there is only Canada and one or two European states. No one has this transparent way of funding the budget's security services. They all show in the country's budget one single digit. That's the rule. On the one hand, we should insist on transparency, but transparency should be for a committee that controls security and the DRI. That's one key thing. I'll tell you, a serious financial expert in any intelligence agency in another country by analyzing the budget of the VBA, VOA and BIA, can see the number of people involved, how much they invest annually when they analyze several previous budgets, in technology and technical equipment. He can see anything that shouldn't be available. Today we have a system that is too transparent for any citizen or any stranger or any intelligence service, but not transparent enough for the Security Control Committee. That's what's supposed to get into the new law. To use experiences, not to be the most transparent in the world, but to use experiences that others have. To show the budget of intelligence services by one digit, and to make it completely transparent, even more than today for those who control his work. I think it is also necessary to think about new scientific and technological achievements, especially in the area of telecommunications, about buying the most modern equipment. It's so fast progress in the IT industry that it's necessary if we want strong security services. The people who work there should have the most modern technology. Another thing I'm going to propose later on about the new law is that it is mandatory to strengthen the sector that deals with economic and energy security. Recently at the NATO Pact Summit, Hillary Clinton said that NATO's energy security pact is the most important challenge in the next 20 years. We already have these sectors somewhere in the service, but I think these sectors should be one of the operating carriers in these services. I'll mention once again, energy and economic security. Mr. Minister, it's up to you to think. There are different experiences in the world and I am sure that it can be used, that one measure for more effective implementation and better control of the legality of the surveillance measures could be the unification of existing parallel and multiplier technical capabilities of different agencies and police in one national agency. As a provider, it would provide technical services necessary to intercept communications and other signals to all authorised users. This might make sense, given our country's economic potential, because we don't have enough resources. Perhaps if we centralized the funds, we could use the experiences of those countries that have united technical capabilities of different agencies. In this way, procedures for electronic communications providers could be evened out. It could ensure indelible recording of access to telecommunications in all the data needed to be followed up on the legality and verification of all approaches. I would like to highlight the importance of the changes proposed today, not just because they are the consequences of the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision. This showed the Ministry of Defence respect for the court's decisions, which was not the case before. I believe that in the process of preparing new solutions, the Ministry will include the active Committee on Security Services Control, and above all the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the opening of a broader debate, especially with experts in these areas, could have an exceptional significance for the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Minister, the DSS welcomes these amendments to the laws that are proposed. That's much better than before. However, as they only change the existing law, against which we have voted as a party, given that there are certain measures and solutions in the existing law which are not covered by this proposal, as well as some solutions in the context of the proposed amendments and additions to the laws, which can be better arranged, the DSS will decide whether to vote for the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws to be made during the debate. We are aware that the proposed changes are positive and we believe that Serbia needs new laws in this area, not only when it comes to military security services, but also civil. That's why we're giving you full support to propose a set of these laws. In this you will have the support of the DSS, because it is not a party issue, it is primarily a state issue and a national issue. Everyone knows how the DSS is placed every time it comes to the state's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11796	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11797	A few things. I thank Mr. Popovic. He's also a member of the board. First of all, I would like to respond to Mr. Ostojic with precise data on the murdered members of the Republic of Serbia's military during NATO aggression. I'm sorry I didn't know all by heart, but I'm going to read you that data now. Namely, NATO forces killed 631 members of the Serbian Army, missing 28, a total of 659, out of which 72 officers, 41 officers, 18 soldiers under contract, soldiers serving 191, reserve 245, volunteers 60 and civilian personnel in the military three. I don't think you can get a more precise insight into what the victims were at the time of NATO aggression than this. Hopefully we'll be able to provide you with full information about all the other victims by the end of the work. As for the many questions Mr Popovic has been talking about here, and Mrs Batic, I would like to tell you that it is true, we will try to make a united law on all security services by the end of this year. We have the 2002 BIA Act, we have the 2009 VOA and VBA Act, and the 2007 Security Service Act is not good enough and is not good enough for the functioning of the security services themselves. As for the role of the Parliamentary Committee on Security Control and Parliament at all, I must, thanks to both you and all the other MPs, say that there seems to be greater respect in Parliament for the government's MPs and more respect for MPs towards the government. I think we have succeeded in the past few months to change the public's attitude towards the MPs, which is necessary. I used to be an opposition MP, and even when I wasn't an MP, as a politician, I criticized it, because somehow it was always the easiest way to criticize the MPs in public, because then the one who does it through the media doesn't attack directly the government, not directly the opposition, but with that policy -- they're all the same. We, when we show greater respect for Parliament, for the MPs, are thus building this institution. You mentioned American congressmen. It is enough to go to Germany, to see how literally the prime minister of Germany is considering what parliamentarians from his party will say. It's not easy how you're going to go before Shohenhof and Falenski and whether they understand what the executive authority has proposed or not. It won't be easy in Serbia, but I would really like it to be in the next five, six, so if it were in 10 years, we would have achieved great results. You're right about the structure of the budget and the display and the transparency. It bothers many and within our agencies, but on the one hand we are exposed to pressure to show all costs and then instead of showing only the budget, we show the complete structure of the budget. You are absolutely right that all military envoys of foreign countries know almost everything about our capacities. We do it for the local public. At the same time, you're right to give extra information to those who don't need to give extra information. Whether or not we can agree in the next period that the MPs and the local public on the one hand are satisfied with the transparency in spending money, and on the other hand, that they do not have to know exactly how many female colonels we have, how many lieutenants, how many supporters, how many tanks we have, how crazy, how many other tools and weapons we have, and what they know today, they know in a piece, and not because someone was giving away some kind of state secret, but because of our regulations and even our relationship with these problems. As for uniting the technical and technological capabilities of different agencies into one national agency, I think personally, but this is a political issue, which I would like to discuss with all of you in the coming period, I would like to discuss before that and with the President of the Republic, with all the representatives of Parliament, with everyone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It may be possible to do something similar to what the Italians and Germans did through the ICBM in the coming period, but we need not a little time because of habits and because of something, I would say, we always had these segmented interests and we often had competition between different services and even hiding data from each other. You won't believe that they were doing each other, as they say, incorrectly speaking, but that's what they say, so everyone's been looking for a mistake. Today I think our agencies are working closer and better than ever. In doing so, are you always satisfied? I think he can always do better. Also, I would like to say that since this is not a topic today, BIA has reduced the application of technical surveillance and monitoring measures by 60% in just the first six months of its operation compared to what was in the previous six months, and has not been reduced to the focus of national security, the fight against organised crime or the monitoring of the most powerful corruption activities. What's very important is what you mentioned, VOA, as you know, is very detailed and very thorough about energy and economic security issues and certain issues, and I talked to your president about it when he was prime minister, some of these issues are crucial and very painful for our country, especially in some parts of our Republic's territory, where we failed to preserve and defend what had to be preserved and defended, for the simple reason that with a little more money, with a little more bribery of certain people and in different services and politicians, some have managed to endanger our country's economic security and stability, and this is one process that has been going on for a long time, and this is a process that we will have to stop together. I'm afraid it won't be easy at all, but if we don't, it seems to me that the most important part of the national security system is that we won't be able to secure or we won't be able to guarantee that we are carrying out all the tasks and everything that is with the Constitution and the laws that we have prescribed. In any case, strengthening the sector is necessary, but much more is needed than strengthening the sector. It takes what we rarely call, I apologize, follu app, or what it is that we do behind it, what the state is doing behind it. Some of the data and reports you have seen certain services for the territory of the AP Vojvodina and the operation of certain countries in the area of the AP Vojvodina, particularly regarding our country's economic security. Then you'd be absolutely clear what this is about. We didn't have enough power to deal with all of this, we solve all these problems, and it won't be easy in the future either, because when you have problems every day that come up above your nose so you fight just to get under your nose, you've never come into a situation that you can breathe on your nose and on your mouth. I hope next year we'll have more opportunities to deal with these and such problems, because like this, I'm afraid, we'll just be able to realize that you were absolutely right by pointing that out, and, if you will, you've partially criticised it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11798	MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11799	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would first of all like to express a commendation for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Serbia, which for the first time in years, I do not think it has been pointed out here, is delivering a plan for the use of the Serbian Army and the armed forces at the beginning of the year. At the end of last year we adopted a plan of use for the previous year, which was unnecessary and such a single move and attitude of the government, and the approach deserves every praise and we hope that in the next period it will join this task in the same way. The defence ministry has drawn up a plan of use annually, as well as a proposal for a decision on the participation of military members. We see a slow trend in increasing the participants of peacekeeping missions by the Serbian and MUP, which is for every praise because in such a way one trend continues in the previous period, and since the previous government was launched, which is to spread a beautiful picture of Serbia, to slowly sharpen a cloudy picture of the Serb soldier and the Serb people, the one acquired in the 1990s, not our fault, but thus implicated in the world. A good soldier, a professional is an excellent ambassador, as well as a good athlete, which shows the results of our peacekeeping forces, where we come out with extraordinary commendations from international experts in these areas, as well as from all other institutions. It is also good that the body bags do not return our soldiers, which only shows their experience and professionalism and approach to training, which when it comes to going to these delicate areas gives a good result. Great professionalism and resources in relation to the resources allocated to our soldier when he leaves, as a former soldier I know that these are extremely modest means and small wages compared to their colleagues from other countries, only makes us think that perhaps in some future period we are increasingly taking part in these activities. I'll always be an advocate not to be exactly combat units, but to accompany the sanity units, technical, staff officers, etc. Where our experienced soldiers must go and keep the peace and fight for the better people they've come to. I'd like to mention the special funding of a billion and a hundred million, one third of which is the UN. These are really modest means. A professional soldier on peacekeeping missions may have a slightly higher salary than he would have at his service here, and in any case, the head is much more endangered, people say, in a bag. But our soldiers have always worked to preserve peace, whether it's internal peace or one big problem in the world, which is the hotspots on the edge of Africa and the Middle East. I'd ask the Secretary of Defense to make sure in future plans that the operational units stay here, if possible, and that he goes to the peace missions as much as possible... Of course it's not up to you. It's a deal or a contract that's being signed. We're sending a nice message that our operational units with an ugly experience from the past don't take part in combat actions. In this context, I am surprised by the discussion of some of my fellow MPs who focused on NATO aggression in 1992, forgetting that Serbia was officially threatened by the secession of the former republics and that many JNA soldiers, who no longer exist today, but Serbia has suffered by defending the sovereignty of the SFRY in 1992, trying to preserve the state and that one cut off date in 1992, are all victims of aggression on our people who had to defend themselves. The arrival of our compatriots from Republika Srpska and other areas that have been threatened and who have been expelled, the number of those that you have listed earlier to the ministers, that is probably the exact number of the Ministry of Defence, is much greater than those who have suffered from those who have been opposers of our people, regardless of what we have tried to protect Yugoslavia, to stay together in it, is much greater. The very rights of these people are at stake. At the end of my discussion, I will point out once again as the last time that the need to pass a law on martial law is something that is otherwise the subject of the interest of these soldiers who are leaving, for the time being five hundred, I believe in the next few years and over 1,000 soldiers, in the peace missions, and that this law that was passed in 1998, and today is being applied, should be changed because we are the only country in the region that has not passed such a law. This is expected by all members of both the military and police involved in war operations or in peacekeeping operations. That's what citizens and their families expect. Not a small number of Serbian citizens relying on such a thing. This is what the 500 soldiers deployed in peacekeeping missions expect, as they themselves are involved in these operations. On that behalf, we will support all three proposals. I didn't touch the third proposal from this set of laws on purpose. That's a lot to talk about by my previous colleagues. Probably the next speakers will stick to all this, because listening is interesting, who listened to whom, what was who? It's always an interesting topic. For me as an ex-military, this is an interesting topic, which is that our soldiers go to keep peace in the world and go home to their families, and so we should continue in the coming period and spread a more beautiful picture of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia and of professional soldiers and of our country's officers. In that name, we will support all three proposals and vote for them in the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11800	Minister Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11801	Thank you. I just want to repeat once again what Mr. Ostojić asked, it's about the number of soldiers who were killed or missing, 631 dead face and 28 missing persons. These are data from members of the Serbian Army. That's what we lost in NATO aggression in 1999. I wasn't talking about previous wars. I wasn't talking about other conflicts. I was just talking about what was going on in those 78 days. As far as reputation is concerned, I want to inform you that these people are being commended, the commander of the joint forces in Cyprus brought 12 medals last week for a particularly brave and professional stance for Serb soldiers. Then you can imagine in all the reports our soldiers raise the reputation of this country. At the same time, as credible as he is in the world, I want to tell you that we have been invited to participate in a mission in Syria for participation in Mali. We're considering it thoroughly, but we've talked to all the neighbors. For example, in Syria, all sides, we are one of the few countries that all sides accept, believe it or not. So it's very difficult for them to agree on it, but everyone would accept Serbia. Of course, we're considering it from a security angle, so that those things don't happen, Mr. Dujovic, which you were talking about. I want to tell you how high the reputation of the Army of the Republic of Serbia is, how respected is the professionalism of our members, and it is true, although you are right, that our members have the lowest incomes from all the other participants. Our members wear it well and believe that we always have three to five times the number reported than what we need, believe it or not. Because they have slightly higher incomes, they are not significantly higher incomes, but because they want to show their knowledge, they want to learn about what country, Slovakia, Hungary or some other country we are training with. This creates new friendships, not friendships between them, but friendships and co-operation between states. Our medical teams are well-known, and where we have express requests from friendly countries to participate in combat-operation groups, we avoid that and we don't suggest it, but we do it with staff officers, with medical teams, and with what we think is best, most secure, and which would not endanger our relations or our friendships around the world. You're absolutely right. It's of great importance to us. The number is slowly increasing, but this increase in people participating in multinational operations is directly proportional to increasing the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, in order not to be incorrect to others, a few years ago I didn't understand it enough, even though I didn't go public against it. Today I see it and I want other people, who might believe me, to say that it is a huge thing for Serbia and that when you talk to Leo Pannet, Minister Shoygu, anyone from any part of the planet, everyone will tell you in the best light about the Army of the Republic of Serbia, and the way in which we meet our professional obligations. I must say, I am proud of all the members of the army who do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11802	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11803	Mr. Minister, it wasn't on you to say anything. Thank you for the expedition that led you to the data and gave us information on the members of the military who suffered during NATO aggression. Of course, the whole point of my presentation in that part was to draw attention to some people's MPs or colleagues or the public that even before NATO aggression was a struggle for this country, to preserve this integrity, to the sovereignty of our Serbia, but before that on behalf of another country. In that context, Serb victims, heads, and officers fell. We can't forget that. It's my job to always remind you of that. You can't forget that. Tens of thousands of Serbian citizens have left their lives trying to prevent certain things from happening in the ancient past, such as what we have experienced as a people, primarily in World War II, and before that. In that context, I tried to draw attention to the fact that we should always make sure that before 1999... I'm asking all my colleagues not to let anyone try to minimize the victims, because those victims are really big. Those victims were given by the Serbian people and they must be sacred to the Serbian people and this home, as the highest legislative body, not to separate one part by apostrophe of anything else, as an individual. We have wonderful officers who have performed an honorary officer's duty to blow up their warehouses just so they don't fall into enemy hands. We have wonderful soldiers who stayed with the officers, even though they let them go. We must not forget those sacrifices, nor any mobilized young boy of 18 who stood on the defender of his country, for so called his country, and defended his country. That's what we have to take care of, at least here, and not to throw it away, but only to commit ourselves to NATO aggression and to maybe tend to justify, as some people try, as if it wasn't called what it was called. We all listened well to Jamie Shay, just as he called his attack on Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11804	The word is made by MP Zoran Ostojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11805	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. The first time I felt silent, I couldn't do it the second time. Mr. Dujovic wants to appear as a great patriot. I don't mind. I was talking about that it's a shame that 13 years after NATO bombing, which is wrongly called the "merciful angel" action, and most of you think that's what it's called, so I said let's get this straight. It's you who participated in a war in another army, not in Serbian, just to remind you. The Serbian army has existed since 2006 and existed until 1918. I didn't underestimate any victims that fell before. I'm just saying it's a shame not to know 13 years after NATO bombing how many people have been killed in this country and operated on numbers from 2.5 thousand to 5,000 and to see how much the relationship between the unbalanced, killed in military or police uniforms, and civilians is. How come you don't mind knowing how many years ago NATO bombings died? That's all I asked for. I took advantage of the Secretary of Defense's presence. That's what I asked the previous minister for. He said he didn't know that information. So don't deliberately interpret what I've been saying. I didn't talk about who died in the Yugoslav army, what a war it was, that was being guarded by the state, which was being torn apart. I have not entered this distant past at all, but 13 years later I left for 1999. If you're not ashamed that I'm opening the question of NATO victims, then you can talk like that, since you assume that I justify NATO aggression, as you say, which is what it's called. No, I said it was NATO bombing. No one's happy about it. The neighbors are around us... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... NATO or they'll come in. I spoke politically. This sacrifice thing is kind of political, so I asked the minister if we could find out 13 years later. Do not misread me or quote me and lead people to the wrong conclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11806	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11807	I really don't know why my colleague reacts like this. I never mentioned him or his political option. All I know is what my colleague said. What my colleague said was that there is an unfair war, a civil war, call it what you will. There are other victims. To bid in this home, according to this topic, with one part of the ten-year accident of the Serb people, is not correct according to the victims of the previous part. I already said that. Secondly, when I mentioned the name of the NATO aggression mission, which was, I was just quoting Jamie Shea, who at the official press conferences said the action was called "the merciful angel". I didn't make that up. Col. Ostojić here tried to say that's not what the action was called. Maybe he has the right information from the NATO Pact when he stands for them so much. We don't. We just heard what Jamie Shay, Clark and the rest of the crew were saying. That's the point. That's all I said. So, the victims exist, they should be valued, the graves to worship, not to separate them in 1991, 1999, and so forth. I hope there won't be any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11808	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11809	I didn't say that the previous victims existed, but there's no telling how many people died in every city. Maybe he didn't publish the total data. Every city knows how many people died during the civil war in 1991, 1992, in that army, the common army, which is why it was a civil war. It was the army of you and Anthony Tuss, so you fought each other, but those sacrifices are known. These aren't. That's all I said. It's known how many died in 1990, 1991. There are also documentation centres, etc. You don't know about those 1999s. I don't have any information from NATO. You can, too, if you're always with a computer and a computer, find out what the action was called.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11810	Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11811	Dear President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I might have gone over what Mr. Dujovic did, and you didn't react, and I see a violation of article 106 in that. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but he went one step further. I expect Mr Dujovic's apology, not only for the LDP or our MPs, but for the entire parliament. Mr. Dujovic said at one point that he suspected someone here was trying to justify NATO intervention, and that also meant all the murders and injuries that took place in the action, and a little later he spoke about the civil war. I think it's dangerous, since we made those mistakes in 1999 or 2000, to repeat them both in 2012 and 2013. It is dangerous to say in parliament that someone justifies such an action and no one from the LDP has ever tried to do so. As Mr Dujovic, LDP, I do not know if your political party, among other things, signed the RECOM initiative and a whole series of other initiatives and we are very interested in finding out the names, the fates of all those who died in the Yugoslav wars from 1990 to 1999. I'm just expecting you to apologize to this home, not even the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11812	I do not believe that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, because I really did not understand that Mr Dujovic said in such a way, but I will give Mr Dujovic a chance, he has the right to reply, I hope that he will explain what he wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11813	I'll be very brief. This is gonna be the last time I'm answering, so we can get on with this job. Yes, I signed the RECOM initiative, not just her, and long before anything as a participant of four and a half years of war went and faced responsibility, both truth and reconciliation, you can see through the catharsis of B92 television, that I was sitting with both the Muslim of the BiH Army and the Croatian Army of Croatia and we talked about how to get past all this. I haven't said for a moment that there's nothing to justify, or that I've justified anything that our people have done. Anyone who's done anything should be convicted. But you LDP gentlemen are constantly justifying the NATO Pact. You talk about NATO integration all the time. How do you want Serbian citizens to observe, at least those who defended this country with a rifle, and didn't leave when they received a call abroad, to look at you? They have to think of someone who justifies and wants to justify the actions of the NATO Pact in 1999. That's what they're looking at. (President: Mr Dujovic, since you have now said completely openly that someone is trying to justify the NATO Pact action, all you have to do is take care of the weight of the words you say and that this may be offensive to the LDP parliamentary group. I ask you to take care of it because in a rough way you characterized the entire parliamentary group and you could have done an insult. Mr. President, I stand behind every word I say. I don't want to say what's true at all. If the truth hits anyone, really, colleagues, I apologize, the truth knows it hurts. But the truth hurts those people who took the gun and went away from their children and defended this country, and some others got on a plane and went to New York. In that name, I won't answer again, no matter what is said in my account. Indeed, victims do not deserve to be separated either in 1991 or 1999. On that behalf, I have no apologies for either LDP or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11814	Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11815	If the requirement to determine the exact number of NATO bombing victims is a justification or attempt to justify NATO bombing, then I really don't know who I can talk to about it. No one's gonna justify it, but even on the contrary, let's find out once how many people died. It's really inadmissible to talk like this, Mr. Dujovic. I'm not talking to you, I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. The demand, justification, policy and arguments on why it is good for Serbia to be a NATO pact member does not mean either the 1999 NATO bombing justification. How can you connect that to each other? Germany was divided after World War II into four Allied forces, so it eventually established a NATO pact. I don't understand. How can you connect those two things? I don't justify anyone, nor did it ever occur to us to justify NATO bombing. We can talk about what it came for, what happened. It's neither the time nor the place to talk about it. Don't, Mr. Dujovic, in that way prove patriotism. It seems to me that it's past the time of Serbia and talking about who's like this, who's been to New York, etc. Please, I guess that's what you were supposed to say before me, ask them to pee once and get published, in fact, they're listed, just to be published. Don't point out that you're bigger Serbs than we are because you participated in the war, and we're not. We've all been under NATO bombs, and that's why we need to find out how many people died, to see the relationship between, say, civilian victims and uniform victims. Advocating NATO membership in the pact is not an excuse for NATO bombing. I made an argument about the foreign direct investments that NATO countries have attracted. If it doesn't matter to you, it doesn't have to matter to you. We care about the job, we care about every investment, so that's what we're different about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11816	Mrs. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11817	I'll be very brief, since I don't tend to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I really do now. I think you have violated members 108, 109 and 110, when it comes to MP Dujovic, without any need to defend any parliamentary group, as well as the LDP. I think Mr. Dujovic should know that patriotism is respected in peace as well as that during the rule of certain defence ministers, as many soldiers as in the war were killed. I didn't notice that, say, he supported the proposal of a survey board on the Topcider murder that was killed during the peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11818	Minister Vukic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11819	I'd just like, not to go into any political debates, to give more information to Mr. Ostojic. So I told you that a total of 659 people were killed during NATO aggression at the time of the soldier's death, 631 missing 28 people. As far as the M.O.P. is concerned, we've received new information. So 325 people died, gone 24, a total of 349 people, so a total of 1008 soldiers and policemen died in NATO aggression. That's exactly what you're talking about. If during the day we were able to get to the number of civilian victims, because there are considerations, and more commissions were giving different data. This is exactly what you've got for the military and the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11820	Did you want, like, a replica? Replica, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11821	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Wolfie, for this information. A lot of respect and great regret for everyone who's been killed. The investigation, the procedures for determining responsibility against those who caused casualties in that war, in violation of the laws and customs of war, as well as such. Mr. Dujovic, I'm really afraid I'm moving on in these replicas, because the consequences are getting harder and harder. I don't think Mr. Vukic should be abstaining from political comments. I think you're jeopardizing him with your comments. This does not mean that it justifies what happened in that war in 1999, just as I suppose you who are sitting with your colleagues and former enemies in some war from Croatia or BiH do not justify all that they or their armies, the armies they belonged to, did in that war, or against the people of our people. I'm sure you don't do it, so don't accuse the LDP of doing it with its political push to join the NATO alliance. If you bring your logic to an end, then it justifies actions or crimes by NATO anyone who today advocates European integration, anyone who talks to NATO officials from your political party today, from any other political party. Of course, I fully support what Mrs Batic reminded us of. The investigations of some other crimes that have also occurred, which did not occur in the war, but are obviously linked to the legacy of war, must be carried out and you are one of the politicians who, in this assembly, seemed to me, did not support the initiative that came a few weeks ago. (President: Time. Don't laugh, Mr. Arsic. We've all been under NATO bombs. I see that was funny to you in a little earlier debate. We were all under NATO bombs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11822	Do not speak to other MPs, especially in such a way, commenting on something that is not correct. Let's get back to the debate. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11823	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, dear friends, it is very difficult to continue the debate after so much bile in the part of the topic that is not on the agenda. I just want to remind you that we had a similar discussion several times in the previous period and that we gave that same data in that period, that there was even a book that was printed with names, photographs of individual members of today's Yugoslav Army and places where and in what way they were injured, for those of whom they were known. So today, no new information has been made public. On the contrary, these data are known and long ago published, and I think raising a reputation about it just disabling us here in the Assembly. Because we're not going in the direction of what's today's agenda. I would like to express my sincere respect for all members of the Serbian Army who are present at this time in peacekeeping missions, and there are currently 110 of them. If we compare 2008 when there were 16 and today 110, and by the end of this year there will be 289, we can see exactly how the defence reform process brings some results and how and how professionalisation of the Serbian Army allows Serbia to be presented today at a much greater capacity in the international community and in those parts of jobs that are probably the most difficult for the international community, which is to preserve peace and security in the areas where it is most important. That this is an extremely important thing, I point to the fact that before 2007, then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's government decided to even participate in a peacekeeping mission, "Isaf" in Afghanistan, that a decision was made that a medical team within the Norwegian contingent participates in the peacekeeping mission. Then it was an extremely visionary idea that unfortunately did not come to life. There was not enough courage for it to come true, but I believe that in future times we will have the strength and desire, as we today have a very good parliamentary discussion that is not colored by day-to-day political or political performances, that we will have, above all, a relationship with the interests of Serbian citizens, the interest of our country, but also the interest of the Serbian Army. Every member of the Serbian Army who spent a certain amount of time on peacekeeping missions, and I had the opportunity to speak to hundreds of them, brings in one experience that he could not acquire in our country's peace situation. This is not only the presentation of our army abroad and the raising of our country's capacity, but also the raising of our army's operational capabilities and that is something that is immeasurable and very important, because in these circumstances it shows that our army has extremely good training, and in future time I hope that it will have an even bigger one. Today we can say that, fortunately, the fact is, we happen to be killed by members of the Serbian Army in our country in training or in car accidents, which happened just these days, but we haven't, and I hope we won't have victims in peace missions, which in this shows that there is a high degree of training and awareness of it, in the position we are in. It is important to say that this is part of the process, that it is part of the reform process that brings a serious result and that this reform process raises the capacities that can be seen today in our relations within diplomacy. A few months ago, we had the opportunity to hear the minister say that thanks to our medical team, the country of Serbia in Norway is extremely highly respected. Then it was said that there were only two doctors, there were much more, there were a whole hospital, 24 members of the medical team including the staff of officers, which suggests that we had previously possibly participated with Norway on a peacekeeping mission, we would certainly have an even stronger relationship. This peacekeeping mission was the result of the 2006 agreement to participate in Afghanistan, after which, since it was not realised, we took the obligation to engage our military hospital in the first next peacekeeping mission and to be with Norway, because Norway is an extremely large friend of Serbia. Today, there is virtually no hospital, home of health, kindergarten or local self - administration that has not received assistance from Norway at a certain time. The money invested is always questionable, is it small, is it great for a country like Serbia? He's certainly big, but for what he's bringing back, I don't think he's and that we should go in that direction anyway. If we look at certain countries in the environment, we will see that they focus primarily on participating in peacekeeping missions. In particular, let's say Bulgaria. They gave practically all the focus of their military engagement to participate in peacekeeping missions and today Bulgaria, as you know, is a member of not only NATO, to whom in this case we are not seeking because of a declaration that exists in the Assembly, but is an EU member. Bulgaria has these large investments or more investment than it was before, precisely because it takes and participates in some operations that are quite complex and quite serious, and its military currently formats exactly that way. I think today is one of those decisions that we should all support in parliament. I don't think this support is just supporting government policy, this is supporting one continuity and supporting all those young people who are going to be involved in one of the peace missions. I know there are three and five and nine times more members of the Serbian Army who want to participate in peace operations. I am particularly pleased that in some past period we have introduced women soldiers who participate in peacekeeping operations and this is also important from the aspect of the UN Resolution on the position of women in the security and defence system. This shows that in today's democratisation process, our country has reached a certain level of praise and no doubt has support in the world, especially in that part of the world that looks at and deals with security. I had the opportunity to hear and speak to an esteemed DSS colleague who told us how and how the US Senate works and in a commendable speech to the government said that today's government respects the court's decisions, unlike some last government. I'm not sure I understood who you meant, and I'd like you to tell us here which government didn't respect the court's decisions? I remind you that the Constitutional Court's decision to amend and supplement the Law on VBA and VOA was just made last year, when we no longer had this Parliament's meetings, and that these laws have been functioning since 2009 and certainly that the former government, if it had had had the opportunity, would have brought amendments and additions to this law in that direction. That's why I don't think it's correct to say that some former government didn't respect the court's decisions. At the very least, you were a member too, not you personally but your party was a member of some governments we can also say that they did not respect the court's decisions, if you were referring to those governments. On the other hand, I think there's one thing we need to explain. In 2009, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of Defence, parliament passed the Law on VBA and the VoA and it was the law that created the only specific and clear procedure in which the VBA can come into possession, to say the Colloquial, the document, with the positions of whoever spoke. It was then considered and we had the approval of the government of the Republic of Serbia's legislation that it was in accordance with the Constitution. It was later found not to be, but I remind you that today the Ministry of the Interior does not have such a provision. We today don't know how it works on that and the BIA. At that time, in 2009, it was a revolutionary decision which in some ways spoke very precisely about how it could be done so-called. the documentation and how it can be determined where people were at the time when they talked, without seeing that communication and without being able to read any communication. Today we hear it's anti-constitutional law. I remind you, at that moment, no one assumed it. But regardless, amendments and additions to the law bring one higher level, which will operationally prevent people in the VBA from functioning in the way they did it. I think there's always one idea here that as much as possible for those who need to fight organised crime and corruption as possible, and then later we complain about those services that are not timely and not fast. Somehow, we always start from the fact that someone will abuse their position. I'm afraid that way we'll go one completely wrong way and the wrong way. What's important is to say, and what I support and what's usually an idea that I've promoted a long time ago, but unfortunately we haven't had a chance to implement, it's that, based on the experience that exists in Great Britain, they would fully support the formation of an agency as an independent body, which would own all the telecommunications and which would be a provider for all those legally authoritalised agencies and would be able to get certain information through that agency that would divert calls, etc., to agencies, and it itself would not be able to access that data, that is, it would be just a tent to which those who have the authorization would register to get that data. In this way, they would avoid any possibility of an affair, such as the autumn affair of last year on the document, on monitoring, etc. Because then you would know exactly who it is that can achieve insight and in what way and with which procedure, and I think that would take off one veil of the occult shops, etc., which are very often shaken by the public in Serbia. The Democratic Party believes that this direction of action and regarding the Law on VBA, and certainly regarding the use of the Serbian Army outside the country's borders, is positive. We support, above all, members of the Serbian Army and the Serbian Army who take part, we are pleased that there are young people in the army who, in addition to working in the military and earning certain funds, consider patriotic acts of participation in peace, implementation of peace, and support that old story in which the country defends itself beyond the borders of our country. I remind you, these are the tendencies of security and the East and the West and practically all the countries of the world that today want to be influential in this very way and influence. For those Yugoslavs, I want to remind them that at the time that Yugoslavia had the highest capacity diplomatically and internationally, we had then the largest contingent that was in the Middle East, which was under the command of the then JNA officer, and thanks to these activities, we also had the opportunity to listen that Yugoslavia had a great, or extremely large influence within the framework, not only of the unclassified but also of the UN. So, we will vote in favour of both proposals, participation in peace missions, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VBA and VOA, with what I believe, there is a need for these laws to be changed, in certain segments. During my work at the Ministry of Defence, and last year's example is obvious, there are certain things that don't have to come to parliament, the use of the army in a particular mission should, but there is a way of using, or plan yearly is unnecessary, in my opinion, I think that it can bring the government itself, because last year we had a situation practically by the end of the year, because of the known things, which is primarily because of the election calling. We have only, at the end of the year, adopted a plan of use for the year that has already passed. It wasn't the ministry's responsibility, I think practically the same people who worked at the ministry on those assignments over the last year are working now. We also delivered to Parliament last year that time, but unfortunately the parliament that was disbanded could not make that decision, and we found ourselves in a legal interface, which ended up, to say adequately, but if we had had had had some losses, I'm afraid then we would really come into a position that would be very difficult for the authorities at the time, but also for the government and parliament, because we didn't make a legal form, or we did some lex specialis, which doesn't satisfy the legal form that is necessary. I am giving you so much suggestion that you try to find a more elegant way for parliament to be familiar, but that it does not deal with activities in the exact number of members of the Serbian Army. It is enough that we know that it is going to Congo, Liberia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cyprus or Syria, and whether it will be two Sanitary officers, three headquarters, five of these or those, I think it is the thing that should be left as freedom first of all that part of the Serbian Army that deals with peace operations, because they know it much better than we do here in parliament, even if you are sitting, in the ministry itself, and they should be able to fill those places that they consider to have the best whenever and that they can make these changes in the given time, not that they are waiting for the assembly to slow you down and disable you in a certain part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11824	The word has a Minister Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11825	Just two words, neither you nor I were right about the number of our members in Chad, 14 was in 2010, and 24 was never. There were 27 in total, in rotation, a year before that, I accept, it's a technical mistake, a man can't remember everything. What you're right about is that we have an increasing number of women and of which in the operation in Congo we have 27 women, in Chad 6, in Cyprus 6 women, Lebanon 4 women, and this speaks of the ability and willingness and professionalisation of both the seriousness and access to reforms of the Republic of Serbia's Army. When I came to the Ministry of Defence, I didn't even know, and I didn't expect it to be so many women, and I think that I said it earlier, but they didn't agree at the General Staff, and I expect that within a year we have the first wife of the general or the general, however you want it to be said, so it'll be something for Serbia's history.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11826	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11827	Mr. Minister, gentlemen, members of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we exclude these dilemmas about NATO aggression, about the number of deaths, judging by the discussions of my predecessors, it is concluded that the proposal to amend and supplement this law as well as the plan and decision to use our forces in the framework of multinational operations will receive the support of this home. For clarifications, the number of deaths in a book called "heroes of the Fatherland" with exact photographs, the circumstances of the death, I would recommend those who don't know, let them read it. As for the name of the 1999 air campaign in March, it was irrefutablely referred to as "Merciful Angel". When it comes to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law and these plans, I would say that Hamlet's dilemma, when it comes to the functioning of the security service, is how to make a harmony between the two basic principles. One is the principle of legality, and the other is the principle of efficiency. We heard in today's debate that we were I2003. In 2006, and so on, in 2009, we passed some system laws, but I fear that in the heat of this society's desire, that these infamous services in the 1990s are placed under civil and democratic control, I think that in all existing legal solutions, we have overemphasized the principle of legality at the expense of the principles of efficiency. You will agree that inefficient services are not needed by anyone, not even this country. When I and my esteemed colleague Mr. Kovac reformed the VSB and formed the VBA, we translated all the legal solutions of leading countries or countries with developed democracy and I can tell you that they are a much more rigid and flexible self when it comes to the method of special means of work. For those who do not believe, I would have them read the U.S. Security Service Act, where one member is told "if the President of the United States estimates that vital and state and national interests are at risk in the part of the United States territory, the head of the service concerned may be granted unlimited application of specific methods and means of work. "Try to translate the existing laws of powerful intelligence security systems, so you will find the extent to which we wander when it comes to positioning our security services in our country. There is a second opinion that, as the country is territorially smaller, economically weaker, militaryly weaker, services should be proportionately dimensional to its economic power or size, which is entirely wrong and incompatible. I would refer you to the solutions that Israel has as a country, which is a smaller country in economic and territorial terms, which are needed by more powerful security services, because it is more vulnerable, it is exposed to a number of security challenges, risks and threats. In our solutions and dimensioning the security services, we have managed the first principle, so we adequately economic power and the size of the country, dimensioned our military-intelligence-security system. I think I'd like to use the presence of Mr. Minister, a colleague of the service, or the Director of the Military Security Service, here to potentiate a few of the necessary questions. We, ladies and gentlemen, must seriously consider redefining the work of the security service. We must escape from a stereotype by which, roughly, in the harshest sense, the simplest sense of the service deals with espionage, terrorism and organised crime. I think that the existing security challenges, risks and threats, and potential security challenges and risks and threats require redefining both the VBAs and the BIAs. It still persists in these proposed amendments and additions to this law and in the previous current Law on VBA and BIA, I do not see by the prescribed workaround and tasks that this necessary adaptation to the real needs of our country has been carried out. I think above all, Mr Popovic and some of my predecessors spoke of the need to put security services in the country's economy, as the predecessors of the country's economy in terms of protecting the market, in terms of research into the credits of companies investing in our market and buying our businesses, in terms of economic espionage and the discovery of new patents, in terms of research into competition on the economic market in the international community, in terms of energy stability, as my predecessor said, in terms of our country's environmental security and many other issues. Today, classical espionage in such a transparent society as ours, where everything has become transparent to the extent that the concept of state official military secrets is so demoted, that I simply think that it is very narrowed down to the amount of data, jobs and tasks that represent a state, military and official secret. It has been declassified by the practice of classical spying, but economic espionage and how it is present and is a problem for this country. The second question, is an organization that should be dealt with, is an intelligence and security system organisation. Regardless of what the Security Service Coordination Bureau has done, it has made significant moves in the synchronisation of the affairs and tasks of all the intelligence and security system entities, I personally think, and this is what one of my predecessors said, that the distinguished colleague Batic, we need to think about one question – do we need military intelligence and that we have a segment of a security-informative agency that deals with intelligence work? I think we're a very small country, from the aspect of efficiency, from the aspect of military coordination, we need to form a single intelligence service in this country. I think we also need to think about some solutions when it comes to a military-security agency and a security-intelligence agency. I think we're too small of society and too small of a country to have such a fragmented security service, because that's how they coordinate and their, therefore, efficiency of work. As regards the proposed amendments and additions to the law, four specific measures of secret data collection, one of these measures has so far been in the hands of the Director of the Military Security Agency on the basis of some decisions of the International Court of Justice in Stabur, and on the initiative of the Citizens' Protectors, the Constitutional Court has decided that such a solution is not in line with the Constitution. We are trying these amendments and additions to the law, i.e. I believe that we will be able to bring it into line with the Constitution, where these measures will be applied, and it will be the secret interception of electronic communications without any insight into their content, or people's words, and at this time popularly "listing", has been approved by the Director of the VBA, now the competent judge of the Great Court of Justice in the seat of the competent Court of Appeal will approve. What's the problem, I'm going back to what I was saying from the beginning of the presentation, is that there are elements here that didn't think about the efficiency of the security service. Imagine the situation, according to the proposed amendments and additions, no later than eight hours from the proposal of the Director of VBA or OBA for the application of this measure, the competent judge of the High Court should make a decision, i.e. approval for the application of the measure. Now, one simple example. You know there are protected personalities in the Department of Defense, as well as in the government. The director of VBA or any VBA operative gets the information that the NN face is preparing a murder or terrorism on a protected person. You will agree that an urgent need is being created for the current application of this measure, which would reveal its entire network of links and thus an urgent response in a preventive sense so as not to do so. Imagine what eight hours it is and what the director of the VBA is going to do without being responsible if, God forbid, it happens, and how up-to-date our courts are, then it can be eight hours at the latest. I'm afraid it'll be a long time. Or, if one and the other services come up with information on the planning of concrete terrorist activity on a military facility, do you think it is necessary to respond urgently and apply this measure, as it was 24 hours ago with a delay, that within 24 hours, the competent judge must make a decision or the measure is automatically abolished. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I am speaking to you as the co-ordinator of the Security Service Coordination Bureau, perhaps to organise in this House a public hearing on several topics, where representatives of the competent committees, representatives of the security services, the non-governmental sector, the Citizens' Protector, the Public Information Commissioner, prominent institutions dealing with security matters, would consider these issues when it comes to the dimensioning of the Security Service, when it comes to redefining the focus of the Security Service's work, when it comes to coordination between the Security Service and many other issues that now, respecting this time and your obligations, I would not point out. I disagree, counterpart Batic said that the data obtained by applying specific measures of secret data collection can no longer be used as evidence in the court procedure, only in the framework of preventive operational work. Otherwise, data obtained by applying these measures in the context of concrete processing and how they can be used as court evidence. There's a nice observation by Mr Popovic about funding the security services. Believe me, I've checked a century in the security services and no security service in the world, not even in Albania, is transparently providing data on the funds it has. I would continue, no service will call a public competition, as BIA does, for the admission to the working relationship of its members. If I were in charge, God forbid, of some service that means evil to this country, I'd install 20-30-50 of my agents through that contest and hire them in those services. I'm just an example of how careless and "transparent" we are in the public service of security, and I think that's damaging to vital state and national interests. These amendments and additions to this law show that there is a clear distinction between general security and counterintelligence, which was necessary because the existing legal solutions have somewhat intertwined these matters. You have seen and noticed that the number of special measures of secret data collection is being limited, or reduced. These amendments and additions align the Security Act with the existing classification, use and storage of classified information and regulate the procedure with the data to which one and the other services come, and do not concern hostile activities in and against members of the military and the Ministry of Defence, their compliance with the competent national authorities. I think there's one inaccuracy. As far as I'm concerned, there is also an amendment to the Citizens' Protector where the data is defined which is given to other bodies, which are being destroyed, because if all those data which are not related to the defence preparations of the military, or the hostile activities in and towards the military and the Ministry of Defence were to be given to other authorities, and not from their jurisdiction, then they would create the position of possible abuse. When it comes to the plan of use and the decision to use representatives of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations, I would like to thank the defence ministry. I believe, and on the board of directors, we discussed it, that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior in time, unlike last year, when at the end of the year we adopted such a decision and such a plan, we co-ordinated. At the beginning of the year, we have a clear plan and a decision on the participation of our military representatives in multinational operations. In order not to talk about the figures, how much costs they are, this is Mr. Minister and my debater, increasing the number of members in Lebanon, I believe that the Ministry of Defence has heard and the Ministry of Interior from the aspect of the future participation of our members in multinational operations at some other hotspots, making sure that our participation in some more serious conflicts today in some countries that are characterized as carriers of international terrorism or where they are registered holders of international terrorism, that we carefully measure our participation from that aspect, that our participations do no harm and threaten the indirect or direct security of our country. What I finally want to say is that it is necessary to seriously consider whether the threat to the capacity of our intelligence and security sector is being used in the fight against international terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia today, at least in my humble court, is not exposed to the threats posed by international terrorism, but Serbia is today exposed to the threat of open separatism and socialism. Are we going to make a fund out of our solidarity in the fight against international terrorism, to focus part of our intelligence and security capacity on these activities? I think we've pre-named it, and even our services have been instrumentalized in the function of combating international terrorism. Serbia today is not exposed to threats of international terrorism, but is also exposed to both separatism and open secessionism. I'm afraid it's not a fund made in terms of hiring our intelligence and security capabilities in this other respect. So I think it is necessary and I think that the mature conditions after these major changes and the addition of the first law of 2003, so in 2006, and so in 2009, and here are these changes, that, Mr. Minister, by the end of this year, we are planning a public debate, a public hearing on this subject where we would better specify the work and tasks of the security service, coordination, their dimension and many other issues which, in my view, are not sufficiently defined for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11828	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, but only until the completion of a joint principled single search that is under way, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda as soon as possible. I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11829	Does one of the presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11830	Dear Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable officers, Mr Kovac, it is a great pleasure to participate in this debate, which is what we all participate in today, if we exclude that little quasi-political crash of data, with great piety, we have talked about both the subject and the people who are concerned about this topic, which is not by any chance. I would no longer than 10 minutes, just remind myself of two things, one of the symbolic importance of the first two points, the annual plan and the decision to use, of the engagement of our security forces in missions. Because of citizens, it may need to be constantly reminded, the whole system of today's Army of Serbia is a system which, of all the systems of the previous states, has suffered the greatest and quantitative and qualitative changes in this period, and in doing so, all the time the gentlemen of the Ministry, the VBA and the VOA, know that in those years when no one would expect it, our soldiers were engaged in missions, above all in those who were sanitary character, and have truly fulfilled everything that we cared about, which is, the symbolic quality of representing our country and our military, then getting to know the experiences and look only at those assessments in all these decades that our missions have received, all of all whether they have found themselves in the place where the coup was taking place or earthquakes were taking place, or have been taking place classic peace operations. Finally, this type of message was extremely important for our military forces in the country that were going through an extremely difficult and stressful period. Why am I saying this? Because during today's day, there were at least two members of the VSO, two defence ministers, from the past 10 years and at least two VBA directors, sitting in this room. I don't get into who he is or how he did his job, but people with different experiences know that there were only a few self-resistance points for the self-respect of our army and that those rebel points were usually symbolic, and that by contrast, there were all these traumas from the past that really didn't fully activate here, causing some political disagreements, but only to be reminded that the specific experience and enormous heroism, first of all the officers and officers in the period of 1999, were also involved in that kind of experience that our participants in peace operations passed on. Finally, if we exclude the material consequences and consequences of the people, the way the Serbian Army has professionalised all this has left a terrible trail, and not only should the legal framework be established, not only the Parliament's decisions, but not just the adoption of a strategy from one that was adopted at the level of Serbia-Montenegro, I think, in May 2004, and finally formed, the previous military minister, in the meantime, became Serbian President, Mr Tadic, I think, finally, in September 2004, Mr Kovac will know that, or October and already in the context of that strategy, is a fundamental change and what Mr Stojanovic was talking about, which is the role of the service, the concept of our strategy and mission of our military forces. For this reason, I will return to the first two points, from Haiti, Liberia, Lebanon, the Ivory Coast, a completely different level of co-operation and the acquisition of new experiences and the transfer of experiences of our units, a kind of encouragement, which, in order to understand, is similar to that of the species, which happened for the first time in 16 September 2006, when after 100 years, the Serbian Army had a ceremony and a parade of graduates, or officers trained at our academy, here in front of the House of the National Assembly and I want to thank this opportunity to all the people of the then ministry, and many have now, who were one of the initiators of this and the people of the then presidency, the National Assembly, because this kind of ceremony has succeeded in a symbolic way to compensate for all the trauma that our army went through in the previous period. When we remind ourselves, and I think that even last time there was one topic like this, the minister was pleased to find, what the previous defence ministers had observed, which is the treatment, position and impact of our soldiers on the mission wherever they were, that it was the same, that we had independent of the changes that were in the military all along. I can't help but remember with regret that they were retired early not only because of the strategy and the change of strategy, a whole series of extremely high-quality officers who showed up in 2004 when the greatest military exercise was carried out. After that, there was only one similar to the Cave, but this one was the largest. It's the Blue Road, prepared for six months and implemented so that our army then applied NATO standards for the first time. Since it's an international military exercise, along with the forces of Romania, it turns out our staff has managed to master it. Some of the people sitting here took part in it and watched it. They remember, in each segment of a very technologically complex, fortifying very complex exercise, almost every segment had to wait for Romanian military forces already members of NATO and operating according to standards. So these are their domestic standards. Turns out he's ready and capable of a new frame to this extent, to adopt, apply new experiences, and at the same time enrich them with that experience from the most difficult period that has been acquired in our units. In the next period, we're gonna have to do something. I think you, Minister, are aware of that and from that answer that you've given as a financial issue of difference for both sides of security, we don't single out enough money because we're poor. I don't think you thought someone had to be reduced, but it had to be even. So we have to invest more, because from the experience of these major changes we have seen that in our units, our military representatives, who go on missions, others are ready to invest. Every time we thank the willingness, especially Norway, and then after joining the Partnership for Peace and other partners on the internal agenda, first and foremost the Guards from Ohio on the outside, other countries that have helped us and passed on knowledge and also spread a good voice about our army and our security forces. Whenever such a topic appears, it will always be such a nice and easy position as the defence minister. Independent of a person, not only now when it comes to a person who unites several functions, but also the minister of defense, because the willingness of all MPs and the awareness of the symbolic importance of the army is such that they will always use such tones, people who are currently a position or opposition, speak and only highlight certain aspects of this engagement. It has a bit of mythical proportions. Mr. Wolfie, I want to tell you again something that I said back then, on that 16th September here, to the state summit at the time. We need to know all the time. Even more pride is not for people who decide and talk about it, but for people who participate. As much more important, more beautiful when you're in a machine here in front of the House of the National Assembly in September than when you're on this stage from which you command. All the people in the military know that, and you can imagine what kind of experience, which kind of energy comes from people who participate in international missions. This is purely political support, because otherwise neither point has any serious reason to have this kind of discussion except for the willingness of all MPs to show to what extent they support something they know is always being supported. The second question is the third point. These are the amendments and additions to the laws that have come before us by the Constitutional Court Decision. I just have to say, these two services have been through a rough patch. Not only has the function and environment changed, but in the past 10 years this service has been in unhealthy competitive relations with other services and agencies. We know that this home, this plenary part, is not a place where we can and we need to present the different problems that VBA and VOA have been going through. The fact that the Constitutional Court's decision has led to the additional impossible position of the VBA and the VOA and that, with the huge delay of the National Assembly, we are removing only the problems created in this segment. The Constitutional Court's decisions are not commented. Of course, I'm not going to do it either, but just look at the 8a, 8b and 8v that have been tried and explained and said that this is also based on conversations with experts, to replace everything that is from my point of view, from the point of view of human rights endangerment was controversial, but everything that has been taxually preceded in the legal solution. I'll take a look at Mrs Batic's amendment, if I've heard her statement correctly. I haven't seen the amendment. I'm sorry. It's possible that I might vote for this amendment or any other amendment. As there is a fame about the strength and power of our intelligence services, their power, and you who work in them know with how many people and what material resources you have, how limited resources are, there is also a fam that you can limit this type of technology to a whole series of operational activities. In the meantime, that's why I mentioned this amendment regarding cryptic activity, technology has made so much progress that neither this legal nor previous legal solution in any way, if there's any money for VBA or VOA, it's not going to be a problem. In that sense, you don't have to worry too much. If you don't believe it, Mr. Kovac, try a court order, say you're listening to my phone, and you'll know the result. It's not that simple and easy today. It is my great pleasure, and therefore I, and the parliamentary group of the URS, will surely support both this plan and this decision and these changes. I say again, we'll look at the amendments. I haven't arrived for medical reasons to look at them so far. Maybe we'll vote from one of the amendments. Also, I'm asking you all to know, the next time you come up with a legal solution from any of this area, don't expect so many pies to be talked to. Why? Because in this area legal solutions should be changed both because of new standards and because of our international obligations and because we have to adapt our budgets to the scale of what our country is. In different ways what should be proportionate and what should be disproportionate, and today in this very dignified debate, it has been pointed out several times that we are a country, which is our role in the region, how much we are a country and what our reach is. There's something we can symbolically make up for, and that's what these peace missions are for, and there's something we can't do. The fact that we can't, we have legal solutions to remove and that we don't have that kind of deception. That's what I wanted to say today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11831	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11832	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a debate a month and a half ago, two on the same topic in this high house, on the same day, that same evening, there was one reception at the House of Guards in Topcider and the Chief of Staff was hiding the hidden satisfaction that he first saw in the National Assembly one full understanding of the defence system and today's role of the Republic of Serbia military in the circumstances as they are today. I would also agree with Mr Markovic and all respected colleagues who, with a lot of dignity and a lot of arguments and with the best understanding and intentions, talked about decisions that are on the agenda today. I would also like to point out my satisfaction that most MPs supported the position of our parliamentary group, which was carried out by Miss Olgica Batic, on the need for reform of military-security agencies. What's important for SPO and DHSS is that when it comes to defending the country, and we stick to tradition, there really is no place for politics, there is no place for party interests, and that's how Serbia and all its governments, when they were in dramatic circumstances, acted, and all the political parties. So, and what has been benign today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I understand it only as a landing ground after that drunkenness since the 1990s and as a consequence of a certain hangover, which fortunately is not dominant. Which is why the SPO and the DHSS will vote in favour of the law in this area, above all because it is the policy we have been representing since the establishment of our political parties. It is a policy that caused many of our supporters and supporters to lose their heads and jobs and get the epithet of traitors in the years of the 1990s, when we felt that politics, primarily the state summit, and the military is there to implement the government's policy, so responsibility is not on the members of the Republic of Serbia's army in the 1990s for all the bad things that have happened, but only at the state and political summit. That is why this is a great satisfaction for our political parties, because Serbia is going in the best possible direction. It is also probably the best liquid on October 5th, because many of our hopes have been betrayed in terms of both privatisation and corruption and crime and unregulated institutions, and that is not what we have advocated in the 1990s. The citizens often and often asked us for many reasons. Are these the changes we expected of you? I would once again point out that all defence ministers after 1990 made a serious and constructive contribution to the Serbian Army today as a leading institution, not only in public opinion research, but also in the internal organisation, according to the expert staff, to understand the world's relations. We agree that the factors affecting security are both economics and foreign policy and foreign security policy. Serbia is in view of the best teams, the best ambassadors, the best diplomats being its soldiers, it is in Serbian tradition. Don't forget that before the Balkan wars, before the First World War, when our officer was educated in the West, the National Elders were replaced by trained officers, which gave an extraordinary result both in the Balkan wars and in the First World War, and a Catholic pastor in the town of Evember, in May 1945, dedicated his sermon, at the time when the entire fascist Germany burned, to Serbian soldiers. In the shortest, 5,000 Serb officers then had the statute of prisoners of war. They were expecting revenge because of the crimes they committed in our premises, and Serbian soldiers and officers acted by kissing and hugging German children as their children, giving them candy and singing songs. Pastor, the Protestant priest said it was the greatest victory of military honor and Christian love a nation can make. Because of such a relationship, such an officer's staff and Paula Jurisic Stur and Dr Archibald Rice and many who did not come from these areas have been serving the Serb army and made an immeasurable contribution to the expansion of the Serb soldier's fame. Of course we have a dark period since 1945, when those who created Yugoslavia and the winners of the Balkan and First World War, when they were not allowed to say they created Yugoslavia, the army was also ideologically scarved and the consequences of this ideological impairment we felt in the most difficult and worst possible way in the period 1990 to 2000. What the goals of the Republic of Serbia's military participation in international peace missions are absolutely acceptable to us. It is interesting that, for example, as far as the EU's military operation is concerned... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, the EU in the Somalian Republic, in addition to the EU, NATO Pact, Russia, China and Japan, Norway, Croatia, Montenegro and Ukraine, seems to me that in the future we should pay attention to the collective security system and that without a shred of emotion, we rationally assess the position of the military in the future, in the collective security system, which brings many benefits to those who participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11833	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11834	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, the esteemed military executives, my colleague Nenad Popovic spoke of the law and thus left room for me to talk about decisions, which we should also decide in this assembly. When it comes to the law and its amendments, the DSS is ready to vote if any of its amendments are adopted and there's nothing against it. Moreover, there is a proposal to make this one step, towards making a new law appropriate. But when it comes to these decisions, we have one clue or one, so to speak, suspicion and criticism that we will present to this occasion. We see in this proposal that Serbia will have 475 members of the military and 15 members of the MUP in international operations during 2013. The defence minister explained that this is not a number that exists at one point, but that it is a figure that is total throughout the year, and that departures and arrivals, replacements, etc. make one of 280 as optimal, or greatest, perhaps smaller or larger during certain moments. Also, we have data on the price the state is going to pay, which is in the budget, and it's about 840 million dinars. The question I'm starting from is, are these numbers, how can I say, justifiable or not? Everything depends on the context, on the analysis, on the purpose and objectives of these missions, on what Serbia gets, even on the analysis of the cost-benefit ratios, or on the weak and the bad in all of this. When we have this in front of us, a plan like this, we have to see where it is and what Serbia is? It is a country that is in serious economic trouble, in major internal problems and turbulence, and is particularly a country, unlike all European countries, which has no control over their borders, internationally recognised borders. Moreover, it is a country that is under great pressure from the EU and the United States to give up one piece of its territory. These are all topics that have different aspects, implications, but the military aspect here is inevitable. The first thing people think is, who should defend the land? The army. We know that the military cannot defend Kosovo today, because only Serbia has accepted certain UN documents, which should in a peaceful way help to do the thing. Meanwhile, there have been unilateral Albanians and unilateral recognitions, primarily by EU countries. So, the military doesn't play an actual role here. We're all aware of that. However, we cannot take the impression when we talk about the employment of our soldiers and officers on various missions around the world, that it seems to be of good faith and in accordance with the good tradition of the Serbian and Serbian armies, but that it is done from one country that is on glass feet and which is not able at this time, not military but diplomatically, and then politically, to defend what it has in its own hands, and these are international guarantees of sovereignty and territorial integrity. It's a relationship that's important to determine whether this is meaningful or not. We believe that Serbia must have such missions, that it must also do traditions and work today to participate in such important UN activities and various military missions, of course, for peaceful purposes. Given this particular plan, we have certain questions and some criticism, which I'm about to present. We have 11 missions here, as you can see, and the DSS is wondering – are they all necessary? Does a number of these missions make more damage than Serbia's benefits, above all, given the possible developmental situation and developmental security strategies in Europe and the EU itself, and then Serbia? I'll stick to three missions that I'm sure don't need Serbia. Several may not be needed for reasons of being small and not being of great benefit, even those in terms of training and training, and some, of course, must retain and maintain because they are old missions, and the UN, such as in Cyprus, or in the Middle East, but also in the old missions in which the Yugoslav Army participated, and then the Serbian Army. Therefore, such missions must be maintained. Some kind of selection must be made or must be made, both today and tomorrow in terms of these missions, given some clear criteria. That's what I want to point out at this point. The mission in the Congo is as strange and problematic as the UN mission itself. I don't know, I don't know, probably that in the relevant services in the military and the Ministry of Defense there are analyses of all these situations where missions are sent, their origins, ways of crisis, consequences etc., but Congo is one case that is really drastic for these terrible events in the last two decades. It's a state that lost five million and 400,000 people between 1997 and 2006. It's the result of what happened in the neighborhood, so, in Rwanda during the 1990s. As you know, there was a great genocide and there, again, millions of people lost their lives. But these people were losing their lives because large Western companies, first of all, interfered in their internal relations, in view of Kong's wealth and newly discovered diamond mines, gold and rare minerals, which interfered with their governments, first of all, the United States and the United Kingdom, and the UN at the beginning of these conflicts in 1992. In 1993, they had to withdraw their missions from these peace-making perspectives and objectives. What happened in Congo, which is why the UN mission stands there today and tries to calm the situation is something that is indeed due to the great neo-colonial prejudgment of Western forces, such as those indictees and those previous events in Rwanda, when the genocide was committed and when the International Tribunal for Rwanda in its verdicts replaced criminals for victims, the victims were declared criminals, only because those people who were actually criminals were headed by the United States and Great Britain at the time. It was one of the heads of the people, Tuci, and President Uganda. These are the two states that were to take place after this completed genocide and help the International Tribunal create a breakthrough, aggression on the Congo and free the space for the performance of these large companies that will do the exploiting work in peace. We must also have this context in mind, that the UN only came in 2006. - In 2007, to sort of try to calm the situation. We should also bear in mind that in the field, military intelligence and other activities and capacities, they are primarily part of the institutions of countries that are interested, the United States and Great Britain. There is also France as an interested party to the diamonds and all that, and the EU has also had the opportunity to send its mission for a time. It's something I think Serbia, because of these very cloudy actions, has to keep track of where it's sending its missions and whether these UN missions have any purpose, or whether they are in some function of calming the terrible things that have happened, these predicated victims, millions of people who have been killed to cover it up in some way and things have kept running like nothing happened. The other two missions we are questioning are missions in Somalia, or Somalia and Uganda. From what I understand, Uganda should be trained for the security forces of Somalia, in the fight against piracy, terrorism, etc. These two missions are European security and defence policies. That's where we find one big problem. All European Security and Defence Policy missions since 2004 In 2005, they were strictly synchronised with NATO. There's been an agreement since 2002, so-called The Berlin Plus Agreement between the European Security and Defence Policy and NATO, which roughly says NATO agrees with all of the activities of European security and defence policy in the world, therefore, using troops that have begun to be created, unless NATO is interested in it. So, all that does not want NATO-led forces to do in these defence peacekeeping missions, and often these are very aggressive missions, such as Iraq, Afghanistan, or today Syria, all that NATO does not find appropriate, should and can do European defence policy and appropriate force. That's the case with Somalia. However, the agreement also says something else, that if this happens, the EU will use all possible security, material and NATO's command logistics. These are meat and nail -- NATO and European defence policy. They function as one system depending on opportunity, where intervention is carried out, which are objectives etc. If we are entering EU-led missions in a necessary way, we are also entering something that is in some broad sense of interest, and if you want NATO coordination. If we want to remain militaryly neutral, as is still our doctrine valid, we should not enter these things because these are not European authentic defence actions and strategies, but are very strictly coordinated, or even subordinated to NATO's NATO structure. That's what makes us think we shouldn't go. We have problems with European integration because of Kosovo, of course, because of the EU itself that will no longer spread, and it creates an illusion as if it can be entered to keep under the control of this country, which has hope that one day it will enter. It seems to me that you exaggerated when you said and wrote that Serbia should, I will paraphrasise, integrate as deeply as possible into European security and defence policy. You have one paragraph that says that. In fact, we cannot enter into this economic integration or market integration, let alone some others that are guaranteed by the SAA, and now we are going beyond that, we are entering this defence integration which has not been entered by all EU member states. Since December 2009, the European Union has had one contractually specific approach to defence issues. She knows she can't engage in defence matters all of her Member States. There are a lot of opinions, strategies, ideologies, etc. It has decided that if at least nine Member States want to carry out military, peace, etc. action in the world can do so under the EU institution if others do not object. It is in any case an action or an organization of loved ones, as the Americans would say, about Iraq and who wants to, who doesn't want to, doesn't have to. Then it happens that in these peace operations, and often aggressive operations are involved by those countries whose interest it is, rather than the EU's. If we're going on missions like that, then we don't know what we're doing. That's what I'm gonna end up with. We won't vote, and we can't vote for this decision because it covers all the missions, because there are at least three missions that, for the reasons that I briefly put out here, and that can be discussed for a long time, we can't support it. This is not in line with the defensive and peaceful philosophy of our military and state and we do not need such excursions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11835	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11836	The President-in-Office, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, respected members of the ministry, honourable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the NS parliamentary group supports the participation of our troops in UN peacekeeping missions. We are particularly pleased that at the beginning of the year we received a plan of participation of our troops in the UN forces as peace formations. We believe that it is primarily a huge military experience, and it certainly affirms our military knowledge and abilities and affirms Serbia as a significant factor that affirms its contribution to peace in the world. The amendment and addition of the Law on VBA and VOA, which was before us, came by emergency procedure, because it had previously passed the law, not long ago, in 2009, had legal inconsistency and inconsistencies with the Constitution, and it made it difficult to function and reduce its operationality and efficiency. National security is public well. It is defined as protecting the fundamental values of society and state institutions, as well as protecting vital national interests and the integrity of the state area. The strategic commitment of the RS to EU membership is also something that obliges us to promote national security not only but also to look at it in the context of contributing to the security of the Southeast European and European regions in general. The intersection of roads of various political and economic interests, located right in the Balkans, makes us think that the RS Secret Service is cooperative and capable of responding to all modern challenges, threats and risks that threaten the security of the state in the new military and technological era. We are a small country, and we face serious temptations, we are very vulnerable, very attractive to various bad intentions, bad appetites and separatist, secessionist ideas, and therefore these services are very important to preserve this country and its security. Services dealing with the protection of national security, BIA, VBA and VOA are successful and effective only when their work is not seen with the naked eye in ordinary citizens' lives. Their work is primarily in the prevention of any threat, threats, national security risks. Counterintelligence and intelligence are necessary and an integral part of the successful functioning of the state and the foundation of its security and security and guarantee of a peaceful future. The control role of the National Assembly should not be lost on its own account. Advanced technology improves all segments of society, including the need to make so-called. The secret services of the state and the military are constantly perfecting and modernising both knowledge and technology, in order to be truly effective in the part of the life of the society for which they exist, which is national security. Henry Ford said in his own time -- one legal certainty in the world can give a man knowledge, experience and ability. These are the key words on which the work of this service is based. Since we are aware of the globalisation of militarism and we are aware that there are permanent dangers to national security, especially in the geopolitical area in which Serbia is located, Serbia is a great responsibility for its own national security, but also to safeguard the security of the region. That is why Serbia plays a leading role in preserving the peace and stability of Southeast Europe. I'm going to count briefly what could be risks that are preventably necessary to prevent secret services, services dealing with the preservation of national security - armed assault, aggression of another country, internal armed rebellion, terrorism, diversion, espionage, politically motivated violence, the violent separation of the state area or similar forms of separatism, the subjugation of national and military power, the subjugation of economic power, as well as acts prohibited by international law – illicit trafficking in arms, drugs and people. The list is impressive and not final. The security capacity of the secret services of the State must be improved in all ways, and by law and sublegislative means, it must clearly regulate their functioning. This gives the services clear and guaranteed instruments of operational and efficient operation, without in any way jeopardising and affecting the rights of citizens whose interests and security make these services exist, protecting them within the state where they belong. Art. One, six, and thirteen. The draft laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law, have been made to the notional precision and harmonisation that is always important in the legislative legislation. Art. 9, 10, 11 and 12 are solutions that are very important for the legal functioning of the state, especially in cases of terrorism or separatism that are very present in various forms and which is an international problem, which is very often acting against national security and services, are those that need to prevent and prevent it from being observed. The NS parliamentary group has seen here in particular the personalization of the responsibility of service managers. This is what we consider a significant and qualitative improvement of the existing law. Art. The 7th and 8th are in line with the Constitution according to the Constitutional Court's decision. Art. 2, 3 and 4 and Article 14 guarantee the protection of the confidentiality of data, prevent their abuses, or establish control over possible abuse of acquired, detected or acquired information. The introduction of the proposed amendments and additions to the existing VBA and VOA law certainly made these important state and military services more efficient, more operational, and their operational work less visible, and thus more quality, which I understand as though overall security of citizens and states would be at a higher level. Bringing in sublegal acts that are important for their permanent operation in this way will be simplified and operational. Thus, if they are invisible, undetectable in everyday life, it means that they are doing their job responsibly, committed, and effectively. Then they are at a high level of professionalism and their efforts are justified. We are certainly proposing to consider the future of these two services and to unite in some future. Analysing the proposal and an explanation for the urgent procedure of this proposal to amend and supplement the law, I believe that in the voting day I can support it. I expect that the entire NS parliamentary group will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11837	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11838	Mr. Minister, Vice-President of the National Assembly, fellow MPs, my colleagues from the Parliament club spoke of two aspects of the problem, which concerns the proposed law and decisions to be made. I can say that in both discussion and discussion, he had a clear view, which is that changes in defence policy are necessary. This, as we all agreed, is a technical change of one law and a bill has been announced to cover a whole new matter relating to VBA and VoA. What I'm saying here is, since the Army is an important system, a large system, important to the state, that our parliamentary group in the previous period has been very critical of the policy of the previous government in the area of defence. We expect that in the next period, there will be a series of changes in a series of documents in the National Assembly, in order to make these changes, I would like to point out, in statements that may have been heard by the defence minister, concerning the position of the state in relation to military alliances, new relations concerning alliances and co-operation, will be translated through a number of new documents. The entire defense system can be seen through its policy, through the organization and structure of the system, the financing of the system, and through the security of that system, which we were talking about here today. In this defence policy section, our parliamentary group welcomed the start of the government's change in military neutrality certificates of the Republic of Serbia. It's something new compared to the period behind us during the previous government. In one of the discussions, I said that there was no word in the National Assembly that Serbia is a military neutral state, except for the fact that it is one sentence in one resolution and that it is a dead letter on paper. Now, of course, from the mouth of the defence minister himself, Serbia is said to be a military neutral state. Above all, in one of the statements, Mr. Minister, you said that Serbia would benefit not only NATO standards, but also Russian standards to improve the capacities and capabilities of its military industry. It's a new policy for us, and we support that policy. In order for this policy to change, for military neutrality to be confirmed, to strengthen the military, in order to achieve the security interests of the Republic of Serbia, and all of this is related to these missions and the laws we are discussing, we think that, in that sense, I will make proposals and ask a few questions, we need to do the following. First, it is necessary to change the national security strategy, which does not mention military neutrality in any segment. A defence strategy needs to be changed. It is necessary to amend the Law on the Army, the Law on Defence, the Strategic Proposal for Defence and the Doctrine of Defence. All these documents were made by seeing the Army of Serbia, not as a military neutral state, but as a system that slowly and gradually moves towards NATO membership. This could be seen through a series of phases that were happening. You know better than that. Of course, and through those objectives that are defined in the presentation document. If we define the state as military neutral, it must be seen and defined through a series of these important documents. In that sense, the question that has been asked is – how do we see the Army? If we're a military neutral country, to what extent, the DSS spoke, it's a complete professionalization of the Army that can only satisfy it. We see new trends in Europe, which are precisely about the question, right in countries that are neutral of war. We have an example of Austria. The recent event is very indicative of Serbia, and we need to talk about it. There the government raised a question of complete professionalisation, went to a referendum, had the courage to go to a referendum and ask the citizens what they thought about it. Austria, which is a military neutral, EU member, its citizens said – no, we want to serve a regular army. It's a tradition and awareness of military neutrality. I think that if the government runs such a policy, in this sense it would be necessary to think in this way and to fill the content of military neutrality. Of course, there are a number of questions here, I believe that we will have a very quick serious debate about, which involves a closed session, an annual state of defence report, where we would consider a number of issues relating to the entire military system. There are a number of issues raised about professionalization, which is the state of the active reserve, the state of the passive reserve, and what it will look like in the perspective of a situation where the Army is completely professionalised. As for the system itself and the organisation and finance itself, I must say that in the previous period, now, the military industry has achieved great jobs, has provided great resources for the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately in the structure of the budget these efforts, which we see you announcing, great investments that our military industry will have and the revenues it will make, are not met, the needs that would solve its material problems and raise its operational capacity and help to modernise a series of resources that are necessary. I don't know how this will be defined in this Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I believe that the trend in the reduction of the military budget that was in the previous period, we can think, it's part of the crisis, it has to be stopped, because at least when it comes to new aspects, conditions and operational capabilities, the need for modernisation, the need to solve some of the problems that relate, you know well, to important, large systems in the area of aviation. This way we can't solve it. What's also important, now we come to this law, is the strengthening of agencies, so VBA and VOA, which would protect this whole important and large system. My colleague Nenad Popovic was talking about this law. I would say a few things that I consider important, which are related to some solutions, and I would also point to the need to amend another important law that defines a law relating to the confidentiality of information. We have sharply criticised this law in the National Assembly, about a number of problems and indeterminateness. We believe that it does not meet the needs of balance, protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and protection of human rights. This law, which gives enormous authority to certain authorities of the sea, is largely indeterminate and leaves the possibility of discretionary authority to be changed. What I would say is that it is really good in relation to the basic text of the law and defined in Article 2. these tasks and responsibilities that have been put in place for the VOA. When it comes to defining, intervention to this Constitutional Court decision. There remains a dilemma whether this law is a place to define the jurisdiction of certain courts. You can think about the ease of work and the need to overcome that problem. We understand that, but we have an announcement by the Minister of Justice that a set of law in the area of justice, including the one relating to the regulation of jurisdiction of courts, will arrive very soon during the regular session at the National Assembly. Perhaps, in order to exclude any criticism, for the sake of systematicity, for the sake of the integrity of the entire system, it should have been left that the law governing the jurisdiction of the courts defines these obligations contained in Articles 8 and 9, that simply one such law does not assume the definition of the jurisdiction of a system law, and as regards the regulation of judicial matter. I think that's what counterpart Stojanovic mentioned, a member of the 10th basic text, as regards the possibility that BIA's director may order the start of a special procedure without the court's decision. That's one thing that we, I must say, have criticised in the previous period, even this part of internal and international tourism we can understand, but indeed the norm, the reasons for urgency, is so wide that it can fit into anything. Since very short deadlines are prescribed on which the courts comply with the proposals for applying these measures, the Supreme Court is eight hours, Cassation – 24 hours, we think that this norm, I do not see what kind of urgency cannot be overcome within eight hours. It's just that it's really about human rights and the whole problem. Of course, it concerns the basic text of the law and I believe that this will be discussed in the next period. As for the structure and employment itself in the service, I personally think it's a good decision to do checks by the minister. Simply, it's a kind of responsibility, but as someone who's not in the system, he can look into the needs of the system and the criteria that are necessary, but someone who has been handling the system for a very long time. In that sense, if the issue of strengthening the military, which is absolutely of interest to all of us, we have no dilemma about it, the DSS will always support it. In a situation where the fundamental state interest or security interest is the preservation of territorial integrity and constitutional order, we think that participation, as my colleague Professor Samardzic said, cannot be acceptable because through the operation, through the EULEX mission in Kosovo and through the operation in some other segments, it is certain that this international organisation violates our security and we cannot participate in its mission.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11839	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11840	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the proposal for a law on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2013 and a proposal for an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013 are two documents that give MPs a complete picture of the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that the Serbian Army could be used outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia as part of multinational operations. The defence law stipulates that the defence of the country is also being carried out in multi-national operations, which fulfils internationally accepted obligations stemming from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the UN and other international organisations. The Republic of Serbia has clearly demonstrated by employing the capabilities of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in UN and EU multinational operations that it is an active factor in preserving international peace and security in the world. Also, participation in those activities provides clear and firm proof of the consistency of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which advocates resolving all disputes peacefully, respect for international law and other widely accepted standards in international relations. The annual plan used by the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013 planned to send up to 475 members of the Serbian Army and 15 members of the MUP in multinational UN and EU operations. The implementation of the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013 requires funding of 839m dinars, up to 755m for the Ministry of Defence and around 83m dinars. For the implementation of this task, the UN provides nearly half of the money of around 358 million dinars. The annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army is being implemented under seven UN operations, one UN mission, one EU mission. The annual plan for the use of members of the MUP is implemented in the framework of three UN operations and one EU civilian mission. In my opinion, it is very important to note that the members of the Serbian and MUP armies are not in direct danger in either of the operations. Serbia's military members can face security threats in the Republic of Lebanon in the face of provocations, protests and roadblocks. The training of members of Serbia's military and the MUP is at a level that ensures the successful performance of all the tasks set, which are discussed so far by the experience of participation in these operations and high marks of the head and commanders of the contingents within which members of the Serbian Army carry out their tasks. Members of Serbia's military, participating in multinational forces operations, have the opportunity to exchange experiences, compare training, adopt new skills and standards, which is very important for further raising the level of training of members of the Serbian Army. Following the involvement of a member of the Serbian Army in UN peacekeeping operations, an interest has been expressed in training foreign members in the schools of the Serbian Army. For all things, the PUPS will vote in favour of the adoption of Serbia's Army and other defence forces' proposal and plan in the multinational operations in 2013. I personally advocate, since there have been other opinions here, that the plan's proposal should be used and decisions on the participation of Serbian military members are treated like this, means the present way, as this ensures transparency and information of MPs. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on VBA and VOA, in my humble knowledge of this issue, it is necessary to start from the geographical position of Serbia and so far the interests of intelligence services of other countries. The interests of other countries have always clashed in this area, and therefore Serbia's Army is often subject to research, interest and attempt to penetrate intelligence and other foreign organisations, groups or individuals. Serbia is on its way to transporting drugs from the east to the west, conflicts of organised crime and money laundering, international terrorism, intelligence, subversive and all other activities that violate the defence ministry's security and Serbia's military and state in general. We need an efficient, well-technically equipped and trained, with well-regulated legal frameworks and well-controlled VBA and VOA to ensure the successful security protection of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on VBA and VoA, in my opinion, allows these agencies to protect Serbia's Ministry of Defence and military well from previously mentioned actions and violations of Serbia's security and defence capabilities. The law is properly done, according to the similar laws in the environment and leading European countries, with a minimal encroachment in the Constitution guaranteed human rights and freedoms. In several places, the PUPS in the Law intervened with amendments, with the aim of enabling more effective work by the agencies to protect the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. I will present my views on the amendments, the day we discuss details. Through the amendments, I mainly advocated the extension of the powers of Director VBA in the application of special procedures and measures of secret collection of VBA data in emergency cases of internal international terrorism and all other forms of subversive action. According to knowledge that a member of a terrorist organisation, intelligence or any other organisation engaged in subversive activity is staying in Serbia's territory for a short time, a shorter period of time required to obtain the approval of a competent court for application of measures, or is only on a journey through Serbia, and it is necessary to control whether or not contact will be reached. In all of these cases, the Director of the VBA shall immediately inform the Minister of Defence and the Council of National Security and report on the need for such treatment and the results obtained. With this law, the VBA gets a tool in its hands with which, with great effort, I underline, the enormous efforts of the agency's members are successfully opposed to all kinds of subversive action. That is why the United Pensioners' Party of Serbia will support this law in the voting day, and I call on other MPs to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11841	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11842	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, officers, military officers, ladies and gentlemen, LDP will respond to this call and vote in favour of these laws. Fortunately, I think our reasons are drastically different from those spoken by some predecessors. It seems to me, that's what I have to say at first, although I don't doubt your best intentions, yet a little too often falling into that phraseology, so to speak, some of them, long ago. Of course, I believe that what military security services are dealing with is very important, that it is vital for this country, but I don't think as Mr. Stojanovic or Mr. Veličkovic, that this is the only foundation of this country. The Liberal Democratic Party, in particular, cannot agree with that view that Mr Stojanovic made several times. Respecting his experience, among other things, and at the head of some of these services, what should be the direction of future work of these services, especially very rigid, or should I say conservative views of the role of the security service in industrial espionage, etc. Mr. Stojanovic, this country, I think your political party has decided, at least for the last few years and even verbally agreed, that its direction towards future development should be to build an open, democratic, pluralistic society. A country that is integrated, a country that does not see exactly in all its neighbours or environments always and only enemies, but sometimes partners and allies. A country that builds an open, market economy in which these concepts of organised industrial and economic espionage, which you're talking about, simply can't function anymore, and especially when they exist on a certain scale, should not be the subject of a parliamentary debate or open political push of some political parties, in this case, and the matter is even more dangerous, the biggest parties of the ruling majority. Therefore, I think that at this stage of the debate, the minister owes some kind of reference to what you said, yet you come from the same political party and I worry, if you as SNS intend, or have any kind of ambition to further amend the legislation in this area, going in the direction that you have several times and very openly announced in your address to this Parliament. As far as the other proposals for decisions that are on the agenda today, I repeat again, Mr Ostojić seems to me rather exhaustively referring to some of the reasons. The Liberal Democratic Party will support proposals on the agenda. In particular, the proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other forces in multinational operations in 2013. Of course, it's a good thing this year we're taking that decision at the very beginning of the year, even though there were other reasons in the last year that put us in a position to discuss it only at the end of the year. I must say that the reasons why LDP supports this way of engagement of our military and other forces does not lick in what he pointed out at one point seem to me, Mr Predrag Markovic, arguing that political parties today in this House, in this debate, need to support such a decision repeatedly and openly because they know it is popular, that most citizens want it. I think our reasons are extremely rational. Some of these reasons why we support such engagement and for which we have always done so in the previous six years as far as LDP is a parliamentary party, are also contained in the reasoning of these decisions. We deeply believe that this improves the legal and political position of the Republic of Serbia in international relations, that different types of alliances in these operations are always difficult not only for our country, but also for countries that are our partners in this, the most difficult for those countries that are in different ways at risk, which is why multinational peace and other operations in their area, contributions and security and the very Republic of Serbia and its citizens are engaged. Of course, the LDP as always wants to insist on one more question. So, all of these reasons that you spoke to Mr. Vukic about asking for the support of this parliament for decisions that are on the agenda today, but they also stand for another kind of political decision that we think would be good to make in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, which is a decision to start Serbia's accession to the NATO alliance. I repeat again, this is neither a question of love for NATO nor NATO members, it is not an emotional issue, it is an extremely rational issue. Unlike the vast majority of other countries that may at some point have put this issue before them, it is much more vital for us, because it is not just some distant future and defence of the security and interest of the country in that future. NATO membership is vital to the interest of the Republic of Serbia at the moment. We talked about it a few dozen times. It is hard for me to imagine that someone who is politically, rationally acting in this moment does not see how important it would be for Serbia, for its economic, political, security, whatever interests you want, how important it would be for our citizens living in Kosovo, for members of our people living in Kosovo, for Serbia to be much more closely tied into the NATO system. Let me say it one more time, we talked about it a few times. Minister Vukic, perhaps he will not be able or often be able to try directly with the US Secretary of Defence, politically to act on a longer, more active, more numerous presence of NATO members or US forces in Kosovo. We need an institutional mechanism, an institutional link with NATO to make sure that as long as it takes, these troops will, among other things, facilitate or ensure the survival and interest of the Serb people in Kosovo. I am no supporter of geo-political theories, but NATO membership is at this moment or in the near future, the only way that Serbia is permanently protecting itself from the different threats that exist, from the different processes that exist. The situation in Kosovo is extremely volatile, the situation in Macedonia is extremely volatile. I haven't forgotten one detail of that debate a few months ago about a similar decision like this, when it came to being, so she stopped talking about what would happen to the announcements that Kosovo's army would be formed? It is directly decided by NATO and will decide in the near future no matter what kind of epilogue the Kosovo talks will be. We must have a direct way, to participate in that decision and in all similar decisions in the future. You, Mr. Vukic, have decided that, as a reason or one of the reasons why you refuse to discuss this issue, state the fact that Serbia, that its National Assembly has declared military neutrality in one of its documents several years ago. The document is called – Resolution of the National Assembly to protect sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. It was brought on 26 December 2007. Except for one sentence of military neutrality, it contains a dozen other points of view. All these views or vast majority of these other political views, obligations that the National Assembly has put before the government and other state authorities, we have, meanwhile, abandoned. Of course, the LDP from the beginning felt that this resolution should not look like this. You, your party, the vast majority of other parties in this House felt differently. In the meantime, I don't get into the reasons why it is, you decide to change some of your attitudes. I don't understand why you insist only on that one provision, arguing that it cannot be detached? This is usually one of a dozen resolutions and declarations on Kosovo, which have been made. This last one has left many points of view in this 2007 resolution. Let me remind you of some provisions that, fortunately, are abandoned in the meantime, and we would like to at least start talking about whether it would be better for Serbia to leave this issue of military neutrality. It is said that in particular, diplomatically and all other relations with countries that eventually recognise Kosovo's independence will be reviewed. The past government, and first of all Vuk Jeremic, has begun to work or to lead the demented process. Fortunately, in time, we gave up, so the same resolution says: The National Assembly asks the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to use all legal means in front of relevant international and national courts to protect Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. And we tried that, also under the past power, with the support of those who today make up power and disastrously lost in the process before the International Court of Justice, which led us to an almost unsustainable position in the new negotiations on Kosovo. That is why, Mr. Vukic, I think it is perfectly legitimate to open the discussion and the military neutrality proposed by this resolution and to start talking about this issue as part of the difficult, important, big state decisions you've been announcing for months. You and I know that the issue of Serbia's NATO membership will be opened at that time. I just don't want us to waste too much time again and perhaps, in the meantime, to our people, to the Serbs in Kosovo, to everyone living in the environment, make the situation difficult. For those of us who have decided to deal with politics, excuses, excuses that would rest on the fact that there is a difficult legacy, that our people's emotions are negative towards NATO, they must not be an excuse. If that led us, then there was no change and there was nothing we could do in our political life or political work. Then no policy, no elections, no governments, no parliaments would be necessary, no reforms would be necessary and it would be enough to make Ipsos once a year or twice a year and publish a public opinion survey and that what most citizens say, without serious debate on these issues, would be implemented in laws. It does not seem such a serious policy and can not be led by a serious state with a call or by a constant return to such starting grounds. In part, I agree with the explanation given by the DSS. They used the term, I think Mr Samardzic is "the nail and the meat", when it comes to EU forces and NATO forces. That's a good and picturesque term. Of course, our conclusions are the opposite. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that we should perhaps not participate in these missions because they have too much connection and are in some way overlapping with NATO missions. The Liberal Democratic Party feels quite the opposite, that there is no reason not to go any further and to start our process of NATO integration. I agree with one more thing. It is true that the citizens of Austria made an important decision in the referendum a few weeks ago. I think she's terribly important to us. It shows that the concept of military neutrality, as it is imagined here and how it is implemented, is absolutely unsustainable, because building, preserving, strengthening Serbia's military neutrality would mean a whole series of other changes. The army should be organised differently. The question is, could we just have the professional army we have right now? It is true that for seven or eight years Serbia has been going through Euro-Atlantic integration, therefore, NATO integration, that the process has been artificially interrupted by this resolution that I was talking about, and that everything around it is the same. That is why our documents in this area, as well as the manner of the military organisation, do not match the state or ambition set, so that the Republic of Serbia remains permanent or at least for a very long period of time, military neutral. The citizens of Austria are ready to pay the price and participate in the preservation of their country's military neutrality. That is why they decided at the referendum to maintain their military commitment. It's a perfectly rational decision. This is not the case with us, and that is why those who are leading the government right now must say they think and where they think they are taking Serbia to the future. At the same time, a popular and socially accepted stance on military neutrality or on NATO failure and at the same time supporting the public's majority commitment, there is no doubt that the mandatory military service should not be reintroduced. I don't think it's ever fully explained to our citizens what practical life really means for them to implement the concept of military neutrality until the end of the day, in every sense. Mr Ostojic spoke about some economic, developmental, investment advantages from the decision to join NATO. I think these reasons, other than those he talked about, are even more directly and more important in political, security, at the level of our security in the region where we are and everything that awaits us in the future. Just for the end, there was a lot of tension in this debate, as well as stories about the traditions of the Army. I would like to call on another tradition, I suppose that tradition of the Army is not abandoned, even when it comes to professional members of the Army and I want to assure you that we will still win this trophy for our club in a few hours, no matter what the one day delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11843	Thank you. The word is Mr. Veličkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11844	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm sorry, there may have been a misunderstanding, but I don't want anyone to interpret me. If there's anything I need, I'll explain it myself. I have specifically advocated increasing authority in certain situations, and it is in exceptional situations when it comes to internal international terrorism. So, in situations where there is a risk of major material damage or more human life beings being threatened. By interpreting this, I get the impression that someone is more afraid of the greater powers of the VBA director than of the international terrorists, afraid that maybe the VBA director will not exceed the powers, regardless of exactly when he can use it, when he can act on whom the report is submitted and what the report contains. The director of VBA didn't come here like that. It must have passed a lot of moral filters, working, professional and all other filters to reach the director of the VBA. By the time he's here, we really need to show him the trust we owe him. Therefore, I will always advocate greater powers in cases where the time for obtaining approval is shorter than the time of a particular person's stay, when the data is available that the adverse consequences of broader proportions can occur during that time, because imagine what it would be like to... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... One of your colleagues mentioned it, which would be to counterintelligencely protect the President of the Republic, you have information about it, and you can't take any action. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11845	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11846	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues, is pleased to talk today about the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013, but I will talk about this as I did last time, from that gender aspect. Before that, I would like to remind all of us that Parliament is the most important instrument of democratic civilian control and surveillance of the security sector, that in the last 20 years there have been new security movements at international level, that security from the predominantly military sphere, has been extended to other areas, primarily economic, energy, social, environmental security, including the security of both society and each individual. By globalisation, by spreading democracy in the integration processes in the area of security and increasingly intensive co-operation between countries, from economic to cultural, the risks of direct conflict between countries are reduced. What special attention should certainly be paid to is asymmetric threats that certainly do not bypass our country. And our country is also faced with significant challenges and has also not lost any traditional, new challenges, and no threat risks. The Republic of Serbia, like other countries in the region, is faced with various forms of crime, terrorism, corruption, illegal drug trafficking, human trafficking, financial and high-tech crime. I think the question we're very interested in is migration. The trend of increased use of information and communication technologies has been followed by a constant increase in the risk of high-tech crime and the threat of information and telecommunications systems. The Republic of Serbia is defined in the long term as contributing to common democratic values and strengthening regional and global security and is just participating in missions to strengthen global security. Democratic and civilian control of Serbia's military and other defence sides and the transparency of defence affairs are the basis for the development of a modern defence system. When we talk about the national security system, I would say that in a broader sense it is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the National Security Council, the Government, courts and prosecutors. In a narrow sense, the defence system consists of the forces of the MUP, the security-intelligence system, the formed organs, the coordination bodies for individual networks. Why this introduction? Because the security-intelligence system is made up of BIA, VOA and VBA, and it's about amendments and additions to the law that regulates this matter today. I don't think there's anything too controversial here if we talk about something called compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, when we talk about the respect of the institutions, when we talk about the direct implementation of the jurisdiction of a branch of government through executive power, and compared to the control of the legislative branch of government. The enforcement of the highest standards of judicial protection, human rights and the freedom of citizens when they apply freedom, when applying that procedure and measure, is something to be respected. I don't think there's anything questionable about me personally or about my MP group when it comes to amendments and additions to laws that we'll definitely support. What I would like to pay particular attention to is participation in multinational operations that gain experience in multinational operations and commands. The country's reputation is increasing, it has been mentioned several times today, and what I said last time we talked about the 2012 plan, Serbia, which was a security importer until recently, is becoming an exporter of security in these operations. By participating in missions, we prove that we are a worthy candidate for membership in terms of global or common defence from security policy. That Serbia's Army is a credible security factor in the world, the record of women's participation in multinational operations is something I praised last time and what I will certainly do today, because I am really proud that Serbia belongs to the first 20 countries to adopt the National Action Plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325 for the period 2010 to 2015. Of course I'm proud when this ministry is still working on its implementation. I would point out that four women are currently engaged in Lebanon and Cyprus and two women in the Congo. Currently, 10 women out of 110 who are currently engaged. I would stress that in the previous period of 462 mandates, as we say, with different rotations, women engaged 47 times, that several of them were hired two, three times on one or even more missions. I also want to commend the Centre of Multinational Operations, which is open to all candidates who meet the conditions. As part of the preparation at the Centre of Multi-national Operations, gender-sensitivity content is studied, and in 2012 there was training for birth counselors. Speaking of 2012, I would like to point out that for the first time in March 2012, women are engaged in military duties in peacekeeping missions. Also in 2012 is the first time a unit has been engaged in Cyprus and Lebanon. It was a footpath. What I want to point out is that Serbia's military has about eight percent of women in operating systems. When we look at 10 women out of 110 who are currently engaged, that percentage matches. What creates an obstacle is also general conditions for participation primarily related to the years someone spent in the profession, or in the military service. Of course, what affects us all is prejudice and traditional attitudes, because missions last six months or 12 months. Participants have the opportunity to meet with their family during that period, but that is something that for women is one of the obstacles. I think it should be pointed out once again that participation in peacekeeping missions is something that creates a great deal of interest among members of the military. We have once reached the interest of 10 members who are interested in one place. I think that's what gives the good quality of the members who represent us, or participate in peace operations. I would also call these participants our ambassadors, because they directly influence changes in the image of Serbia, directly improve Serbia's bilateral relations with another country and can directly learn the culture of other peoples and our culture of play in the best possible way. What I would also like to point out is that the UN Secretary-General's special representative is also responsible for promoting gender equality throughout the mission from the beginning to the end of each mission, that the UN Department for Peace Operations has in its composition experts on gender. Their role is to promote, provide, support and monitor the application of provisions relating to gender equality in multinational UN operations through so-called, I will now use a free translation, and if I offend someone, I apologize, these are so-called birth units or "gender units" on the ground. The organisational structure of each mission is defined in particular where it will be located. A birth certificate. I know this doesn't match the wording used by the military for progeny, but I simply don't have another expression in Serbian "Gender Unit" or so on. The birth unit is actually an office where a couple of people, two to five work, depending on the size of a mission which is concerned that the birth perspective is represented in all policies, programmes and activities carried out in the mission. She's also in charge of gender training. So-called As an extended arm, there are persons for gender equality, i.e. the "Gender Focal Point" which is located and who are responsible for training on gender equality being realized in each unit under the same command. I'd point out, and you can correct me if I don't have good information, that even our participants in missions were at one point a person for equality. The materials for that training are obtained from these birth equality units. Also, when implementing various activities or drawing up programs that are implemented in the mission, it shall be determined whether they are sufficiently susceptible programmes. For example, refugee acceptance programs themselves have also been analysed. People who work at the Gender Unit are mostly human rights experts and these are international civilians employed by the UN. As a state, we've taken significant steps in this field. I would point out that at the Centre for Multinational Operations, materials for training proposed by the UN are used by the country's distributors. I say I suggest, because if I understand this matter correctly, every country has its sole national responsibility for how it will prepare its people. We use their materials and in the mentioned materials a complete chapter deals with training on gender equality and problems of gender-based violence in post-conflict environments. In this way, provisions provided for in UN Security Council Resolution 1325 are monitored in the UN. In this way, the implementation of Resolution 1325 is monitored in Serbia. This is how implementation of Resolution 1325 is monitored through the participation of our members in peace operations. I am particularly pleased with the news that the minister pointed out today, that in the next year we will also have the wife of the general. I think that's very important when we talk about the perspective of gender equality in the Serbian Army. I would point out once again that there is no reason not to support these laws, especially from my personal point of view, there is no reason not to support when someone in such a firm way implements a policy of gender equality, or human rights policy in the defence system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11847	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11848	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, much has been said in the debate so far. Looking at the position of all parliamentary groups in the republic's parliament that have so far had the opportunity to speak, and I think that all representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups have had the opportunity to express their position on the draft decisions we are talking about today, in view of the legislative proposal to amend and supplement the legislation we are talking about today, it is evident that the proposed decisions and the draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law will have huge support in the republican parliament in the voting day. It's very important at this point. Repeating what Mr Dujevic, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary club, has already said, the SPS MP club will support the proposed decision and draft law amending and supplementing the Law on VBA and VoA in the day to vote. What I want to say at the very beginning is that the proposed decisions that we are talking about today can make very clear once again the intensity or commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make decisions, acts, legislative proposals that are of paramount importance and importance for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, to be delivered in a timely manner in the assembly procedure. So after a long period of time on the draft budget law, we did not discuss, debate and did not adopt it on 30 or 31 December. The decisions we are talking about today were timely in the congregation procedure in early 2013, already in January 2013. We believe that this is extremely positive and that this should be a practice of the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the next period of time. What is the point when it comes to the proposed decisions we're talking about today? The participation of professional members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations continues in 2013. This is very important and it has the support of the SPS Parliament Club. Participation is being improved, and on the other hand it raises to one higher level of concern for police, an army that participates in multinational operations from Serbia, which is extremely significant. More specifically, the Republika Srpska Army will participate in nine UN and EU missions in 2013 and the MUP in four. An engagement of up to 475 members of the Serbian Army and 15 members of the MUP was scheduled. I would agree with what is stated in the explanation of these two decisions. It is true that Serbia's participation stems from Serbia's commitment as members of the UN and other international organisations, but it is clear that this is how we as a state show that we want to participate actively in the preservation of peace and stability in the world. It also shows Serbia's clear commitment to address any problems peacefully, which is also important. What I also want to say is that Serbia should and must build good relations with all countries in the world, bearing in mind the interest of Serbian citizens. These decisions raise the country's reputation in the world and contribute to strengthening Serbia's foreign policy capacity. If we bear in mind the fact that Mr. Vucic said that members of the defence system during the past period have performed professionally with the highest grades and the UN, then he fully agrees with his colleague that we can safely say that the members of the Serbian Army, members of the MUP who participate in multinational operations, are the real ones and perhaps the best ambassadors Serbia currently has. On the other hand, participation in multinational operations is also useful for modernising the military through the security of co-operation with the armed forces of other countries. So, by accepting these decisions, Serbia will definitely be integrated into an extremely important area of activity, but what is more important, as an equal partner with all other EU and UN member states. As for the draft law amending the Law on VBA and VoA, the main reason for the proposed changes and additions is the Constitutional Court decision that made it difficult and slowed the work of the VBA on security, counterintelligence protection and the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence. The proposed amendments and additions are in line with the Constitutional Court's decision and I think that this is how the legal framework for monitoring the communications carried out by security and intelligence services is defined and that the adoption of this bill will no longer be an unclear legal situation. The draft law contributes to strengthening civil control over the work of agencies, i.e. the proposed changes and complements one optimum, one balance. On the one hand, it should be possible for the services to do their job, and on the other hand human rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution should be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11849	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11850	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the generals, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to take a brief look at something that the DSS colleagues have been saying here and that is not true. They said that only today in the mandate of this government is ammunition produced by our dedicated industry by two standards – NATO and Russian standards. This is not true because of the simple fact that in the previous three years, exports of our dedicated industry amounted to about 250 million dollars. Most of it was exported primarily to the United States, then donated to Afghanistan and Iraq. Therefore, both these standards, both Russian and NATO standards, have long been used in Serbia. When we talk about challenging the process of professionalisation, which we also heard from DSS MPs, where Austria's instructions are an example of Austria, which in the referendum did not accept that the armed forces of this country were professionalised, I must say that, as far as I know, Austria and Greece are the only EU member states in which there is no professional army, and it would be best to ask the boys and girls who apply in a huge number today for voluntary military service, precisely because they would become professional soldiers tomorrow. Is that good for them or isn't it? Personally, I think it is one of the most important decisions that have been made in the process of reforming our defence system and that we will see only in the future how much professional power we will benefit from. I agree with your position not to encourage the trend of cutting the military budget. However, it is not only this government's problem, it is a problem in most European countries. The leaders of European states debate this issue, and it will be a theme for sure in Serbia in the future. The question arises where to find these funds, but I think the new security challenges, risks and threats impose the need to think a lot about this issue in the future, because exactly the military budget of the retailer is the first one to be hit and I don't think that's good. As for the law amending and supplementing the Law on VBA and VOA, we will support this decision as DS. Since there is a lot of talk in the public about the possibility of alleged abuses and the restriction of human rights, of course it needs to be prevented, but on the other hand, it also needs to be done by the security services, without becoming involved in excessive demagogy, because it can be exaggerated, it should be possible for them to do their job. I think it is very important and needs to find a proper balance, and we as the National Assembly have a special role to play as an important system within the framework of civil and democratic control of the entire security sector. Speaking of multinational operations, the involvement of our military and police in the same, the DS supports these decisions. The number of our soldiers and police officers, in my deep confidence, is a measure of the courage of this society, but also of the honesty to defend the values that we stand for and, above all, I am thinking of the values that are depicted in our ambition to join the EU. It's not always popular to refer soldiers to peacekeeping missions. There's been a lot of talk here about being popular. I don't think so. You may ask that probably officials of states who are returning the coffins with soldiers from time to time to time to an accident. So it's always a tough decision. That's why I want to give credit here to our soldiers for the courage, because, and it's true that they get compensation for going to remote areas, but they primarily promote our country. Under the Serbian banner, they fight to maintain peace in some remote areas, when sometimes it seems even pointless, but in the best way they defend the interests of this country and the bright tradition that our army has. Many times there has been talk of the participation of both Yugoslav and Serbian soldiers in the past. I think that tradition is necessary and to continue. Our soldiers and police officers in these multinational operations absolutely raise our country's reputation and our presence with these missions certainly brings great benefits to both the state of Serbia and our citizens. It's hard to pull some direct link between participation in these operations and economic benefits, but there are very clear indicators. Minister Sutanovac spoke about how many countries in our region profited from participating in these peace missions. They may withdraw parallels between their engagement in these operations and significant economic benefits, increased intensity of foreign direct investment, and I think it is something that benefits them, especially when it comes to participation in some operations of a more significant scale, such as Afghanistan. I can agree with what my colleague said, that it is a shame that one of the previous governments, where Vojislav Kostunica was the prime minister, first decided to go into the operation and then withdrew. I think we'd get a lot more as a state. Sometimes it is much more useful to take demagogy than to take difficult moves and take unpopular measures. That is why it is important for us to maintain a continuity of state policy in this area. This is not a topic on which to collect points of daily-political nature. This is a strategic question. I think it is our obligation as the opposition, which we have led the Ministry of Defence in the previous two mandates, to recognize this long-term need, to maintain continuity and to support these decisions. I hope that in one of the following governments, we will still be leaders in this region, when it comes to engagements in multinational operations, not as we are today, and as we have followed others in the past. However, the fact that we are still increasing our presence today is good for the start, a positive shift. Minister Vukic mentioned that we received a call for Syria and Mali. Personally, I think it's a great recognition for our armed forces. This is one signal for us that Serbia is recognised as a reliable partner in the international community. It's very encouraging, as well as the fact that you mentioned that all sides recognize us as reliable partners, it's particularly encouraging. There was talk here about money. Of course, every spent dinar of our taxpayers needs to be carefully analysed for what is being spent, at a time of economic crisis, at a time of unemployment. However, I think the funds allocated to these operations are indeed symbolic in relation to the benefits that we can have as a society. I was talking about economic benefits, and I think we should talk more often about experiences, especially the neighbouring countries that participate in these multinational operations, how much they profited precisely because of the facts, and I was saying, that they took responsibility and burden, a great burden to maintain international peace. Why can we expect economic benefits? First of all, I think that Serbia is putting trust in its partners as an exporter of security, not as someone who has been seen as a country that creates problems. I disagree with the fact that we've created problems, but simply, the reality is that in many countries they see it that way. When it comes to neutrality, Serbia has documents that have defined military neutrality, but I have to remind those who in one demagogue manner refer to this topic, that exactly the countries that are neutral, such as Austria or Sweden, have more engagement in NATO missions, for example, than some NATO member states, because the issue of participation in these operations is an issue of value, as is the issue of participation in European Union missions, an absolutely valuable issue. Unlike DSS counterparts, with all due respect, who think Serbia should not participate in EU operations, we in the DS consider this necessary. We are candidates for EU membership, and the EU will certainly bring our citizens a better perspective, which is why certain obligations arise for us, such as participation in the common security and defence policy of the EU. If you see that on the coasts of Africa, let's say, what is the essence of this mission in Somalia – that ships sailing under the European flag are being hijacked, that EU citizens and even Europeans are being kidnapped, that ransom is being sought for their heads. Isn't it a valuable question that we, like Europeans, help our brothers Europeans to help and at least at a symbolic level, with a small number of members of the Serbian Army, help to solve these problems and show that we are solid? Of course, it should be mentioned that in these missions, professionals leave first and foremost, that they do so on a voluntary basis. In that sense, we should give these people a confession. The Serbian Army's professionalisation process, I will repeat, is one of the most important moves in reforming the defence system in the years behind us. The professionalisation of the Serbian Army is a fundamental assumption of increased participation in these operations and an early assumption of decision-making and such. I'll remind you of the year 2008, when DS led the Ministry of Defense, she took over one situation, that we only had 16 soldiers on peacekeeping missions. Today we have them, with one determined DS policy, with a clear commitment to this idea as much as 110, and we expect them now in the term of this government, and here I am talking about this continuity that I think is very good, we're going to have close to 300, I mean 289 soldiers and we welcome it. I am personally advocating the greater involvement of our army and police in these operations. I think it's very good for our country. I think it's important that we increase our presence, but I think we must and can do more on this plan. Since the security environment is changing, it is quite certain that in the future we may have to adapt our strategic documents, our national security strategy, the defence strategy, these changed circumstances, new needs. It may not be the time for today and for this debate, but it's something we have to think about, and these decisions are one good step in that direction. I disagree with the comments of some colleagues here, that this is a question they always vote for, of course. That's not true. As DS, we have faced the situation, in the past few years, that the opposition has quite reasonable arguments, always voted against sending the military and police to peacekeeping missions, barely providing for a half-dozen majority. The fact is that today we have a different situation and yet the vast majority of MPs will support these decisions, and this says that we have all progressed together, which I personally consider to be one of the successes and the DS that I belong to. In this sense, we will vote for these decisions, and indeed I call, and in my personal name, the other MPs to do so, not only when they are in power, but to be principled and always do so, because it is of interest to our country, and not of interest to a particular party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11851	The word is Mr. Palalic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11852	Since my esteemed colleague, Samophalov, mentioned me, I will look back at the parts of my discussion. I just want to say that the part I mentioned was a statement by Minister Vukic about the need for co-operation with both the NATO Pact and the Russian Federation. I said we support it because in the previous period it wasn't the case. Had it not been the case, it also says that relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation in the area of security were practically dead in the previous four years. Now, within a very short time, we have had two meetings with the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of security and the announcement of a meeting with the defence minister in less than a year. This kind of balance is something we needed, and we think it's the thing that confirms the country's commitment to military neutrality. Not only co-operation with one military alliance, within the Partnership for Peace, but cooperation with other countries with which we can achieve the strengthening of our military industry and our armies. As for the referendum in Austria, I cited it as an example of the courage of a government to ask its citizens – what does it think of a large topic such as military neutrality and confirmation of its military neutrality? Unlike the government of Austria, the previous government had no courage. For example, in Austria, it proved that the people disagreed with their government and the government respected the decision. All the research shows that the people do not want Serbia to be part of NATO's pact. At the end of the line, the people are not even asked if they want full military professionalization. Maybe he does, but it took courage to go to the referendum and ask the people about it. It's not demagogy, it's democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11853	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11854	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, respected representatives of the Army of Serbia and the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in my discussion, I do not want to look too much at the parts that have been said so far, but I will not, as some MPs, read the military encyclopedia, in a way that would please the minister, because I do not think it is necessary. I believe that the position and opposition agree on certain issues, which is the fact that the participation of the Serbian Army in international military missions is good for Serbia, good for its citizens, thus expanding our modest influence in the world and thus getting the opportunity to appear in that part of the world with our own goods, military equipment, to spread political aspects, communication. After all, the Republic of Serbia has tradition in it through the former state, but I would say this military activity is not since yesterday. After all, we are in a very specific situation. The Republic of Serbia, you will correct me if I do not speak correctly, if I am not telling the truth to the end, is one of the few countries in the world that in its territory, territory has foreign military forces, while at the same time sending its military missions to other countries of the world. You know that in the KIM area, forces and international military missions and NATO forces are countries, but at the same time we have missions in several countries, we increase the number of soldiers and we expand the structure of these military forces. Until recently, unfortunately, in the 1990s, UN troops were on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, various countries. In a less or more successful way, they protected citizens of Serbian nationality. I'd say that's not what they've been able to do in certain areas. Unfortunately, today on the agenda, we should have a declaration about the situation of refugees, about the situation of people who, despite the participation of international military missions in these areas, had to leave their homes. Some strange coincidence is that today we have removed this resolution from the agenda, that we did not have the courage to make one quality resolution that would be the fruit of co-operation of all parliamentary groups, one consensus as we have today on the participation of Serbian forces in international multinational forces, and for the first time in the EU countries' forces. I think it's a bad message, that we haven't faced the fact that in an adequate way we reach an agreement and about solving refugee issues that haven't yet found a roof over our heads. I will agree with my colleague, Samofalov, that it was not easy to make a decision in the previous period to send military missions to other countries, especially the first military missions. Indeed, as DS, we had a difficult task to do. We have often taken unpopular steps that have not always been to gain political benefit. On the contrary, we had bold steps. We are pleased that the new government, or new minister, supports this policy led by the DS. On the other hand, I have a certain dose of anxiety – whether the existing government, given the tasks that the minister performs on other plans, will continue that policy at full capacity, because it is a serious job. I think Mr. Sutanovac has devoted himself to this work with all his being, and in this sense we expect the new ministry to continue this business because this is a mechanism that cannot stop. This is a mechanism which, I might say, has oiled its gears, which can move in a certain period and by force, or principles established in the previous ministry. But I think that this job needs to continue at full capacity so that in a year or two days, we wouldn't have a situation for individual achievements to collapse. It is certainly important to point out that the previous mandate also meant an unpopular measure for the state of Serbia beyond its tradition, but in line with modern achievements, I would say, European countries and modern armies. It's a professionalization of the Republic of Serbia Army. Professionalisation was one step that led to the fact that military service is only served by persons who voluntarily wanted it, and it also gives one opportunity and experience of the Republic of Serbia's Army to respond to all the challenges that lie ahead of it. Finally, given the fact that my predecessors from the DS have said that these laws that are on the agenda are laws that DS will support, because they are part of the aspirations that are also part of the drive of DS, which is to introduce a greater order in military intelligence services, or a higher level of control, with a single dose of fear that in certain domains this could have negative consequences if they didn't have a professional army and a professional judiciary and other independent institutions, when it comes to civilian control of military services. Of course, this is not the topic of today's debate, but that a discussion should also be opened on how to control the service at the MUP, the BIA and other services dealing with similar activities dealing with military intelligence, which is listening. It is a subject that certainly deserves attention, especially since in the previous period we have had several very unwanted situations when we have been listening, which is authorized, which is unauthorized, and now we are dealing with the consequences of these perhaps until the end of undefined legal procedures. Finally, let me say once again that DS will support these laws and that in the voting day there will be a "yes", as said in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11855	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11856	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this topic about the participation of our defence forces in multinational operations is certainly extremely important and difficult, so that anyone in this country cannot be left indifferent, primarily because of some of our memories, ancient and recent, and the feelings that come from these memories. The other thing is that this subject is very little media attention and that can lead to many concerns among citizens, so I hope that this debate and the answers to many questions in many ways will help people to understand this question quite differently. When I talked about how these feelings were, we return to a past when our armed forces in blue helmets in the old JNA were scattered around the world and there kind of spread the country's reputation and contributed to peace and stability and were appreciated and respected and trained and units that were examples in the world. Unfortunately, these same blue helmets were quite powerless and inert when this country parted. But it's still some distant past. What are some recent feelings are thinking that a decision to protect people's safety, a fundamental role in multinational operations, is a decision to use some means in 1999 that will, under the pretext of human protection, lead to people's safety being compromised. It's a NATO pact operation on our country and the bombing of this country that failed the exam, where it happened, which was found by the commission, legitimate, but certainly not legal. This international law has suffered a severe defeat, and we hope that the future will show that all new operations that are in this regard will be far more just and fairer. Our units will participate in peace operations. Multi-national operations aren't just peaceful. Multi-national operations are also humanitarian, anti-terrorism operations. It's also a defense operation to prevent conflict. We're taking part in most of the peace operations here, and that's very good. These are operations arising from civil wars, the greatest evil that can happen. Wars are fought for territories. There are winners and winners. There is no winner in the civil wars. They've all been defeated and they've all been defeated. They're simply led to the people, and they're led against the people. You don't know how they start, or where they're going, or where they're going. That's why our role there has a pronounced humanitarian character. I sincerely hope that our army, both dressed and responsible, and how it becomes more and more appreciated in the world, will know that it responds to these very serious demands. What happens is that we increase the contingent to 475 people of the military and 15 members of the MUP is proof of the world's trust and recognition for us, for this policy, for an obvious positive policy towards its responsibility for participation in such operations. What matters is that we've reached a formal infantry unit. This is important because we will be able to be ourselves here, because lower formations mean joint participation with other forces, where we could get logistics, resulting in new problems, which are common training, equipment matching procedures and language knowledge. What we've had so far, it's on an observational level. These are medical teams that have contributed to our work to the position of this recognition to increase the total number of our members in multinational operations. They found it much easier, because VMA has an extraordinary space for training and training these people, and we can say that our medical teams, who went and now they're there, along with all the world's teams, and we can give them maximum recognition. But hopefully, new training centres and adapting to some of the requirements required by these multinational operations will also contribute to other formations being at the level of these teams. What's important in the end is to say what some of our interests are. There was talk of an economic aspect. The fact is, we're devoting significant assets, but the fact is that 40% is coming back to the UN. On the other hand, this is all about pay, supporting our people for training and equipment. There's another way to make money and how the state can get there, which is that the UN pays to use some of our equipment, our means of transport. Not all assets are used. All one-tenth will be in operation and nine-tenths will be parked, and for each vehicle, the UN will give up to 100 euros a day for that use. It is another way to materially mitigate what is sought. It's the least important. It is more important that we return it through our participation and gain a legal, political status, strengthen our positions, create some new content in foreign policy and contribute to the country's status as it deserves in the world. Therefore, SNS and our parliamentary club will vote in favour of these proposals. First of all, we will vote as human people with a desire to contribute to the protection of every child and every man in those places where evil is happening today, and we will also vote as responsible people because we know what our international obligations are, we know that we respect and appreciate and we know that such a relationship can contribute to our country's overall status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11857	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11858	Madam Chairman, Mr. Secretary of Defense, Mr. Vukic, gentlemen of the officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to speak of two points today. I'd like to talk about the state of our peacekeeping troops who will participate in peace missions. Some say we don't need our army to go to other countries and other conflict areas at the moment when a foreign army is staying with us. I think it is good for Serbia to strengthen its reputation in the world and its security capabilities by sending our soldiers and police officers on peacekeeping missions. For all opponents, the idea will remind me that the gold medal for the courage "Milos Obilic" was awarded to police officer Biljana Lazarevic, who was a member of Serbia's first contingent in the UN peacekeeping mission in Liberia. She was the commander of the Serbian police in the UN peacekeeping mission in Haiti. I'll read what that brave girl said when she became the first woman to be decorated in the recent history of this high medal for the courage of Milos Obilić. "I personally would not point out that I am the only woman, because this is a reward for human, humanity and professionalism. I'd love to go back on some peace mission, but the M.O.P. is now only participating in two missions, in Liberia and Haiti, and I was in both. Our soldiers and officers are at the level of those we consider to be the best. "She said that to Biljana. I am absolutely convinced that the Serbian Army will have such brave individuals who will justify participation in peacekeeping missions, that they will have more decorated soldiers and police officers who will return alive and healthy from these peace missions and who will best be ambassadors of Serbia and present all that Serbia can when it comes to our security potentials. For you, Mr. Wolfie, one recommendation. Now it's Statehood Day. I would like you to call on Statehood Day all those surviving commanders of peacekeeping missions, and I will only remind that Serbia had a commander, such as Slavko Jovic, in a war between Iraq and Iran. It would be good to think of these people that way. We had a wonderful exhibition at the Military Museum during Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, as defence minister, where we had a retrospective where all JNA and then the Serbian Army participated in peacekeeping missions. It would be nice to think of those people who at a time when war conflicts in some parts of the world had the courage to represent Serbia and our army in the best possible way. It would be good to invite them, to show them respect, of course, to all those who are with us. Unfortunately, biology does its part, not everyone is with us, but some are still alive, and it would be nice to see them in this solemn hall on Statehood Day. I'd like to speak briefly about the law on VBA and Voa. We are witnessing very unkind things these days when it comes to some abuses of certain security services, information collected. At the beginning of the term of office of this government, we faced one very unpleasant affair of listening, which has not yet been revealed until the end and we are waiting to see who were all the actors of these unkind events, but what do I want to notice? Serbia's military, as an institution of the highest confidence, which enjoys the highest trust along with the SPC, is not being run anywhere in these affairs. The Army's reputation has been preserved. Not only did the police and the BIA participate in the defence and security of the country's constitutional arrangement. There must have been members of the Army, but good reforms carried out during the past period with the preservation of the Serbian Army's reputation. In preventing all abuses, no officer, no information the military had was used for any affairs, scandals. We haven't had a chance to read any secret files in the tabloids and party newspapers. We haven't had a chance to see any scandal created in VBA or VOA. It should be a pride to you officers who run these institutions. This means that such laws are only a new step to prevent such abuses, but this means that in the previous period in the military, reforms have been done well and implemented properly. Full support to you, as minister, and I am pleased to see you more and more as defence minister, and less as Deputy Prime Minister, regardless of the efforts you put into other segments you are in charge of, because the Serbian Army is an institution of the highest confidence of citizens. I am absolutely convinced that they will continue to strengthen their capacities. I'm sorry the Army budget is the way it is. I'm sorry to hear about all those honorary officers we mention today as participants in peace operations, who may not have solved the housing issue today, have no existential living conditions. I feel sorry for all those colonels, generals, but also for those lower officers and soldiers who and what a contribution they have made to strengthening Serbia's reputation in the world, and today they may be forgotten and hard to live. As I speak today in parliament, they remember those days when the Serbian Army, JNA, represented a prominent army throughout the world. That's why it's good for our soldiers to participate in these peace missions. It's much better for our army to go to other people's crisis areas than for other people's army to come to these crisis areas and never to witness such crises again where it takes someone from the world to calm us down, discipline us, to come here. It is better that Serbia strengthens its security capacities. I will especially point out that DS will vote in favour of these laws, because it is necessary to give recognition to both the VBA and the VOA of everything they have done, and especially in this turbulent time that they have not momentarily, with no document, appeared as actors of affairs and scandals. That might need someone from the opposition to notice, to say that's good. Maybe that's better for us from the opposition, not you from the government. Serbia has enough problems to keep them warm. I thank you, and I'd like to see the officers, the commanders of the peace missions. I believe you'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11859	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11860	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, unlike my previous colleague, Mr. Vukic I am happy to see both as Deputy Prime Minister and as Minister, so I don't know why you separated that kind of function. I just think that the citizens are making an extraordinary assessment of him both as Deputy Prime Minister and as Minister. It's up to you to assess, and it's up to the citizens to assess their opinion. I had no intention of speaking without a great cause, since everyone seems to have agreed that these are changes that are significant, which make this legal framework more constitutional, if I may say so. However, the post of chairman of the Security Control Committee is binding. In that sense, I was prepared to talk about this, although I am quite surprised by the number of participants in the debate, which is good, I think. It seems to me that we have almost a consensus, except for those constant tentative conditions from certain opposition parties of the arguments that if any of their amendments are adopted, then it can also be backed up by the law. If that's the key thing, then I'd understand that, if it's technical corrections, and since I've had insight into some amendments, they're technical corrections, I don't understand that. Well, a partial consensus seems to exist. As far as the Security Control Committee is concerned, today, as the Rules of Procedure order, we hold a session and most of the votes, in fact unanimously, decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a draft law on amendments to the Law on VBA and VOA. During his work and in co-operation in direct contact with the directors here, I thank them for their presence, familiar with the problems in the work of the VBA Security Control Committee, security and counterintelligence protection and the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. In fact, as we've heard from everyone who's dealt with this issue today, I'd just like to explain for a moment. So the Constitutional Court's decision is unequivocal and she's in line, I pulled that member out, that's Article 41(2). The Constitution, which is prescribed that a derogation from the integrity and secrecy of letters and other means of communication is possible only on the basis of the court's decision, and that it is only the court's jurisdiction, if necessary, to conduct a criminal procedure or to protect the security of the Republic of Serbia, in a certain way, in a manner provided for by law, to determine the derogation from the Constitution of guaranteed non-violence and secrecy to letters and other means of communication. I was deliberately quoting this, so we could simply know which member of the Constitution it is. At the same time, it seems to me that the minister mentioned and other participants, this balance between this obligation, which is prescribed by the Constitution and on the other hand the existence of a legitimate objective for the application of specific procedures and measures for secret data collection, which is primarily the protection of all aspects of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its defence system. The regulation of such procedures and measures is justified in every democratic society when the reason for the protection of national security is, of course, what everyone mentioned, which is respect for constitutional provisions and what we seem to have not mentioned enough, and this is the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is not accidentally mentioned, given that the security and security sector reform, particularly democratic surveillance and civilian control over this sector, is one of the items that is regularly mentioned in the European Commission's report, and we are expecting it soon and we should do a lot of things not to be assessed as a failure in this segment, but that, if we can, we can also lead to progress being assessed in this segment. That's why I'm not happy with the proposed changes and additions. But I am pleased that both the minister and everyone announced a new comprehensive law by the end of the year. Therefore, all amendments that are possible from the opposition and something that we can and in the debate to mention will probably be a good basis for making a new comprehensive and comprehensive law that will in a satisfactory way and as European standards prescribe, and I will also have to look back at what some opposition MPs have said, that there is no single codified system in the EU that would oblige Serbia, in this case, to reform security services. I will quote what the European Commission's representatives in Serbia say and why it is important, it is that, although the EU does not have solid legal assets in the area of security, they expect future members to respect certain principles, guidelines and recommendations, and these principles primarily relate to the control of the security sector, including parliamentary surveillance, data protection and the functioning of the security services, with respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law. I've quoted this because I really think that this government, on the way to getting a positive opinion, has an obligation to deal with this too. As a result, there is likely to be an amendment to the Committee that the parliamentary committee will also somehow be introduced into one of the members of this amendment law and additions to the Law on VBA and VOA. This is what will essentially improve or give a positive impulse to democratic surveillance and civilian control over security services. That is why the Committee has also proposed that the National Assembly accept the bill. We have indeed agreed today, I repeat, unanimously, that the proposed solutions are now in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, but also with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The solutions proposed in this law allow the VBA to continue to apply specific procedures and measures, as one of the most important instruments of security in the operational sense, especially if we have complexity in terms of modern security threats, and in Serbia, it seems to me, above all, that concerns corruption, organised crime, as well as potential threats to terrorism. When it comes to the application of these special procedures and measures, it should be careful because there is always a great danger of incurring basic human rights, but the legislative authority, in this case parliament, and the Supervisory Board must also take care of the security needs of the state and its citizens and that transparency imperative cannot be infinite and unlimited. That's why it seems to me that this text of the bill is quite balanced. We have been doing a little bit of comparative practice, which really shows that the degree of security authorities have, when it comes to the application of special procedures and measures in EU countries, but also in the region, is really different. I must say that we as a state, it seems to me, correct me, if I'm wrong, have chosen the most restrictive level of authority of military services, which means that at the same time we have defined ourselves as the highest possible degree of respect for human rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Other Freedoms. That is why I really believe that, as an MP and as chairman of the board, this law is of quality. I'm not saying we can't promote him in the future. Like I said, I expect it to be by the end of the year and some new bill, but I think we should adopt it. What I would add, it seems to me that it has not been mentioned, which is that this legal solution has been agreed and that it has been implemented certain suggestions that have been received from the MUP, BIA, the General Inspector of the Service, as well as other authorities of the state administration. That's that good balance, and that's why, I repeat again, I think we should adopt it. I would just briefly refer to some of the things that were said during this debate, and above all to one of the issues, it seems to me that my colleagues from the opposition parties, did parliament ever talk about this issue without using this topic for political purposes? I have to be very personal, which I rarely do when I do, but I will do it for the interests of the public and the citizens. So, as chairman of the Security Control Committee, a representative of the SNS, the president of my party is the Minister of Defence and Vice-President of the Government and believe that I have never received any instruction, any criticism or any kind of intervention or interference in the way that the board will work and function. I think it's amazing and I'm behind what I said. I think that this is how we show, in the best possible way, that it is possible to work in the spirit of parliamentaryism, that we, in the committee itself and through agreement with the opposition parties, work together and I really cannot say that anyone abuses from this government, from the resolution ministry, in any way, this topic. I'd just like a few more things from the bill itself, and we're talking about termological harmony. Terminological coherence has occurred in some segments, but unfortunately in some segments, I have personally noticed it and I have asked those who know better than I do, there is the introduction of some new concepts which have not, therefore, been a proposal for legal solutions and normatives and should be more widely explicit, or more widely explained. For example, industrial security is being talked about and industrial security is a brand-new syntagma, it does not exist in previous normative solutions and it seems to me that in this text of the future law it should be properly clarified, otherwise it is one of the things the EU also requires as one of the standards. Just one more thing I'd like to say. First of all, the Minister of Defence and the Vice-President of the Government, it is that this Committee has both legal powers and good will and intention to participate in the creation, initiation of legal acts together with the Government in the future and that we would like to be, in the future, an active part of the process. It seems to me that we have all agreed on this in the Committee, therefore, and the representatives of the opposition and the positions, we have discussed this with the directors of the services that are here, also present. It seems to me that this is the way in which, not only in a formal sense, we are going to really improve in the right way and, therefore, reform in the security sector and strengthen democratic surveillance, parliamentary surveillance above all, in this important area that is often mystified, which really should be one cornerstone of the rule of law and security. Given what they are today, I repeat, challenges in Serbia, above all corruption, crime and of course threats to terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11861	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. You're giving up. Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the list of MPs' groups. Before concluding a joint, principled, single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11862	Thank you. Today we have had a very comprehensive debate about, not only those draft laws that are on the agenda, but also about certain things that have not been found on the agenda, but deserve attention and clarification to the citizens, because I think that disabling Parliament, somewhere it may mean it is allowed, but this transmission is seen by citizens of Serbia and I just think that we need to be honest and that we are telling the truth. I'm going to move a little closer to history, since my esteemed DSS colleague encouraged me to do that. I will remind you, in 2000, in a campaign, the then DOS, in a campaign for the president of the then-Yugoslavia, representatives of the DOS, or leaders, signed a contract with a people who wrote that the new government would professionalise the then-Yugoslavian Army, which was later signed by the Serbian Army. The first signator of that contract was just now, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica. He never mentioned that there would be a referendum on professionalisation, such as it had never been before, given that the Serbian Army as well as most armies in the world was first professional, and then it became a stand, and as such, it entered into our tradition and became traditional. But times change and certainly the modern army, in fact, is a professional army. We also heard about the fact that in one EU country, the process of professionalisation failed in the referendum, in particular Austria. If you follow the defence and security system in Austria a little bit, you will understand that the issue of professionalisation was primarily about the question of the part of the Austrian army that serves the military. It is tens of thousands of young people who are practically on a daily basis employed in state institutions, and they save huge funds to the state of Austria, and therefore this process of professionalisation is not only successful in Austria where I say, there was intensity and desire. Otherwise, a small number of countries in Europe remain on the old recruiting system and those as such want to change it anyway. There was also talk here about Russian-Serbian relations, about how a major step has been made in our breakthrough on the international scene in the last six months. I must remind you, after many years in Serbia, the head of the Russian Army General Staff, Mr. General Maharov, was in office in the past government's term. That we tried and tried to develop better relationships than they were at the time, that unfortunately, relations in the field of defence did not follow political relations. But if it wasn't our fault, that we were making a really great contribution to it, and if you want, I guess at the next session of the Service Control Committee, we'll have the opportunity to ask our colleagues from VBA or VOA how and how our attempts to establish stronger relations with the Russian Federation in the field of defence have been treated. What I also want to point out is that an extremely large number of defence co-operation contracts have been signed during that period. That for the first time in history, the U.S. Vice-President was in office in the Ministry of Defence, that during that period, the defence minister was headed by a delegation received by China Vice-President Mr. Gingping, who is today the president of China. That after 25 years, the Department of Defense had a chance to be invited to the Pentagon. If I had led a delegation that was in the Pentagon, I say, after 25 years, after the defence minister, Mr. Branko Mamula was then. I am glad that this continued and that Mr. Vukic had the opportunity to stay in the Pentagon within a very short period of time. That at that time a large number of presidents and presidents were receiving our delegation. I would especially like to stress that during this period, Prime Minister Stoltenberg, who visited Serbia, had just held a press conference outside the VMA. During this period for the first time in Serbia's history, Serbia's defence minister, Brazil, was in Serbia. A large number of delegations from China, including the Minister and Vice-President of the Military Committee, who ranks as vice president at that level. So if we're really talking about bilateral relations and multilateral relations that we've been building for the past five years, we can say that an extremely big step has been made. Of course, participation in peacekeeping missions has contributed, but also great agility has been carried out by the international military co-operation administration and all those involved in the defence policy itself. That's what I'm trying to say, because there's a lot of things out here today that aren't facts and it's not true. It would be bad for us to accept the truths as a cliché and build a perspective on them in Serbia. Because I don't think this is the topic we need to pursue day-to-day politics on. Also, I stress one thing that is very important. Serbia's NATO accession has been mentioned very often here today. Serbia's accession to NATO and participation in peace operations is not an equation, it does not have to be and it is not as a rule. In particular, both Austria and Sweden and a large number of other countries that are not only not in NATO but are not even in the Partnership for Peace. Some are not even in Europe, taking part in UN-led operations conducted by NATO or pure NATO operations. So that the association of membership within the organisation does not necessarily have to be linked to participation in peacekeeping missions. Serbia must find a way to become important. To be important not only in this region, because this region itself is not big and not very important. Serbia needs to find a way to be important to those who are important. I think that, with the help of our armed forces, we can reach one step higher and say, become important to the international community. And I thank you, and on behalf of the DS, I say, we will support all three, let me say, legislative proposals and these two decisions, and we think that they are a step that continues exactly the policy that we have implemented over the past period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11863	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11864	I don't know what was the occasion for Mr. Sutanovac to come forward and pollinate with some of the views that DSS representatives have put out here, and it's so extensively expressing everything that the ministry has done during the previous period, that it's a series of actions, almost like some complex of collected works. That wasn't necessary. Because there wasn't a word here about something that would cause controversy because it's untrue and false, but we just have different views. We do not agree, therefore, on the concept in the strategy, and that is what we saw today. If, therefore, the previous government was mentioned, in this sense it was mentioned, and it is therefore nothing that should be ridiculed in this way that a series of false things have been made out as a fellow Sutanovac has now said. I think we didn't say anything false if we didn't agree with how the previous ministry ran the defense business, but we said our position about which is different and diametrically opposite of the one that's yours. Therefore, there are mixed levels and there is no need for such a type of reaction or some controversy. At the end of the line, regardless of what it was, the ministry certainly had a lot of contacts and various initiatives, and with other defence ministries and other armies and not only with NATO armies, it remains a strong impression, I don't think you can deny it either, that your strategy was turned to NATO, that you were leading one, how can I say, a policy of crawling towards NATO and that you normally led this half-secret policy, since you had data from public opinion research all the time, that in Serbia from research, between 70% and 75% of the electorate body was not for NATO membership. It was more or less familiar to everyone, so in a way and legitimately on your part to do one policy and turn the country toward one side. We can get along and discuss it. We think it's bad, it's catastrophic for the country, you think it's very good, but these are topics to discuss. However, the fact that you led a unilateral defence policy of turning towards a military alliance, which today is the only major military alliance in the world and for which we have a lot of criticism, not only because we were bombed in 1999, but because it is a military alliance that sows death around the world, simply, it is some of the strongest moments in our criticism. So I want to throw away this kind of lapidarian and general criticism of our views that they are false and false, because it's not about that, it's about different concepts. We have to get used to it, regardless of whether we lead the government or be in opposition, that here we have the same right to express our views and to compromise, if you have the arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11865	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sutanovac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11866	When I was talking about the truth, I was thinking about the story about professionalization in Austria and what your colleague Palalic was saying, which is not here right now. He said things that aren't true, don't be offended and angry, but that's just the way it is. Today, to accuse the former government or me of leading a policy that went to NATO administration, could be someone who may not have participated in Serbia joining the Partnership for Peace. So, the time in which you ran Serbia, that's when we entered the Partnership for Peace and we're still in those frameworks and we're still trying to find our place in those frameworks. I think it is quite enough framework for the functioning of both the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, but also for the Serbian states. What you should also know, and I think the public should know, that by last year we signed about 50 defence co-operation agreements from Indonesia via China, from Kuwait literally all countries, via Iraq, through Turkey, except Albania, to the UK. With all the countries we have tried and tried, I believe this will continue, to build good relations in the area of defence, and this is not focusing on multilateral relations within NATO, but rather on good relations and bilateral co-operation. Today, in the framework of co-operation, all countries that are in Serbia's environment, I say, except for Albania, which at one point wanted to blackmail Serbia, which we did not accept then, we signed those agreements. We had the courage to sign agreements with Croatia, and we think it's one big contribution to reconciliation in the region, and that's something that was welcomed here, in a way negatively, from that part of our society that didn't understand what we wanted. Today I see that we have a majority to understand and that's something that's very important. So it's not my idea to step up with you at the level of "said-said," whether something is true or not, but I'm only plowing with the part that your colleague Palalic brought out here and kind of disabling in public, because what he was saying is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11867	Thank you. The word is Mr. Samardzic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11868	You see, what you said, as some sort of controversy on the words of John Palalic, is not a defiance or any claim that would be convincingly showing that he was telling the truth. He said a referendum was held in Austria on a specific issue. He's been held up. If you wish to have sex with him, then say, "It has not been maintained." You didn't do it, you just added a few sentences of explanation around that context. So, I think you two were complementary. You have some need to flaunt about nothing, about topics that really aren't the source of some controversy. It is understood when the Partnership for Peace is a topic, facts from 2006 are known, and that is simply the measure that the then government has set for Serbia and NATO relations. She's official today. I am pleased that you also said today that this is a measure that is quite sufficient for you, but certainly, you have made many moves both on standardisation and on communication and on the strategy, etc., which went in one direction to NATO, some inescapableness faced by all the countries in this area that concluded the Stabilisation and Association negotiations and the Central Eastern European countries, which also concluded the same accession negotiations, but could not have done the job until they entered NATO. As supporters of European integration or Euro-Atlantic integration, it was quite clear to you that joining NATO is a condition for joining the European Union. These topics are "passes", to be clear. I'm just explaining what this is really about, so for that reason you've been doing a lot of work on that thing. These numerous bilateral agreements do not deny such a thing, nor confirm it, they are simple policies that one country, even if it wants to join NATO, must lead with other countries in the direction of co-operation in military matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11869	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does Minister Vukic want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11870	Thank you. At the end of today's debate, I want to thank all the MPs, both the MPs from the parties of power and the MPs from the opposition parties. I think that in another day we have shown responsibility, seriousness and that today the citizens of Serbia are satisfied with all their representatives, regardless of whether in some segments we have different or different opinions. What I think is very important, which I would like to point out, answers to certain questions and objections, above all, regarding the character of multinational operations involving members of the Serbian Army and related to the Monusco peace operation in the Democratic Republic of Congo. I want to say that there are currently eight members of the Serbian Army involved there. So far, 120 members have been hired, of which 27 women. What's most important and what I want to tell you is that our medical teams and our staff are in first place. These medical teams of ours take part, too much, in the extraction of airways. So, they have what Mr Blazic was talking about, their presence primarily has a humanitarian character. Of course, I also want to say that the work of soldiers who go into peace operations is not model work and that it is always possible to happen and unforeseeable things, but simply, it is a job for which people have defined themselves both the type and weight of work sometimes determines and the more difficult consequences we face. We want to tell you, so I don't get into a more difficult political story, so we're doing a very important humanitarian job there, but we have agreement and Angola, Rwanda and Burundi. We have made sure, as we have now, before we come up with any proposal to the MPs around our participation in any peacekeeping mission in Mali, we have consulted all our African friends in the Mali environment, from Algeria to all others, those with whom we have the greatest jobs, those with whom we have the most successful co-operation, and then, of course, with our European and other strategic partners about potential participation. As for the military neutrality that has been talked about so much today, we, under the Lisbon Treaty, of course, have the right to military neutrality. There are more countries in Europe that have military neutrality, therefore, than Austria, Finland, Switzerland, Sweden. I agree that we can change that with a resolution, but someone has to make a resolution or some other general legal act that would change it or some act of greater legal force or some special law, because "lex specialis derogat lies generals". So, we can do all this, but until we have it and until there is a political majority that would make such a decision, it is our job, our responsibility and our responsibility to enforce the laws, but also the general legal acts that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has made. That's how we acted. That's how we behave. As regards certain objections to the Military Security Agency and to the fact that we have, which is a comparative analysis, well noted, the most restrictive possible application of specific measures and procedures, that is absolutely true and that people, above all in the VBA, are not particularly happy, but this is the result of the fact that we wanted to meet, I would say, all obligations, not only in the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, but in line with all international public-law norms that speak of human rights and freedoms. At the same time, I'd like to say that intelligence agencies, especially military agencies, are under constant review by various independent agencies in our country, independent institutions. Mr. Sutanovac knows that it is not always easy and that sometimes it is not easy to understand certain remarks, to be quite open, but that our job to answer is to respect these institutions and that, even though we know that reality makes some different solutions, we agree with their demands. There's one thing that's very important to say, that, for example, our services, our military services, are the only ones who have the prescribed rules on how security checks are conducted. Other of our institutions have no precise, no MUP, no BIA, but you will notice that under greater criticism, VBA and VOA are always for unknown reasons. To be honest, I can't understand that. So we have a clear rule on how these checks are conducted and he's completely transparent, available to everyone. You can see it. That rule is exactly how it works. What I'm saying is, as Mr. Milivojevic is proud, I'm proud, I suppose, of all the members of the army, but also our VBA and VOA, it's the fact that, of course, there are problems in the Army. Of course, there's no company, there's no family in which there's no problem. There are problems everywhere, but you're absolutely right, the military is somehow always protecting the state and there's always the least scandal in the Army, and that's why the Army has the greatest confidence in the people. Unbound for who will be the defence minister tomorrow, I am convinced that this man, man or woman, too, will have an equal relationship with the state and take care of it, not just documents that did not appear from the VBA or the VOA. It seems to me that there has never been any political blackmail or that kind of dirty laundry that would come from neither the Serbian Army nor the Ministry of Defence, as it has from some other institutions. I want to thank you again. Your idea has been accepted, we will invite all the peace operations commanders and all the heads of observation missions that took part in the previous period already for February 15th, for Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia. I apologize to Mr Samardzic. It is true, we disagree on these two EU missions. There is a political difference, but I want you to know that these missions are also organised in accordance with the UN Resolution and that we have, especially in EUROFOR, relations, bilateral co-operation with Italian and French soldiers, which is of great strategic importance for our relations with both Italy and France, especially because of our already signed strategic friendship and strategic relations with our governments. At the same time, in every future case, and competent services in the military of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence will always and in every way take care of our national and state interests, but what is important I ask the citizens to understand. Today, we have several athletes who can represent our country in an extraordinary way. As some have said, I really think that our army, our soldiers who are receiving awards everywhere, who are getting recognitions and who everyone wants, we have this case that a large number of European countries want Serbian soldiers as partners, wants Serbia's Army as a partner army, and we have some kind of sweet pain, whatever you call them, that we can choose a country and a strategic partner with which we will participate and thus fix our international and legal position, I would say without a doubt. I thank you once again for one very good, fair and correct debate. Serbia will in the coming period, not because there is greater engagement, but because the country's ratings are gradually rising, but we will slowly raise our opportunities in the dedicated industry and expect that this reputation, which the Republic of Serbia Army has, will contribute to and develop economic relations with many countries. So far, we have had good military-military co-operation, we have had particularly good military medical cooperation, and what we will be working on in particular, and what has started to be done especially with individual countries, let's say, and in the previous period, I expect to dramatically improve in the coming time and that Serbian citizens and not only those employed in the dedicated industry and in the "Yugoimport" and some other factories that are linked to the dedicated industry, but also all other citizens see it through the growth of our industrial production through more investment, but also through a number of employees. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-11-0.u11871	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you.
