ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17147	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system it is established that there are 89 MPs present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nebojsa Stefanović, Gordana Comić, Katarina Rakic, Branko Ružic, Dusica Morčev and Radojko Obradović. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, the President of the National Assembly, in connection with the search in details of the 1st item of the agenda, next to the representative of Master Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, has called for the sittings to be attended by Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance and Business, Milica Bisic, Special Advisor of Finance and Business and Ljiljana Petrovic, Head of the Tax and Property Group at the Ministry of Finance and Business. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND CONSULTS OF THE IMOVINES You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milošević, Miroslav Petković, Dejan Mihajlov, Dr Nenad Popović, Bojana Bozanić, Gorica Gajic, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarević, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mić, Ivan Panić, Bojan Djurić, Zoran Ostojić, Boris Stefanović, Prof. Dr Janko Vjeljinović, Gordana Čović, Gorica Mojović, Batandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Panić, Biljananova Koraić, Boranović, Boris Stefan Stefanović, Boris Stefanović, Dr. Dr. Janko Vjeljinović, Miljanović, Dragović, Dragović, Dragović, Dragović, Milić. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinions on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićic, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Gorica Mojovic, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Milivojevic and Dragoljub Micunovic jointly submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Srdjan Mikovic submitted to the 1st amendment with the correction. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stevanović and Gordana Comic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17148	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during the principle debate on this bill, we have pointed out all the problems this law will produce both in local self-government and in citizens. We have pointed out our criticism and our opposition that in such a difficult situation, in which the government has brought the state to the state when it comes to the state of the budget, the problem will be solved by bringing tax collection opportunities or budgeting to citizens, i.e. to local self-government, and then to citizens. I'd like to remind you at the beginning that he's been going over the past few years the whole process of seizing funds to local self-government. At the same time, as the process of confiscation went, so was the process of adding new powers. In 2009, transfer funds were reduced. Mr. Minister, you were in that government when we at the DSS very strongly criticised that decision and said what consequences it would have on local self-government. Then, in 2011, a law was passed that was supposed to repair the state of finances of local self-government, but unfortunately without any greater effect, especially since the situation with the transfer funds remained the same. A new law is now being passed in which local self-government will also be denied for certain funds. At the same time, local self-government was given jurisdiction when it comes to roads, when it comes to health care and a series of others with these reduced resources. It is simply not possible to talk about any decentralisation, no strengthening of local self-government over the past four years and a period covering both of these governments. We just don't see what politics is like. About the previous government, we told everything we had to say, all the worst with all the criticism about her relationship with local self-government. We don't see any change in this government compared to local self-government. On the other hand, is it really a question of whether this is the way to expand the scope of all those who will enter the obligation to pay the tax relating to the property? Was it necessary, Mr. Minister, for refugees to be covered by these taxes? Was it necessary for those who were getting real estate to use for rent because they had fled their hearth now to pay taxes? Was it necessary for social cases to pay house taxes that they had been leased by local self-governments who had the opportunity to give them? We don't see any justification for this decision. My colleague, Dejan Mihajlov, pointed out in principle a problem that concerned who would be obliged to pay taxes on, let's say, auxiliary facilities within a single household. You said that this would not apply to those who primarily deal with agriculture, but you know very well, I come from Vojvodina, that especially in Vojvodina, a large number of households within their courtyard have lower levels where they keep pigs, barns, to eat, to do other work, not agriculture, so I ask you if these people who are incomparably larger numbers than those who are registered to pay taxes and those facilities? They're rightly concerned now. I ask the question – why all this? What's the point of that? These are the questions that made it absolutely unacceptable for us to have such a provision in the law, and therefore my colleagues tabled an amendment to delete it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17149	Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17150	I won't answer for every discussion, but I would like to say something that I think is important about the property tax law. In order to avoid any doubt, we have changed this law exclusively to change the way in which legal persons are taxed, i.e. companies and companies, since 1 January 2014, one other law has abolished the compensation for construction land and that local self-government must have some compensation. In that sense, we suggested that legal persons pay tax on property on so-called so-called so-called property. Fair market value rather than book value as so far, which will then, since it will not pay the parafiscal charge that has been abolished by the Law on Planning and Construction, will pay regularly, a real property tax, which has not been the case so far. It was absolutely not our intention to change anything in law as far as taxation of citizens through property tax, nor through any other law we have proposed to the Assembly here. Given that there were some fears and doubts in the principle discussion here, in order to specify what we came up with, today we adopted on our proposal one amendment of the Committee to which we returned depreciation, and we increased it even against the current law, because until now the depreciation of old apartments was 0.8% year-on-year and up to 40% maximum, and now we have put it up to 1% and local self-government itself determine whether it will be 0%, 0.1%, 08%, 09% or 1%. So we've given every local self-government the opportunity to determine the depreciation on its own, which is in line with the principle of fiscal decentralisation that I'm up for. So it won't be a fiscular for all depreciation, but let the municipality itself assess what is real and what corresponds to the social position of citizens, zones, etc. In this way, regardless of what the Fiscal Council insisted and because of this we did not have in the initial amortisation text, it was returned to a greater extent than previously possible. The second thing, so there wouldn't be any doubt, when we talked about the exemption of those 10 acres from taxation, we meant city building land. In a member of the law, we have that this does not explicitly apply to farmers, or to those involved in this activity. If there were no doubt about it, we also accepted one amendment given by Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic, which is to exempt all land from taxation until 10 acres. All the land, even what wasn't excluded by this law, as well as agricultural. Now it is explicit, not only urban construction but also agricultural up to 10 acres out of taxation, which means that the essential parameters that we now give to citizens, and citizens are either people in the city or people in the agriculture business, enable even a reduction in property tax. Why is this important? Because in the discussion, one opposition party said there could be an increase in property tax by 700 or 800%. We checked the weekend that it's impossible. Even if no depreciation is considered, even if the market price does not determine the real age of the apartment, the maximum theoretical increase could be 67% correct. So that wouldn't be, we were wondering why someone went out with that assessment? Because we have established that some local self-government, not to say the city, is not implementing the current law today but is violating it and falsifying the basics and does not consistently apply the provisions of the current law, and apparently the idea of making use of the change of this law now and that it all comes down to this government, even though one is certain, and perhaps more local self-government is not currently implementing the existing law. It is very important that MPs and citizens know that we are not changing any of the only parameters now in the Property Tax Act because tomorrow, if a severe increase in property tax occurs in one particular city, it is only the result of the decision of the local self-government, and it will come from the fact that they do not respect the current law. I see in the property tax this year, when we've been looking at this data for certain locations that are licensed here in the debate, it's actually the main trick not to apply the current law, and we're going to see if there are certain sanctions for not applying the law. In most local self-government, the current law is applied, but not everywhere. There was the idea that responsibility was transferred to the new republican government because of the possible drastic tax hike, which made it impossible for us to accept the amendment of Dusan Petrovic, and on the other hand by adopting the amendment of the Finance Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17151	People's MP, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17152	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that we have heard this now, and it is good that the Government, after a heated debate, which we had during the debate on the law in principle, has accepted some suggestions, above all, that the position of farmers and agricultural land, in general taxation of land less than 10 acres, will change after the adoption of this law. It is good that the government has accepted these suggestions, accepted these amendments and thus realistically put citizens in place, and has shown realistically that the position of citizens will not deteriorate much after the adoption of this law. It is not disputed that taxes should be paid and that the state has to do everything to collect that tax and that is something that every country in the world does. In many countries, anything can be avoided, but taxes must be paid. It's simple, and our country lives on it, and the tax has to be charged, but we need to see how that tax is going to be charged. That's one thing to take care of and we'll talk about a little longer when we later debate and other amendments. Of course, it should be mentioned that the tax is greater than the tax on building land and that this payment will be higher than it was for construction land fees, that is, the minister mentioned, 67% will be higher, plus what has now been adopted on the proposal of opposition MPs and us from the DSS in the debate in principle, which is to accept depreciation, that agricultural land is not taxed below 10 acres, because many people living in the village or living in the city, in suburban municipalities that have households, are employed somewhere, and also in their household stables, hens, landings, barns, barns, barns, barns, barns, barns, barns, barns. They'd be hit by this law and pay taxes. The only ones exempt from paying taxes based on the carrying out of agricultural activity, as it stands in a member of the law, are registered agricultural households, and only those who primarily live on agriculture. It means that all those who have another source of income, if someone is employed in a company, if they perform any other activity, would be excluded from this law. We think it's a good thing that the amendment has been adopted that everything remains the same, that households below the 10 acres will not be taxed, because it avoids the possibility of abuse, that those who may be one member of the household, and we know that many people live in joint households, more generations, employed somewhere, they would be hit by this law, and they basically live and do exactly that household. This applies, as it stands in the law, to both the house and all the auxiliary facilities, garages, so it's a good thing this is done. We need to see to what extent and how this law will apply. I agree that local self-governments that are quite dormant and need to be moved, that this large number of employees, mostly on the party line, have to start working, do their job, and that local self-government is starting to be someone who will take care of expenditures and incomes and that local self-government gets their job, which is to directly communicate with citizens in their interest. We therefore still feel that there is a need to discuss, in relation to agricultural households, to the extent that those agricultural households will also have more than 10 acres, which are not registered only as agricultural ones, but all those living from agriculture in suburban and rural areas, which have perhaps 11 acres, to which extent will be the bonds of this property tax law and how. I hope that through the debate we will be able to come to a solution, that we will ease the position of these agricultural households that are registered, but who have employees in other activities, not only in agriculture, how to facilitate their position, in order to avoid abuses in the application of this law. We have one, I hope, debate that will bear fruit and where the government will accept some of the suggestions, not only amortization, but also the abolition of this provision for taxation of households under 10 acres and some other which the government has accepted in relation to dentists, doctors, lawyers, but also these agricultural households that are engaged in agriculture, but which do not exclude both the large-scale activity, but who live, among other things, and from that. I expect the government to accept some other solutions in the citizens' interest through this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17153	Thank you. MP Srdjan Shane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17154	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear Minister, I just want to convey the conversation that I had yesterday with the Association of Tax Liberties who are just saying that it is good that you did what you did today and that I was deeply right when I said that the minister has an understanding for citizens, for the position of citizens, and that there is indeed a good intention to adopt certain amendments that are going in that direction and that they are really in a good mood to continue the conversation with you later, and in this way really provide certain support for all the good solutions that your ministry brings. In that sense, I really welcome all those things once again, in which direction you went with the adoption of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17155	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olga Batic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs together, Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić, together with Boris Stefanović and Gordana Komic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17156	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, taxing the relative economic power of the debtor, that's the constitutional category. However, although this constitutional category stands in the light of the ovaxacone, it seems to me that you were not exactly guided by this principle when you changed this property tax law. Why do I think so? It is precisely because of this amendment to this Article 3 which we have submitted to the amendment, since it is very well seen that, despite your claim that the only reason for the amendment of this property tax law was to make a single tax solution for the city's building land, since the land's status has changed since 1 January 2014, in order to be taxed. First of all, from this law and from every member at all, you had one basic intention, which is to increase the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget and I think we can agree on that, that's a clear fact. The second reason you cited this law is fiscal centralised. I remind you that in 2011, there was a change in that law on the financing of local self-government, where you were just insisting on some kind of fiscal decentralisation, when local self-government got far more opportunities for income, unlike that of the 2007 law. So we have a real situation, we have one explanation of the finance minister and the economy that's not exactly true. Mr. Minister, we really understand that in the first row of the Republic of Serbia's budget there are no revenues to which you have been counting. So you obviously made one wrong estimate of the revenue you could expect from increasing excise duties on fuel and tobacco. Obviously, you were wrong to estimate what revenue you could expect from an increase in VAT. So there's no income. How do you get those incomes set up? You're the one who decided to take a bank of pigs. You've decided to take from the citizens and take from the local self-government. It is, in fact, simplest and it is a feature of a highly centralized government and state, which the concept does not leave. It is clear to us that the Fiscal Council has supported these tax laws, but precisely because it was run by the concept of this highly centralized. It simply adapted itself to the model of functioning of territorial order and fiscalization of the state, which is current and which is applied in nature and application. Therefore, when you accept sometimes the opinion and advice of the Fiscal Council, then you do it because it specifically suits you, then ad hoc fits. When you think it's contrary to your concept, you don't accept it. So it's quite selective that relationship, according to the Fiscal Council. This is very easy to see when you look at the opinion of the fiscal council of March this year, when you look at the almost given opinion. Then we can realize that you have a serious problem with what you're always making up your mind, and not just this time, but you're actually opting for some ad hoc solutions instead of serious reforms. You are aware that we need pension reform. You are aware that we need to work far more on the status and functioning of public enterprises. So we need public sector reform. It is clear to you how much it is necessary here to save far more, to reduce that public spending. It is clear to you that it is necessary to reduce public debt. You're talking about reducing the deficit. However, the deficit, according to the Fiscal Council, is already over 5% today, and you have projected it to 3.5%. So these are some things that literally appear whenever you call for certain measures that will have certain reform potentials and which will significantly change the state of the Serbian economy and economy. But that's not true. It would be good for you to make it clear and loud that the income is gone, that the revenues are very low, that you were wrong when you designed them and you expected that height wrong. The other day you were saying, Mr. Minister, that only the strongest and most capable entrepreneurs should remain. I'd like to ask you how we would evaluate ourselves, as far as success is concerned, when you projected the level of the budget deficit to 3.5%, when you expected far greater revenues than the ones you eventually made? So, what kind of entrepreneur would you be if you took the Serbian economy as a single company? Are you a successful or unsuccessful businessman? (President: Mrs Popovic, I really must tell you to get back on the subject, please. ) Therefore, the bottom line is that the citizen of this country and local self-government, the lowest level of government, will eventually bear the greatest burden of all these economic experiments ad hoc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17157	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mikovic, according to his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17158	I just wanted to point to an article. 27, 32 and 164. Rules of Procedure, as regards the possibility of adequate participation of each MP in the debate. Now, after 40 minutes after the scheduled start of the Assembly's work in search of amendments, we have received a final report from the Committee on this first law - a bill on property taxes. We were practically disabled by now, because we didn't know what the board's position was in relation to the government's position. According to the information I have, it was obvious that at the meeting of the Committee, the minister represented in some things, not only the government's position, but also his personal position, which was diametrically contrary to the government's position, on the subject of individual amendments. That is why I am now happy that I have finally received a report from the board, at least for this first draft of the law, which is currently being discussed, but the fact that in other drafts of the law came to a different position of the government's representative on the board, in relation to what the government has proposed. That's why I felt it was extremely necessary that, before we discuss this, we also have a report on the committee's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17159	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. I have to admit, I didn't understand you very well what I hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I guess that's because you got the reports too late. Now you obviously have them, so I think everything's fine now. Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17160	As for previous presentations, I remind you once again that property tax is a hundred percent tax on cities and municipalities. So the tendency to change it to improve the situation in the republican budget is simply not true. The full income from the property tax goes to cities and municipalities. The second thing, local self-governments, i.e. cities and municipalities, are independent in the selection of property tax parameters, up to certain limits given in the Republic law. Third, the Republic law now does not change in any parameter the possibility of increasing the tax charged to citizens on the basis of property tax. Not at all. Following this amendment, which was adopted today on my proposal, there is not one single parameter that changes in this law, which would increase the taxation of citizens. What exactly is it? It is true, but not because of the property tax, but because of other laws, the income tax on citizens and the rate of contributions, that local self-government will have to save. That's what I said openly, and that's what I'm behind. As far as citizens are concerned, nothing has changed the Republic which would relate to the amount of property tax for citizens. This amendment of the Committee is also important because it gives independence in depreciation, to which you have submitted the amendment, that the municipality itself and the city determine what the depreciation rate will be and can change over time, but must determine by the end of the current year for the next year. What does that mean? Given that experts estimate that cities and municipalities currently charge maybe only 50% of the potential property tax, because they have less property coverage than it really is, they simply don't have a register of all possible properties, so some people don't tax at all, while some people pay it, given that some lower the system base, simply, the decision is that there's no universal rule. This differs from city to city, from municipality to municipality, and each municipality needs to make its own decision, which is in the spirit of fiscal decentralisation, about what the rate, what the zone will look like, what the coefficients will look like and, now another newspaper, how much depreciation will be for old apartments. So far it's 0.8% a year, and we've given the opportunity to go up to 1% a year, to further lower the property tax for citizens. What I'm trying to say is that the property tax law doesn't touch at all a change for ordinary citizens, unless some city or municipality decides otherwise. We haven't even increased our rates, nor have we now removed any base reduction with this amendment board, we've even increased it, we've been going in the opposite direction. It's just that there's not a single parameter left that would impose on the government to increase the property tax. My recommendation to local self-government is to place first in an equal, equal position for all citizens, i.e. that those objects that are not registered at all, registered, on which no tax is paid at all, are recorded in order to pay a tax in proportion to their strength, depending on the size of the facility. That's the first thing. Another thing, every local self-government will measure according to the time in which laws are passed. Now it's a difficult time and there's no logic to increase the property tax, but in five, ten years, this law won't apply for one year, the law is in force until it changes, it's a longer period of years, if circumstances are corrected, the possibility is given, the maneuvering space for the municipalities themselves to determine how they're going to fix it. I repeat again in the end once again – every penny of property tax goes to local cash registers, to registers of cities and municipalities, not to the Republic. So any objections to the interest in centralization, when the property tax law is at stake, it doesn't make any sense, but simply this law gives maneuvering space to municipalities, some can charge less, some can charge more, each will measure depending on their own situation, and that is the essence. There is now even greater decentralisation, related to the Property Tax Act, than it was with this law, because even the depreciation rate can be determined on its own, but no more than 1% a year and no more than 40% a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17161	Thank you. Mr. Konstantinovic, did you want to follow this amendment or about yours, which is next? (Nenad Konstantinovic, from the post: Following this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I think you've been doing what you've been saying on the board and what you've been saying, has shown that we were all right when we discussed the law in principle. You accepted that there was no tax on gardens up to 10 acres even though you talked on Friday about it wasn't intent, you didn't want it, you accepted the amendment of the opposition MPs that there was no taxation of up to 10 acres and that's certainly a good solution. As for this amendment, Col. Popovic, I must tell you that this is not the solution that the committee has formulated the amendment. The committee said local self-government can determine the depreciation rate as much as it wants, and I think that this creates a huge inequality among Serbian citizens. How is it possible for the depreciation rate to be in one city a certain percentage, in another city a completely different percentage, so we will have an inequality among citizens. That depreciation rate could be 0.2% in Nis and 1% in Novi Sad. Can we leave somewhere responsible, somewhere irresponsible local self-government to decide? On the other hand, this law determines tax relief. We haven't found those tax reliefs. Our tax credit is still up to 20,000 dinars. So it's not true that we give local self-government to decide. Let's say then - the local self-government determines both the way, and the assessment, value and calculation and tax relief for its citizens, and then the Tax Administration of local self-government will find some solution that is quality for these citizens. On the one hand, we make it impossible by law to make it easier, and on the other hand, we give them the opportunity to determine for themselves how much that tax will be. What did you do essentially? Let's say it loud and clear. You took local self-government income from profit tax. You took a lot of money. You took eight billion to Belgrade, and then you gave local self-government the opportunity to skin the citizens. Now we all have to wait until next year to see if a certain local self-government, a certain municipality, a certain city, if there's not enough money in the budget to reach out to what you're allowing them to do, which is to skin and rob citizens. You said the depreciation rate could be up to 1%. It was earlier that she was required 0.8% and what counterpart Popovic suggested was to return that solution that she must be 0.8%. Up to 1%, so it can be and more can be and far less. The local self-government can say -- there's no depreciation, there's no one to determine, there's no money in the budget, and there's no cuts on the citizens. Who's going to suffer these consequences? The consequences are exclusively and only the citizens of Serbia suffer. You say this law has nothing to do with citizens. This law has the most to do with citizens, because the tax on property is the property of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and is targeting them. Hence, tax relief is nothing wrong, and the law applies in 2014 and will be valid for several years. Please, we're witnessing that every year this law is changing and don't tell that story for maybe five years. We'll change in five years, if it's possible in five years. This is now for 2014 when you give citizens the opportunity to be robbed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17163	Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17164	What you're after is right and responsibility, that's two different things. What you're looking for is supposed to be in the words of decentralisation, and then in practice you say -- well, don't let the mayor decide on something, let him decide for us the Republic Government. He can't do both. You must decide as part of your parliamentary group what you are. He's got two approaches. Either the mayor will be responsible for what is 100% local income or, of course, up to some of the limits given by law and restriction, or then simply can't the mayor just say – I want right, and I don't want responsibility. So, there's no reason to say, your mayor or any other person who skins the citizens as you put it, if he doesn't want to. And he'll reprimand them if he wants to. But then it's the individual responsibility of a particular mayor. So, the mayor, the president of the municipality, needs to create conditions, to create a system that will allow as many taxes to be collected by hiring more people by investing more quickly, by issuing construction permits and by making more revenue in traffic dynamics, for the municipality. The fact is that the property tax is insufficiently used income primarily because of the lack of urgency in the recording of the corresponding property that was recorded and it has cases that 40%, according to the experts' estimates, is uninformed assets in the cataster and no property tax is charged on it, although it is easy to do so. Fiscal centralization allows local tax administrations to go to the field and write down those houses. It's not matches, it's objects that need to be typed and then at the same rate that applies to all the other charges from those who don't pay anything. It is also the cities themselves, as you know, that determine progressiveness and can tax more richer and reduce the taxation of those who do not have. What's so important? The essence of the amendment of your parliamentary group, I am now speaking to you after you have spoken last, was that the mayor or mayors you represent avoid any responsibility at all costs. Where they have a positive marketing, and when it comes to responsibility, to decide something, to transfer it to an evil government, an evil minister or an evil republic. It's not fair, and this law is just so made that every city, every mayor, every president of the municipality has the opportunity to answer to the citizens by leading a policy that he thinks is the best and that he should, and that can be different from the case to the case. Simply decentralisation does not mean adolescence of responsibility. It is good, in my opinion, that the Committee has accepted the amendment that even at the amortisation rate, the possibility of self-determining cities will be 0.1% or 1%, not to be a liability 0.8%, because you have cities where there is simply the possibility of applying a higher rate than the one that is so far in law, and there are also those cities that can determine that this rate is too high and can go to a lower rate. The fact that depreciation is still within the law. This tax credit, i.e. the deduction has not changed in relation to the existing law, and I repeat once again not one single parameter for ordinary citizens in the law is changing, and the decisions of the concrete mayors will depend on what a concrete basis will be. I don't see what it would be, any fear, because I will quote to you, for example, the decision of the City of Belgrade in December of this year, which says - the property tax for 2013 for the immovableity of the debtor who does not keep a business book for the corresponding area of the immovable list cannot be determined to a greater extent than the corresponding tax liability of that taxpayer for 2012. If one city in this case could determine this this year, do not transfer responsibility tomorrow for being increased because of a republic, and it is clear that the city can make such a decision if it wants to. I'm just saying, your argument isn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17165	Thank you. Sasa Milenić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17166	The President-in-Office, on the basis of the first item of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall advertise the violation of Article 107. Rules of Procedure relating to the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of an assessment of the proposed amendments to the Property Tax Act, a number of inappropriate qualifications were used to defend the rights of local self-government in terms such as "citizens" by local self-government and even more unsuitable "to rob citizens" by local self-government. Cinism despises the rights of citizens to local self-government, whaled by arguments of defence of that right, be under that classification from farmers and words and we all leave behind clues about our own position by criticising others. But it's an inappropriate use of rights to call shouting or looting citizens, it's about basic civilization achievement. Supporting the ministry's and government's proposal, also dissatisfied with the fact that local self-government really wants to reduce one part of the income on the basis of citizens' income tax, it is doubtless that the government provides local self-government with additional instruments to consolidate its own budgets and use these funds within the limits of the law, none of which can be either robbery, nor the irritation of citizens, but the ability of local self-government to function as a lever of development in the local environment. So, please don't tolerate these qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17167	I implore all Members of the people to honor together the dignity of the National Assembly. The word is Nenad Konstantinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17168	I must admit, I didn't understand how you hurt the Rules of Procedure earlier, but I assume they'll be voting on this breach of the Rules of Procedure in your work. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the obligation to pay taxes and other taxes is general and is based on the economic power of the obligor. Therefore, the Constitution treats the tax issue and the tax issue cannot be left to the local self-government that by some act, which does not even have the weight of the law determine what tax it will be. Why am I saying that? The most important thing is predictability, we don't know how many taxes there will be, we're passing laws today, and you're putting in certain provisions and no one can calculate what tax there will be anymore. What we could calculate before you changed the law, which was Friday, that the tax would rise 800 percent, 700 percent. The city of Belgrade has been responsible in the past and has realised that citizens cannot pay taxes, that does not mean that all other local self-governments are responsible, that the City of Belgrade was responsible and in 2013 could not have been more property tax in the City of Belgrade, but in 2012. That is why we have proposed such provisions, in order to achieve that in the territory of all Serbia, citizens cannot increase taxes, as much as they will and as they will. The fact that you said cities should be engaged in employment, we were in employment, there are the most employees in Belgrade, the most worked in Belgrade, and then you took our income tax. With all the local self-government, you took a profit tax. So what was the motive of every local self-government, it's to bring the factory to its place, to hire as many people as possible, it would have melted into that if you had a profit tax. Now no one has that tax, that tax you took exclusively for yourself. Where tax breaks are in the law, give local self-government the right to determine tax breaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17169	MP Vladimir Ilic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17170	Obviously, the subject of property tax has been quite inappropriately exploited these days, because on Friday we heard hysterical announcements about how it would be tossing citizens, that it's an inappropriate accusation, that the Republic has imposed high taxes, it's all false and you know well, because it's clearly being manipulated because here are a few facts. You've heard, the minister has already repeated several times that no single parameter has changed in these taxes. You then claimed that the tax increase was 700,800 percent, and here to this day you did not present this mathematics. Not only the Minister, you could have given him, to the public, to show that famous mathematics of 700 percent. So that's one nonsense. Taxes on property in Serbia, in the revenues of all levels of government participate below 0.7%. So, they are the lowest in Europe and they are not big and it is not a great burden on the citizens of Serbia, but in terms of the economic crisis, I am against them increasing and this law does not imply an increase in these taxes on the contrary giving them the opportunity to be reduced, and this depends on local self-government. If you accuse the Government of centralism, then it's completely paradoxical, because the government is on the contrary giving a fairly broad framework and precisely in the spirit of fiscal decentralisation, it allows local administrations to define the rates and define the areas, and precisely the total burden of citizens. Isn't that the point of fiscal decentralisation? Fiscal decentralisation is also a fiscal responsibility. It's a complete replacement of thesis, and it really doesn't make sense that anyone is afraid of this kind of tax, because in no way are they increasing, in any way, the income of the Republic's budget, because what we had the opportunity to hear on Friday, and what we heard today, is a pure replacement of thesis and total nonsense. I call on you for the citizens of Serbia to present this famous mathematics of an increase of 600,700 or 800%, to see all of Serbia, the minister and all of us actually talk about. I'm afraid there's nothing to talk about because you obviously don't understand exactly what you're talking about, so accordingly, I'd like the discussion to get really into one seriousness and argument in the follow-up of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17171	Thank you. The word is Nenad Constantinović. Do you want the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17172	It's just that my colleague may not have understood me, I don't know what you don't understand. Under the bill, the minister abolished depreciation. Amortization up to 40%. I don't know what's not clear about that. When you can reduce by 40% of the tax base, it's one option to determine the tax, when you can't do it as the minister suggested, you're in a situation where the tax base is going to be 40% higher. On a 40% higher tax base when you apply progressive rates, and the rates are 0.4%, so 0.6% up to 2% you get 800% tax difference. I didn't do this mathematics, she was doing the Department of Revenue of the City of Belgrade, and after our performance on Friday, there was a lot of consultation between Minister Dinkic's team and the professional service, so they realized, apparently, what a mistake it was made and now you're restoring the possibility of depreciation. What brings back the possibility of amortizing from Friday to Monday? What happened on Saturday and Sunday that no longer matters the fiscal council's opinion that depreciation has to be lifted? What is it now that you can still amortize now? What happened Saturday and Sunday that didn't have to tax the garden? Wait, he had to go one square around the house on Friday, now he doesn't have to go to ten acres. There's no depreciation now. Why don't you get up and admit the mistake and say, yes, we're wrong, there should be depreciation. Now, you take it out and say: We give the local self-government a chance to determine it. I really don't know which local self-government will determine and which one won't. The local self-government that does not determine depreciation has derailed Serbian citizens. That's where we're letting go now. But if you say you're letting the whole tax go, then let the cities and municipalities at will determine the possibility of tax relief. We've got pensioners, we've got unemployed people, we've got people who don't have the bread to eat, let them have bigger tax breaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17173	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17174	So there's no big math here. We sat down for the weekend, since you didn't give us that bill from an increase of 600%, 700% and we asked to see how Belgrade collects the property tax and we realized that Belgrade doesn't actually apply the law. It's a simple solution. No market prices apply and no one knows how far back. So, was it because of the choice, if it was because I didn't know what. Belgrade is one, I don't know if anyone else does, I haven't seen it anywhere in Serbia, but Belgrade definitely doesn't apply the law, this existing one, before I enter parliament with applications. Someone got scared now, or someone saw it as a chance to possibly increase people's prices because he didn't apply the law and then accuse me, or the Republic Government. Theoretically, assuming that there's a suspension of depreciation left, we're talking pure mathematics, every citizen can take his tax solution and delete the depreciation. There's no way the theoretical maximum increase could be 67%, no 700%, no 800%. Those 700, 800% can only arise as a result of the full non-application of the existing law and the arbitrational determination of various parameters by the city of Belgrade, and that is true. It's just that it's no different. In view of all this, given the inadequacy of your discussions and given that indifference, I decided not to follow the Fiscal Council in this case, because tomorrow I would be accused of raising taxes to the Belgradeers and decided to even increase potential depreciation up to 1% annually, so that no single parameters in the law would be changed, that's the whole truth. So the lie was possible as a result of the republican government's increase in property tax 600, 700%, because mathematically, if you prove it, I would immediately resign. The only way is what you've been doing, the city isn't applying, it's breaking the law, and now it's probably one of your heads thinking about it -- let's now raise people 600% and raise a grudge against me, against the republican government, and in fact, how does the people know whether the city of Belgrade applied the law or not. People, don't, if you've already made this decision that you can't increase the property tax in 2013 or 2012, you can make that you can't increase in 2014 or 2013. Where's the tax hike? Pogaci and bread is held by the mayor of Gilas on this, like any other mayor. It can if it wants to increase, and it doesn't have to, that's all I'm suggesting is that this is just a local tax and the will of local self-government what it's going to do. Only a request, not fair, in Serbia some unpopular measures must be taken in some other things, to cut expenditure first of all, to increase the efficiency of the public sector in general. There's no room here for an increase in property tax, but if someone drastically increases them, let him take responsibility for it. It's not fair, and it's cowardly in advance to think you're passing it on to someone else. You mean, I know what my responsibility is, but don't exaggerate. Don't overdo anything wrong with Dinkic, so there's something Gilas can do on his weak shoulders to take over, I guess, if he already wants to skin the citizens, as you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17175	Mr. Ilic, you wanted the same replica of Mr. Konstantinovic's exposure. Is that right? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17176	That's exactly what I'm trying to say is that it's a matter of pure abuse and the use of this amendment of law so that someone based on the very change of law can take advantage of the opportunity to skin the citizens, and that sets it to the Republic government. That's why the minister also accepted the amendment to abolish depreciation. The fact that you mention 600-700% clearly shows an elementary lack of knowledge of mathematics. Even if you absorb depreciation, apply a rate of 700% tax increase is not possible, but it is only possible to increase Mr. Gilas's income by a year of 700% based on what these companies did, the monopoly position, the abuse of politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17177	Thank you. Mr. Konstantinovic, I will give you the right to a replica just to read the order after you MPs, since I have many reported. It is Milisav Petronijevic, Borislav Stefanovic, Bojan Djuric and Dejan Mihajlov, in that order for now. The word is Mr. Konstantinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17178	So when there are no arguments, then we move on to personal insult. Minister and colleague Ilic insulted Gilas. I don't know why it bothers you that the city of Belgrade did not want to determine a higher tax in 2013 than in 2012 for citizens of Belgrade? Because he is responsible for the citizens of Belgrade. We ask that everyone in Serbia be responsible and ask that people who have nothing to live on do not come under attack, who are not interested in what authorities, whether local or republican. You are the one who makes it possible for citizens to be robbed. Understand the reality in which we live, the world doesn't have the money to pay taxes, not the way it is now, let alone increase taxes. You say -- it couldn't, it wouldn't be more than 60, 70%. People, is it normal to have an increase in property taxes of 60, 70% in one decision, one solution, in one year? It is not true that it cannot be restricted by law to increase compared to last year. We had two laws in 2010 and 2011, the laws were passed in this House and it was passed in law that the tax could not be higher next year than it was in last year. Do your calculations however you like and depreciation and not depreciation, but understand one thing, Serbian citizens no longer have dinars, there are existences on the verge of not paying any taxes, let alone 70 or 700% increased property tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17179	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17180	You're deliberately chasing pots. I don't want to increase the tax on the people of Belgrade, but I want the mayor to do something transparent and not against the law. This is not how it is done, if you do not want to increase the tax to the citizens by saying – the decision cannot be increased by burdening the city's decision, but rather by reducing the rate. The law provides for the possibility to reduce the rate or to maintain the same obligations. It's untransparent what Gilas did. Why did he do it, I wonder? Ask yourself, if you already have a rate of 0 to 04, by reducing the rate itself, which is the right city, it could have the same effect to achieve, and the question is why didn't Gilas do it? Because then you'd say -- Belgrade doesn't need money. In this way, it retains the right to complain that Belgrade is allegedly without money, because it has not changed its rate, and it will not object to the citizens and stick to the non-transparent decision of the same commitment. So what I'm just expecting is that the law is respected, not broken. I'm not asking for an increase in property tax, for God's sake, the Belgrades. Let's keep it the same, but through the rate reduction, through the reduction of some of the other parameters that are here. But no, nothing changed in rates, but some arbitration decisions faked the prices of apartments, I don't know, in Miriev. You have there, I'll give you an example, it's been determined that the price per m2 for taxpayers is 110,000 dinars, and it's realistic that the price of squares is, say, 1,200, 1,300 euros. You don't do it that way, you don't fake things, you reduce the tax rate, you get the same result. The law therefore gives flexibility to cities and municipalities, that they can, if they want to go with a reduction in the tax on property, but through a reduction in the tax rate, not through some arbitration decisions which collapses the system. What I resent to you is that you were telling a lie when you were talking about that 700-800%, it was simply a lie, nothing more than that. Just don't tell the truth if it's a situation. Absolutely, do not increase the property tax if the law tells you that you should increase because of other parameters, reduce the rate, that is what the city of Belgrade needs to do, as other cities do. There's no reason to say, do you know what's untrue, if I'm not clear, I'll explain it one more time? If any city, be it Belgrade, Sabac, Zaječar, whatever it says, I'm reducing the tax on property. What's the implications? City authorities say – we have enough money, we can reduce the burden on property. Here's the problem next, then you can't complain that you don't have money and that someone from the Republic is guilty. That's why the rate doesn't decrease, because they say -- superhuman efforts are being made to solve the question of the Belgraders, and you put everything on the Republic. It's not fair, it's not in the spirit of fiscal centralization. So every city has the right to lower property taxes, but through a transparent reduction in tax rates, then there will be a question of the professional public – and what you do, and you whine on the other hand that you have no money, then you lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17181	National MP Dejan Mihaylov, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17182	In accordance with Article 27, I am asking both you and all the MPs that this debate does not turn into a debate on Dragan Gilas and Belgrade. Simply, we are talking about Serbia, all the cities and municipalities in Serbia and the tax that all Serbian citizens will touch. The most will be touched outside Belgrade, since Belgrade is also the highest average profit. And most of all, it's done. and everyone's coming to Belgrade. All major firms have representations in Belgrade and foreign companies. But how will they in Zajecar, Bor, Majdanpek, Kursumlia pay taxes? That should be our theme. One Gilas dam, the other attack. I don't care about that. I'm interested in how citizens will survive after the introduction of these taxes and see how they can be facilitated by the application of this law. All of you refrain from mentioning Gilas, Belgrade, that Belgrade will be the most endangered. Belgrade will, too, but there will be more other cities. Simply, let us do so in the spirit of this law and tax that is introduced to citizens of Serbia, who live everywhere, and not just in Belgrade. Those living in Belgrade live a little better than those living outside Belgrade. Let's finally deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17183	Thank you. I ask all MPs to return to the agenda. In that sense, the People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17184	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will, on the subject of amendments to Article 3 and on this subject relating to the determination of the value of immovable property, continue the story I had on Friday in the property tax section. At that time, I, and my colleagues, drew attention to the need for depreciation, that it was not the solution to be thrown out as a correction when determining the value of the property. And that's when I said, and again again, they're making changes in tax policy, when it comes to property tax, they're taxing first, and they're tough, those who have five, ten big houses, apartments, buildings, whatever you want, those who aren't registered, they're not taxed at all, and ultimately, very carefully, with a lot of, as I would say, the elements that will take care of how the people live and at the end of those who live in their own house, in their apartment. Then, and right now, I want to say that it's very good that the amendment has been accepted to bring the depreciation back as a correction to determine the value of the property in this way. That's very important for two reasons. One reason, which is to determine the value of the asset, is that the unit of local self-government determines the value by establishing the average value per zone. Therefore, it is the area which is subject to one market value. There could be an old house in that zone, an old building long ago amortized and a new magnificent villa, a building, a smart one, I don't know what everything is, etc. So, I find this correction very important and I support the intention of getting it back on the lease. I must say, to be fair, Mr. Secretary announced on Friday the return of that correction. If we add that a correction has been made in the part of the law relating to those 10 acres, that the solution that was previously returned, which we are also giving full support, I think it is most important today, Mr. Minister, to correct me if I am wrong, to send a message to the citizens that, when it comes to changing the property tax law, there is no change in the tax that will be paid by the citizens. This is very important, because they were both confused and scared when they heard various numbers, various increases, etc. Now it's important that we send them a message that this change of law does not apply, so to speak, to them. Whether or not the existing is good, that's another question. I will always say – charge from those who have the most, who have huge buildings, houses, God ask everything, not those where people live in them or in the last way when they are concerned. I repeat, I've come forward for a reason to simply send a message to the citizens. There is no change compared to paying taxes by citizens, compared to these changes in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17185	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17186	Of course, we in the DS think it's always opportunistic to submit different amendments -- some that require erasure, some that require supplementation, some that are precise. You don't know that, Mr. Dinkich, because you've never been an opposition. That's why I understand your criticism that I haven't forgotten, that there's a different approach with us. Well, there is, because in battle with you a man must reach out to all legal means, because otherwise we can't stop you from doing what you're doing. As a result of that, I'm glad you've returned the depreciation, and I'm glad you've lifted the house tax. This is not the result of your goodwill, as you say, for spite, but of what we have done, as a responsible opposition party, pressure on both you and the public to do so. And it's a good thing that you did it, but don't let it be now that you're responsible, out of spite, you hit us against the counter, so you came back. Well, thank you for that line. Otherwise, the point in all of this is this: we argue responsibly that the progress that we have set for a potential tax, absolutely stands. That's what your head of the parliamentary group saw for himself. And it's based on the law. You say - it's not true. Now in the end you tell us – be serious, don't exaggerate, tell the truth. Who's stronger now? You sent Mrs. Bisic there that day to count. You've managed to change your firm decision for the weekend, and we've tried this amendment to get things back to what it's like to amortize. You left the optional thing again. Because of the citizens, I have to explain what that means. Dear citizens, this authority, and rightly you're right that it's not all your fault, it's the SNS, who absolutely supports you and is absolutely behind you. It's their fault, because you've been a part of every government since 2000, and absolutely no government has given you up, including ours, but at least we kicked you out of the government. At least that's how much we've managed to do. Now you're telling us that this is all done because actually Gilas wants to do it, to fine the citizens of Belgrade, so he wants to move on to you? That's not true. The Republic government, therefore, all your ministers, both from the SNS, and from the SPS, have put their hands in the hands of the citizens. We caught you in it. We explained to the citizens how you do it. Your answer to that is hateful expressions, full of insults to people who are not present here. Your head of the parliamentary group can say hysterically, which is a serious mental state, but that's why it's not allowed to say – skin is peeling and screaming to the citizens, which you're doing right now. How come you don't notice that inconsistency? If I were to ask you, Mr Dinkic, would you bring this law this way, with the option of taking a tax on property, that by some miracle we could move to the state of Oz, and in that case you might be the mayor of Belgrade, would you then pass this law? There's no way you could have brought it. On the one hand, you take 300m euros from the pockets of citizens from the bar, and on the other hand, I've already told you, you give it to the mayors, but especially one who's a thorn in your eye, a crow to break the register of citizens, and to be branded a thief and guilty of your irresponsible politics, and then, when you do that, you say, well, wait. Mr. Dinkic, that's the highlight of cynicism. What you're doing, it's the highlight of cynicism. Do you really think anyone's gonna believe that? It's not our goal to accuse you personally. We aim to see what the Republic government is doing towards local self-government. Why do you think Verko Stevanović doesn't object to this law? Why doesn't Palma object to this law? Because they have direct donations, budget donations to their municipalities. Why doesn't Trieste complain? The people of Triestenik will also draw money from their pockets. The same thing, except they're going to say -- we're a successful municipality because we're doing it without an increase in taxes and without that cake and the knife you're mentioning to skin the citizens. Because they get money directly from you, so you can cross the censorship. That's true. Then you, stand up here and give us a lecture on the evil mayor, with whom you were on the same posters. Of the three godmothers in Serbia who have been glued around the city by your coalition partners. Then how can you look them in the eyes, and ask them, so wait if it's going in order so you're up, Mr. Dinkic, Gilas is only the third. It's their posters. We need to remember these things. I don't want to mention that suit, that's what I said on Friday. Mr. Ilichu, you're wrong... (President: Mr Stefanovic, not directly, please address the MP and slowly return to the topic. Really, with all due respect, you can't give a categorical thought about how you brought it here. You said, "You have no idea." I worked in the IRS. And you've been doing it the fifth time. And we really didn't want to answer. If you were so good, why didn't Dinkic keep you but bring in that Slovenian? What did that Simic bring? To figure out ways to take people's money, in the unreformed tax system of this country, in a destroyed completely economic environment, where you predict the possibility that evil mayors, of course not from your parties, are offered where they no longer have to give money for the road, for the sewerage, for the plumbing, apply what you generously offer them, which is, to kill their citizens in terms of the concept. It's the height of political cynicism, it's a scam that won't work for you, and that's what DS won't shut up about. You continue to deal with Dragan Gilas, he has received the upper hand of the citizens of Belgrade, and again, if he decides. You just fantasize forward, just tell your empty stories and build your fake elephant towers. Of that, gentlemen, there's nothing. Citizens know their wallets are empty. Because that's what Dragan Gilas did? Is that what the DS is for? All right, you yell at me, we'll see at the end when the balance goes off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17187	Thank you. Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17188	I'm really sorry that I demassed your imaginary bill. I'm sorry you're showing that you're a master at twisting words. You know exactly what I was saying. You speak second again, but it's your right, it's your culture, it's your way of talking. What is important, said MP Petronijevic – no single parameter has changed in this law, and for the citizens there will be no single dinar of a larger tax on property. And you, of course, are a master at twisting words, and about the story of some of those evil mayors, you can still change the thesis, say whatever you want, what matters to me is that citizens won't have a bigger property tax. The fear of Friday's people, with those fictitious calculations of 700, 800 percent of it ends up with honoring you, because there's no serious man you can show that calculation to believe in. At the end of the line, people will get tax solutions and they'll see. I said last time, there's no way the same law could cause someone to grow 700% of their liabilities and not increase property tax in another city. That means whoever decided to do it wanted to. It's simple, say whatever you want, the truth is that citizens won't have any more property tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17189	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17190	Mr. Stefanovic,...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17191	Mr. Ilic, please don't speak directly to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17192	What I'm saying is that the president of the DS parliamentary group is obviously in big trouble. I understand the problem that he can't defend DS policy because it's impossible. He can't even defend the mayor of Gilas, because that's impossible. The blackest social demagogy I've ever heard here from a parliamentary group of Democrats is being attacked by this law that doesn't really change anything about the burden on citizens, and it's amazing that you're saying again that someone is dragging their hands into citizens' pockets, and you know that your hand has never even come out of your pockets. Let me not mention "Agrobank" again, "Vojvodine Development Bank" and all the affairs that are open. I don't know how you can convince the citizens of Serbia and play SNS of a well-intentioned advisor, and here you are their biggest enemies, so you advise them – beware of the URS, beware of Mladjan Dinkic. Are you friends or enemies with them? If you're their opponents, then don't advise them. You obviously advise them as well-intentioned friends, or as opponents. Why do you keep telling them that? I only interpreted it as offering again in the coalition, to save yourself and save your mayor. In the end, just for a little while, as far as my direct and the time I've spent at the head of the PU, I'm proud of it. Here, take a look at my results, I think they've been the best since 2000 and they're back here, counting all the directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17193	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17194	He was injured by my conviction, Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Kovac, other political parties in this assembly had quite an understanding this afternoon, but you had Mr. Michael's warning 10-15 minutes ago, practically on the same basis. Nothing's changed in the meantime. To remind you, the amendment of the LDP MPs is under discussion. I have once again checked that we have not lost it by accident, although it is absolutely impossible, in that amendment neither Gilas nor the skin scratching from the back, nor the past, nor the Slovenians, nor the sonic, nor the demasking, etc. If we could go back to the amendment debate, because we already have enough shocking stuff. I've been waiting a long time to open this debate with the minister. How could he not have found out for the weekend what his tax system looks like in certain parts of this country? This is important for those five million and three hundred thousand citizens who are not so fortunate to live in Belgrade. I ask you best to keep an eye on the Rules of Procedure and keep the session in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17195	You're absolutely right, Mr. Guric. In that sense, I'm breaking up the line on this subject. I give the word to Mr. Bojan Đurić, who's next in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17196	If I'd known you'd do it, I believe, and without my intervention, maybe it wasn't necessary to advertise the Rules of Procedure. That's the most shocking thing for me. This amendment to the LDP without any ambition to compete here who first thought of the citizens and who protects them most. It's already a great shame, Mr. Dinkic, done to this entire Ujdurm and around this law and around other laws. Absolutely the key to tax policy predictability. We'll agree with you and me and your associates and most of the people here in the O.R. whether we ran the tax administration or not. That principle that never existed until today with such a change of law, passing the laws quickly, with the whole circus we had last week, the weekend changes were further ruined. It is a key problem, a financial problem, and then a tax and budget system in Serbia. The other thing that's shocking to me, I've already told you something about it is that you, for the weekend after the assembly debate, approach the analysis of one part of this country itself. I'm sorry, I have to note with an obvious political ambition that you're leading a part of your war with one of the political parties, which we're not interested in at all, and that only then do you realize that someone did or didn't, you say -- did not respect the law. When you did it for the weekend for a million or two million people living in Belgrade, how you didn't arrive and do, for example, hundreds of municipalities where, for example, the URS in power or some of the other political parties in the ruling coalition. The third thing, when you talk about Belgrade, I remind you that there are in power in Belgrade and some political parties with which you participate in the republican government and create, among other things, these laws, let's say, the United Pensioners' Party, the SPS, seems to me as well. So what is true of those you object to is true of other political parties, or is that not what you think? I know you don't think that, because when you object here what was adopted in the last term, you forget that 20 and several of your MPs voted for something like that. These aren't the first scandals about amending the property tax law. You've made them in the last term, along with your coalition partners, at least twice. First, you wanted to introduce a revolutionary amendment to the Property Tax Act. Then you all estimated that the elections were too close, that it would be unpopular to raise the amount of tax on property and made that solution possible, which Gilas was called upon at one point, and at another point and the vast majority of local self-government in Serbia, and you do so all the time. It's the same story as the profit tax story, part of that tax that stays with local self-governments, etc. When Mr. Ilic, as an experienced tax-law expert, says that this is a country that has a percentage of the lowest income rates per property tax, it does not say, Mr. Ilic, first of all, that these taxes are low, but it says that we live in an abnormal country, where the participation of some other taxes or revenues of a state that are not taxes, but are actually taxes, abnormally high, and since citizens are the largest part of their liabilities to a wasteful state pay through abnormal VAT, through abnormally high excise rates, through parafiscal burdens that are not completely abolished, and you know it well through a whole number of other burdens, then it is logical that this part of the property tax has disproportionately little participation, regardless of what level of authority he remains. And there's too much demagogy in this debate. If, Mr. Dinkic, so says Mr. Ilic, it was not your intention to result in an increase in tax burden, so in the meantime you re-introduce depreciation, it means that early next year or in the spring of next year, when citizens begin to receive tax settlements under the new law, it will be much less than it was this year, right? Is it going to be smaller or is it going to be about the same, or is it going to be bigger? We'll all be alive in a year, so we can assess it. Secondly, you can't change between Friday and Monday the basic Racio changes you're proposing. On Friday, you told us that depreciation is already included in the market, i.e. the purchase price that is being stimulated on the market. It's obviously not like that anymore today. These are conceptual things, Mr Dinkic. It does not depend on what Dragan Gilas is and what any other mayor in Serbia is like. You have to have a tax system that is fundamentally fair, essentially predictable and that encourages the most efficient use of capital, property, ideas etc. I don't think Mr. Petronijevic understands that. Maybe people wouldn't hold property for five or ten apartments if there were market conditions that they use their capital in a more efficient way. No one is in the 21st century by nature a renter. People are entrepreneurs, only this government, as well as some previous ones, not to be entrepreneurs, so it's easier for them to have real estate. I agree that the state should first, whether that word is now allowed, to skin off its back or to drastically tax those who are unrecorded, etc., but let's let the first state go from itself. Since there are thousands of properties in this country in these companies of yours, which are 15 years in restoration and none of them pay any tax on it, not taxes, not contributions, not any commitment, so there's no money in the budget. When the state starts paying tax obligations on what it really is, even though you're faking a senseless name of social property without the rightful owner, then justice for those who have 700,000 or a million unrecorded properties. Next time Mrkonjic, Ilic or anyone else comes here to cheer citizens up about how 100 euros can register their immovable property, then tell them the next step is to introduce a drastic tax on it. It's not true, Mr. Dinkic, that you've made changes, or amendments, that have been submitted in the meantime, all practically back to the old ones, which seemed to me, at least according to what I heard, to use your Friday formulation from the press, which was your formulation. The press is writing reports. It is not true that everything is returned to the past, since other than Article 5, which you have changed, or old Article 5, of Article 3 of the Law, there are some other members. It won't be the same article six as it was. He used to have two attitudes. You've made changes and he'll have nine views. There was no average market price, there were no border areas. When this law applies, people living on the edge of some small municipality near Kruševac or Nis, where there is no traffic of immovableity, Mr Dinkic, where you won't be able to determine the average price, will pay the price at the average price in the next zone, or next municipality, where perhaps there is a new settlement, where the state may have decided that last year or last year, or in recent years, it will be a dunce, so that the wall of the settlement "Stepa Stepanovic" etc. How many of these people are gonna get hurt? So they have dead property, they can't sell it. No one where they live sells property, and you will then tax their property at a market price in the next block of new buildings, where 50, 100 or 150 apartments were sold, at 1300 euros in price. Is that a fair tax system?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17197	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17198	I absolutely agree with you that tax laws must be predictable. I already told you when I had my presentation on Friday, we in our initial draft law did not exclude depreciation at all. Then it came to that law the opinion of the Fiscal Council. They said there's no need to have depreciation if you have a market. The market will regulate whether the apartment is old or new, by regulating it all for the old apartment as a lower market price, for the new higher and the market. If I hadn't met on Friday with the demagogy of a parliamentary group, I wouldn't have changed this. That's what I said in the discussion on Friday. It's not spite, it's just a wish that someone who has no good intentions tomorrow imposes an obligation on the citizens and then blames someone else who has nothing to do with it. That's the only reason I didn't normally accept the fiscal council's opinion. All the other opinions of the Fiscal Council, which they gave regarding both the state of the budget and the state of public finances, you heard me respect myself. I believe that the adoption of the law needs to be consulted by the professional public. However, against this demagogy that spoke of some 600, 700, 800 increases, no other parliamentary group of the opposition has said – people, you are not telling the truth. Why didn't you say that yourself and your MP group then? If demagogy prevails, of course those who want to respect expertise must withdraw. Demagogy can eat that expertise, you know it and it's happened throughout history, especially this was so banal that it was very easy to determine that this 700 was invented, 800 percent. From the very beginning, it was made up. That's why I finally decided on Friday not to respect that opinion of the Fiscal Council about the Property Tax Act and to return how it is now in law. Now literally nothing has changed in law, and that's where I deny you, relative to the present state of affairs. What's done? This article that you mentioned today, everything that's written here in that article you quoted is otherwise in the Finance Ministry Regulation, which is using local self-government today. We felt that we needed to be transparent and that these things were not in sublegal acts, as is the rule, but to put it into law. None of what we put on is new. It already exists, but it was in the rule book, and now it's in the law, so it has a stronger weight, so it's more transparent and that it can't change arbitrarily because of the predictability that I stand for in the tax system, and that's the only thing. Finally, I'm someone who really wants to do well in all parts of Serbia. I'm a Belgrade citizen. I was speaking exclusively now about Belgrade, because this fake bill came from Belgrade. That's all. If it had come from Kragujevac, from Nis, I would have given these examples. So, we weren't checking out anything special right now at the weekend, but on this constructed story of 600, 700, 800% increase, I wanted to see where they got that idea from in the first place. How can he do that? It's just that we couldn't figure it out because we didn't get that bill, and then I asked for further checks on what was related to the case. Nothing else. That's the only reason. I repeat, no parameters in the Law relating to the property tax are changed after this adopted amendment to the Committee. That amendment was adopted contrary to the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which, by the way, I very much appreciate, only for reasons to avoid any demagogy and transfer of responsibility that we did not do so tomorrow. As for predictability in tax laws, you are absolutely right and there is no dilemma that laws must be predictable. That's why we're putting into the law what's been in the rules so far, but we're not changing anything, we're just increasing transparency.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17199	Thank you. Bojan Đuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17200	Mr. Dinkic, of course, a tendency to demagogy can very often destroy expertise. It seems to me that in the past 12 or 13 years the work of most politicians in this country, especially in the area of economics, from ministerial to governorial, unfortunately, has shown this in the most brutal way. It was mostly predominant to demagogy, and much less expertise in what they did or what you did. Another thing, most beautiful please, don't expect LDP to come to your aid. I think we're fair enough to say that you're not the only one to blame, but we don't think you're the biggest culprit for this, that the SNS and SPS are the bigger culprits. I would also advise you to seek first help from those with whom you have decided to build a government if you need help. Mr Dinkic, you had a choice in May and June 2012. You've made a decision like this and now pay the price for something like that. This isn't a war between you and the URS, it's not all of Serbia. Ask your coalition partners why they don't help you when you believe that someone else is attacking you in a unfair way? The second thing, about that logic that you've established, is then demagogue and those amendments that have come, say, from the ranks of your ruling coalition? One of these amendments is the amendment of Mr. Stefanovic, at least according to what I know, which you did not accept. Right? That's what you left to vote on in the assembly. Does that argument apply to them? They are demagogues; I cannot accept it, so let them bear the price for it? Please, if you were a politician who took all the advice of the Fiscal Council, let's say the ones in 2011, when they assessed your disastrous proposal for a fiscal decentralisation bill, today you would have the moral right to apologize for not accepting this one advice. Since you haven't done that, Mr. Dinkic, it seems a little cynical today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17201	Time. Thank you. The word has Dr. Janko Veselinović, a replica on behalf of DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17202	Minister Dinkic, again, returned to the principle debate and expressed several findings far from the truth. First of all, he said that, first of all, for emotional reasons or for spite, he had returned the tax rate to the previous level. How, Mr. Dinkic, can you, for emotional reasons, play with the fate of millions of citizens? It's about millions of Serbian citizens. I know you didn't put your hand in your pocket, or hand in the jam, but you pushed it by the SNS ministers. You're just a co-executor. The law and member were also voted by Alisa Maric, who I do not know what she has done in her area so far, Milan Bačević, better known as Channel Minister Bratislav Petkovic, Zorana Mihajlovic, Goran Knezevic... (President: Mr. Veselinović, please stick to the agenda and replica points and do not go any further. They voted for this member, and I don’t know what they did in their area. It's a serious matter, Mr. Minister, if for emotional reasons you punish citizens of Belgrade. It's a serious thing if you take the citizens of Belgrade, let's turn it into one house, take almost all the food from one family, and use this to give it to the boss in that house or one of the members of that family to fly and take that food for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17203	Time. Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17204	I don't know if you've been in this room or suddenly come from somewhere to listen to what others say, or say what you want, or what's written to you? Man, I'm a Belgrade citizen. What kind of Belgraders should I punish? It's in my interest for the Belgraders to be as good as possible. This law does not introduce any new taxes to the Belgrade citizens, to the Novosadians, to the Chacans, to the Uzicans, to the Senti, to anyone. I'm just saying that it was demagogy and a desire to show that it was going to happen, even though it's not happening in this law. I just don't know what you're talking about. There's no emotional reason for any change. I said that because of the demagoggy of your MP club, I did not respect the opinion of the Fiscal Council as a professional institution that I highly appreciate and we decide to remain what is still in the Amortisation Act, which is what we originally thought, so because of them, we removed from the draft that went to the government and which the government adopted, with their positive opinion. So the Fiscal Council has positively assessed all these fiscal laws. So I don't accept that any citizen of this country wants to introduce some new property tax, because this law doesn't. The property tax can only increase local self-government and 100% income goes to local cash registers. It's just, you're talking about what I'm saying, not like you haven't heard what I've been saying all along, so she's telling your story, which is obviously, I don't know how you got to her and I don't want to get into it. It's just, let's talk -- it's not deaf phones and we need to talk and talk about what I'm talking about, not twisting my words.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17205	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that in this whole discussion that's been going on for about 40 to 45 minutes, it's as if there are no MPs sitting in the Assembly. That's the feeling I had. Does one of the MPs know to tell me what a local self-government unit is and why it's called that? The unit of local self-government is a territorial part of the Republic of Serbia, but has its independence in making certain decisions. It is not in the hands of any mayor or president of the municipality, but the assembly of the local self-government unit, where our fellow councillors also sit. And let's get this straight. The Republic also gave jurisdiction to local self-government by its special laws. Some responsibilities are original, some responsibilities are entrusted. They also provide forms of funding for local self-government, so some areas of funding are original and some are also entrusted. The Republic of Serbia has set a range for trusted revenues and original ones, within which units of local self-government can use them. When you talk and cry about the property tax, I can say that the property tax is small in underdeveloped local self-government because it's small and valuable property. You can buy a house of 300, 400, 500 square meters for 10 to 15 thousand euros and there's no other basis to be given to it. These units of local self-government are at least funded from the salaries and earnings of employees, as having more employees and property would be higher. The value of the property would be higher. Also, such units of local self-government are the most funded from... (President: Time. ) Can I proceed to the amendment if there is no time?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17207	You can't now, since I have more logs before you do. The word is Janko Veselinović. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17208	The chairman, please remind Minister Dinkic next time not to address me as "man". I am a National MP to him, as he is to me a minister, although I am not glad that he is still a minister, but I do not insult him. Once again, let me try Minister Dinkic to explain what he hasn't heard or heard for days, but he won't admit that he was wrong along with the SNS ministers. So you took local self-government, thus reducing Serbia's income tax to local self-government. He was used for kindergartens, schools, etc. Instead, you suggested in your imperial provision that instead they could tax them, they actually have to tax their gardens, everything that belongs to those gardens. Now, of course, you've lifted their depreciation. Now you've made it possible for local self-governments to tax their citizens, to make up for the serious hole that was created by taking their income tax and now you're saying that you haven't changed anything about the property tax. How could you not? How will they survive? How will citizens in these municipalities, local self-governments, be exempt from Belgrade, survive without that profit tax, which you took to patch up your budget hole that you made by spending money for purposes that you did not, by all accounts, promise in the election cycle? That's what this is about, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17209	Thank you. Next reported is MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17210	By amendment. This amendment speaks of the fact that the basis of the tax on property for the immobility of a taxpayer who does not keep a business book, the value of immovable property is regulated in accordance with this law. The value of the immovable property, of course, determines the local self-government that tends to collect, control the original incomes of the unit, means the execution of this. I want to ask, under Article 91. The constitution of tax obligations and other taxes is general and is based on the economic power of the taxpayer, how will the tax be charged without being contrary to this provision of the Constitution if some taxpayer is not in a situation, is not in economic power to do so? How will the economic power of a farming household be assessed? Let's assume we've now released the payments of 10 acres of land, but we haven't freed the country's household to get to the sheds and the rest, wells, pay taxes. It will, of course, be paid taxes on sheds, wells and everything else, since the amendment you adopted does not only pay taxes on 10 acres of land, but all buildings, both residential and auxiliary facilities, are paid taxes. That's what's left. Mrs. Bisic, such an amendment was proposed by Dusan Petrovic, whose adoption you adopted. How will a tax be paid on that if a rural household, which can barely make ends meet, is unable to pay the tax? How the tax will be charged to him and whether the mandatory tax charge will be contrary to Article 91. The Constitution, where is it said that taxes are charged only in accordance with the economic power of the obligor? Are you going to go to court for a mandatory tax charge? We know what that looks like. It's a list and a sale of movable and immovable assets. Will it be charged by listing and selling cattle, agricultural machinery, or by any other means? If you can, give me that explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17211	Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17212	No matter what your question is, it's not about the member and the amendment we're discussing, I'll answer you anyway. Generally, in the case of property tax, the taxpayer's tax force is not determined by his income but by the value of the property he owns and that is so in all countries, so it is in Serbia. Bigger property, bigger tax. Less property, less tax. What does that mean? The richer the pay, the poorer the less. This second one. I repeat again what I said on Friday. In accordance with the law governing agricultural land shall not be paid any property tax. In connection with that, the income tax was abolished. Now agricultural land is also excluded up to 10 acres, not just city building from the base, and all objects that have nothing to do with agriculture if they are larger tax, if they are unrespectable, are a small lower rate. Nothing different than what's happened so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17213	Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17214	We have a registered agricultural household in accordance with a law that works that way. I was talking about agricultural households where someone is employed by a company, private or state, completely irrelevant, and where income is made and based on it. How will it be considered what's mostly? Is this going to affect that it is a registered agricultural household as it is done in the Agriculture Act and that the tax base will then be established and that in this situation they will be exempt from paying taxes or not, because we have a lot of situations in suburban villages where people are holding cattle, they are engaged in agriculture, but at the same time working? How will they be treated if it is not their primary activity, since social and pension insurance do not have as farmers but as employees? How will heavy or primary activity be treated? That's one question. The second question, below 10 acres, is not just about the land, but we're talking about the facilities on the ground that serve agricultural production, not about the residential facility where they live. Will the well found here be subject to taxation or not? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17215	The next registered speaker is MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17216	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I said in my first presentation, I have listened to everything here, especially when it comes to property tax and so on. care for Serbian citizens in some of the former regime's parties. First of all, I would like my colleagues to read to me any budget of the local self-government unit to fund kindergartens and schools from the citizens' earnings tax. Let's have someone at least one budget of local self-government bring me and convince me to do it. The budgets of the local self-government are being created as well as the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's the same methodology. Why are you scaring the citizens without any need? I can also say that the presidents of the municipalities spend it on car purchases and representations, on hiring some artists that no one has seen, and we'll talk about bridges later. We've got time. The budget hole was not made during this government but during the government run by Mirko Cvetkovic. A black hole has been made among Serbian citizens in the economy, economy and public finances, a space black hole. So that argument is definitely out. What's still surprising is how you don't know or pretend that someone doesn't know the system of funding local self-government. Local self-government units are mayors or representatives of municipalities, but the tax policy is led by a local self-government assembly unit, where committees and local self-government are sitting and depending on how their tax-based local policy will lead to elections and such a proportionate result. Also, the big concern about reducing the income tax on citizens belonging to local self-government, income, is often without reason, because the poor units of local self-government, undeveloped, do not have a large number of employees and are mainly financed from the funds given to them by the Republic, the so-called transfer funds. Where does the problem arise? The problem arises in rich municipalities and cities. It seems to me that this whole story that comes down, it comes down to such municipalities and cities, which have a lot of money in their budgets, which run major infrastructure projects. I was wondering why, for example, "Gazela" was not released last year when it was finished, and that was ten days before the Ada bridge opened? Because if they had let her go when she was really done, before the bridge opened on Ada, there wouldn't be too much traffic on that "Gazella" either. Then we come to the conclusion that the city of Belgrade has thrown 450m euros on a project it did not need infrastructureally. Now we get to the other part, this was just an introduction. How will these municipalities and cities that have so far had huge resources be able to compensate for this deficit? They can, in one way, increase citizens' property taxes, only then bear political responsibility for those citizens who will choose them in the next election, or start acting rationally with the funds they are also entrusted with by those citizens and the Republic of Serbia. If someone had acted rationally, that bridge wouldn't have cost 450m euros. A square meter of asphalt would not cost 25 euros when it costs 10 to 12 euros. He wouldn't take the asphalt off the street where he didn't have to and throw on a new one, to get something in the public procurement system that was hollow and empty, so he could take the money any way he wanted. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you have local self-government that has a large area, large territory, modest budgets and often have a far, far better result than municipalities that are territorially smaller with two or three times the budget. Here, for example, that's the town of Dog. There, precisely because of such domestic and rational behaviour in the past eight years, in 2012 under your media, under your antiquity, we have won power ourselves, while you need coalition partners as you rule in Belgrade. So much for when a man behaves rationally and domestically, and so much for being arrogant. You don't need to cry on graves that don't exist, only maybe someone will have to cover the debts that occurred over the years, but it's not the problem of this congregation, it's the one who made those debts. Only if you want to cry on the fates of arrogant, incompetent mayors and the president of the municipality who were successful just because they had as much money as they wanted. They could take as much as they wanted and do whatever they wanted. Or you will weep over the fates of pensioners who are getting harder and harder, so one law is passed because of them. Let's figure out what's important in this assembly, fate five, six, seven, ten maybe president of municipalities and mayors, even if it was one party president, or the fate of millions of citizens? The laws passed in this congregation over the past period allowed local self - administrations to go far, without any pressure on their costs. Smart mayors and community presidents will use it. Those who are not like that should respond to the citizens in the next election. They have the right to punish them for being incompetent, and after this Parliament, it is not for some to be privileged, to allow some to do whatever they want, but for all levels of government and for each citizen to allow equality, which has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17217	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17218	Mr. Arsic, either out of ignorance or out of bad intentions, presented a lie that could have been very easy for him to know. If he'd asked any mayor or man who works in local self-government, he'd know that the income side is the part where the income tax goes in. Whether this earnings will be a renovated kindergarten, whether it will be purchased some accessories, arranged a children's playground, or in some irresponsible, such as your local self-government, will be bought a luxury car, it's a matter of local self-government, but it's not possible to say it doesn't go into the budget of local self-government. It is very clear to me that there is an absolute agreement in this part between Minister Dinkic and SNS ministers and that it is painful to realize that the citizens have also recognized that you are pushing their hand deep into their pockets, and that unfortunately, in some future period, they will probably not have safe pensions or safe salaries. It became clear to everyone. That's why you're so nervous, Mr. Arsic. Certainly, the DS MPs, when they asked for a delay in the debate to read these laws and when we made 63 amendments in our best interest, we couldn't believe that virtually no DS amendment would be adopted. True, one amendment of colleague Gorica Mojovic was adopted,... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... But apparently, even those amendments that were identical to the amendments you accepted, you did not have such a political understanding to accept the DS amendment, but you have already revised it and accepted the Committee's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17219	Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17220	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after the results in Koserić, SNS has no reason to be nervous. The problem of winning Koseric was that while DS led the municipality, which has 290 million dinars of budget, it made 400 million dinars of losses. It's invested as much as it has, and it's not in charge of its own personal campaign and promotion. You know why we beat you as the proud presidents of the municipalities in Kučev? Because while you were in power, you spent so much money on toothpicks during the team, that we made out of those same pairs when we were in power, a bridge. You know when you'll beat us there? Never. At the peak of the campaign, when you managed to gather all the parties against the SNS, we received 47% of the votes, in May 2012, 22 committee members of 43. Well done. That's how you ruled and how we ruled. Be assured that this is one of the first progressive municipalities, but as such it will set an example for other municipalities, including the Republic government, as the state and municipalities should be guided, not as you have led. In every place, it's broken down and disintegrated, like it's not answering, like it's not the property of citizens and the resources that citizens provide. That's the problem. Don't complain. You can say whatever you want. The facts are one thing, your story is another, the difference can be seen. What do I do to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17221	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17222	I won't answer again, as SNS MPs, when we say that Serbian citizens live worse, that inflation is growing, wages are falling, production is falling, profits are falling, and only SNS boast is growing, when we talk about citizens of Serbia living worse, Mr. Arsic is talking about toothpicks. I'm not worried that the SNS is currently as popular as over 100%, as your media shows. I am concerned, like all citizens of Serbia, that the state of Serbia is failing with you. Living in your media was nice, and in the '90s it was nice on RTS and other media. Unfortunately, the citizens of your popularity, which you're building on your media, have nothing, only empty wallets and soon empty plates, if they're not empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17223	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17224	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, empty wallets were not made by the SNS, but by the DS that was in power, less or more, for almost 13 years. Not on any of our media, and I don't know what the media is talking about, because the director of the Public Service is the one you've chosen, you've been setting up, I don't know what media you're talking about, but we in SNS have never claimed that today lives well and that it's easy. Don't honor us. Likewise, as we are honest with the citizens, we will be honest when it comes to things that are not exactly contrary to the law and to those that are contrary to how a man who runs local self-government should behave. Yes, it is true, of the team owned by the municipality of Kučevo, during the government of DS, SNS, the management of the municipality made one bridge for the same amount. There are documents about it. Or do you want to talk about how the school scratches got off, so they set themselves up on their own houses? You want to talk about it? You want to talk about the fact that there's a father in a public firm and the only son employed? You want to talk about it? Shall we talk about what your authority is like in Dovec? I know best how they were when they were in power. You want to talk about it? So, don't accuse the SNS so much, we just want to make a fair society. Maybe DS will really survive that lustration, reform, I wish them all the best, but accept responsibility for what you did while you were in power. When you accept that responsibility, then you can carry out a genuine reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17225	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(2). - direct address of the People's Messenger to the People's Messenger, which is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. I can understand the anxiety of DS representatives. This anxiety is consistent with the election results, which are not the product of the media, our, your, their, but the will of the citizens of Koseric, who expressed their will in democratic and fair elections. On the other hand, what worries a lot more is the system of values. I can't accept that someone who's a doctor of law science doesn't know the basic postulate right, and that's that a man is innocent until proven guilty. And through the explanation of this amendment, we keep talking about the fingers in the honey and the fingers in the jam... (President: Mr. Grandmother, please stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here, one sentence only. ... Minister of the SNS. If the fingers in the honey or the fingers in the jam are known, the fingers in former Minister Dragin's fertilizer are known, the fingers in former Minister Dulic's cables are known, as these people are no longer suspects but accused. Please don't promote any values that have no basis for right or wrong in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17227	Thank you. I ask all Members of the People to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17228	I think what Mr. Babic said is more about him. So every time he has no arguments, he reaches for a period behind us. We could go to the 1990s in 2000. We could talk about their role, about ruining Serbia, about their clothes changing, about wearing suits at all, because before that they were in shirts with Vojislav Seselj, about ruining everything that was worth it in this country -- industry, young people who had to leave the country. We could talk about people who have prevented this country from stepping one step closer to the EU, people who have destroyed the morale of this society, which will hardly return in the coming period. That these people are giving someone a lesson, people who can't button their jacket now when they get up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17229	Thank you. The word is Mr. Babic, another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17230	I'm proud to button my jacket when I get up. What gave me the right to reply and what I want to say – if we did all that, if we ruined it, if we destroyed it all, what did you do for 13 years? Why didn't you arrest us? Why didn't you process us? Why didn't you hang us if we did all this? Well, for 12-13 years, you had the right to do something like that. That means either it wasn't or you weren't ready and able to do something like that. Whatever it was, as my colleagues tell me, you were busy because your fingers were in jam and honey.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17231	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll be back to work at 16.30. The first speaker after the break is MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17232	Good afternoon. We're going back to work. Since there was an amendment to Article 3 on the agenda, does anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17233	The Democratic Party has submitted a number of amendments when it comes to a set of tax laws and some of my colleagues have claimed that this is a certain contradiction that DS has several amendments, different amendments to certain members. I must remind you that we belong to a party of free-thinking people and when we get such a harmful set of tax laws from the SNS headquarters and its assistants, of course, that our imagination must be and how creative. This requires certain inventiveness and requires certain efforts to infuse such a set of tax laws and force the government to at least partially alter harmful and wrong solutions. Since there is also the amendment promoter, I will allow Mr Konstantinovic to make a more detailed statement about his amendment, and I will definitely report again under these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17234	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17235	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, dear ministers, so we are still talking about whether amortisation is needed to determine the tax base for property tax on apartments or not. For the sake of truth, since we ended the morning by saying, the minister repeated several times – nothing changes for the citizens. I mean, that's just not true. If nothing changes for the citizens, then why do you propose amendments and additions to the law in the first place? Since you have proposed amendments and amendments to the law we tell you – and that much will change for the citizens of Serbia, which means that the tax will be several times higher than it was. So, it's not all the same, because if you wanted it to be like it was before on depreciation you would have adopted the amendment LDP, or DSS, or DS, or you would have adopted this amendment that you did not, which is practically the text of the previous, or the applicable law. What's the difference? We insist that depreciation must be included, or applied in the calculation of the tax base. You say that depreciation is not supposed to count at all, and that's the law you've proposed, and for the weekend you've changed your mind, so you said, amortisation can be considered, but it doesn't have to depend on how local self-government decides about it. You wanted to introduce a new tax. You wanted to introduce a tax on the plot, but you didn't bring it in because we were able to stop you from doing our Friday performance where all the opposition's parliamentary groups were unique. So you gave up on it. What changed for the weekend? That's all you have to confess to the citizens. But I think it's changed what you've taken and calculated the consequences would be passed by that law that you've proposed. We talked about 800% increase, 700%, 600%, you say that's not true. Don't repeat that it's not true, because the bill that was made in the Administration of Revenue is absolutely accurate. It's true, and I can explain why. Because you've raised a tax base. You raise your tax base by giving a real market price, only no one knows what a real market price means if that apartment is not for sale even if it is not for sale in the area, if no one will buy it. I don't know who's gonna buy so much real estate in Serbia when no one's got any money. When you changed the base and increased it several times, so of course the tax rate that is progressive for citizens up to 0.4%, up to 0.6%, 1% or 2%, leads to the fact that the tax is multiple times higher. I can specifically tell you about the Sava Venac Municipality on the case of an 80 square-square apartment. When you put a market price on it, you get someone to pay 104,000 dinars a year for an 80 square apartment, they used to pay 15 or 20,000 dinars. Let your team figure out how much that is, and I can save them time, 575 percent is the difference. So we've managed to stop you in some way, but obviously you don't accept the amendments to the opposition that are intended to protect the citizens and the citizens. Those who live in apartments, those who have nowhere else to live, so not those who have five, six, or ten houses, not companies, but natural persons, citizens who live in apartments. You mentioned a tax was introduced for legal persons as well. I'm asking you, why didn't you introduce progressive taxation for legal persons? Why do natural persons pay 0.4% to 0.6% to 1% or 2% and legal persons don't? Why does Miskovic have a house on the company pay 0.4%, and his neighbor who is physically the same house, on the house next door, should pay 2% of the tax? Can you explain that to anyone? You could have changed all that with this law, but you didn't want to. So once again for truth's sake I repeat, you haven't returned to the past, you've given the possibility of local self-government counting depreciation but not necessarily if it doesn't, which means we don't know how to charge taxes for 2014 in which municipality. There is no predictability, and this depends on how any local self-government in 2014 will see whether there is money or no money in the budget, so those irresponsible will reach for it. I repeat, to skin the back of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17236	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17237	We have not accepted your amendment because the amendment of the Committee is much more favourable for the citizens. So that's why you rejected this amendment you were talking about. The Financial Committee's amendment makes it possible to lower the basics more than what you're proposing. So depreciation increases to 1% compared to what you suggested, and you suggested that every year it goes 0.8%. So, because your amendment is more unfavourable for the citizens, that's why we didn't even accept it. As for your bill, the MP who spoke before you, he spoke of your imagination, so there's nothing to add.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17238	The word is Nenad Constantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17239	Surely it is not more favourable for citizens to leave at will whether depreciation will be 0% or 0.1% or 0.5% or 1% than to be legal, that it must be 0.8% per year of a certain apartment and certain immovableity. You're forcing citizens to face local self-government. With the same local self-government as your party does. So, you expect us to believe that you are increasing taxes here and allowing taxes to be much higher, and that at a place where you are also participating in power, almost all of Serbia's municipalities, that's where you won't apply. Wait, if you think that your authority at the bar, and thank God it's painted everywhere as well as at the republican level, it will apply, then why don't you do it now and say it – yes, amortization must be accounted for as it always counts. Let's limit the possibility of that tax growing several times compared to what was previously paid. Why don't you accept these amendments that allow taxes for endangered citizens to be less than for those who have the most money in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17240	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17241	We don't accept it, because a more favourable solution for these same citizens is what we suggested, which is that it can be more amortizing. If you're saying that the mayor, by your definition, is irresponsibly irresponsible, then we don't have the same line of philosophical thinking. I am starting from the fact that all mayors are responsible and will do the best for their citizens, if the law allows them to reduce the base by one percent per cent per year instead of in the current law 0.8%, I am starting to see that each well-intentioned mayor reduces the tax on those who have facilities, which are old. So if people live in houses that are 40 or 50 years old as they were built, each mayor will cut their taxes. I'm not starting to think the mayors are dishonest, I'm starting to think they're responsible. So we have the opposite view of local self-government. I believe that local self-government wants well for its citizens, and you obviously think that local self-government is the kind of people who don't care about citizens, but rather make some decisions that are in the interest of the parties they represent. That's where we differ significantly, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17242	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 3, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17243	Mr. Minister, we have also in the course of a principled debate pointed to a problem concerning these provisions of the law. The law itself, you've pointed out a few things that have been fixed, remains in many other things unspeakable and will create problems. One of them is the one concerning the determination of the average price and location of the property. It's simple, to tell the citizens that they know what it's all about. It is a problem concerning the determination of the average price in the environment where the traffic of real estate has not been achieved. Now, according to the law here, the average price will be applied in the second one, as it is said here, to the border zone, in which there were at least three traffic facilities. This can create great injustices in practice, knowing how little real estate is changed at the moment, how little change in the environments where the value of real estate is the way it is and can happen that such an environment where the small value of real estate is, is bordered by areas where the value of real estate is incomparably higher, in particular the provisions concerning which units of local self-government belong. Only there can be a difference in the value of real estate. Why would the citizens be affected for that? Only because in their midst they are not trafficked by real estate, that they pay an incomparably higher tax than they would justly demand. I'm simply asking you to pay attention and take a look outside Belgrade. You know, there is Serbia and outside Belgrade, and all we hear all morning is about Belgrade, how you're all for Belgrade, for parties, for all citizens to come to Belgrade to live and be here. So let's all of us who are not from Belgrade, get out of this room, pay attention to the small, poor environments that will be faced with this, and the citizens will not be able to pay and be amazed when they see their pay base established. So far, this has not been what you're introducing, Ministers, you're actually introducing one injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17244	The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17245	To continue this story that my colleague Palalic started, we need to clear up two things that are being run here today, and you haven't said it to the end, you haven't answered the question of how we're going to determine the tax rates for those households that deal with both jobs. They are also engaged in agriculture, and they are also employed in an enterprise and are not largely engaged in agriculture. They have a registered household, they do something, they have half a hectare of land, they live in the village, they have auxiliary facilities, they have some livestock, they have cattle, but they work in businesses. They're overpriced by what they're doing in a company, and then the way you've explained it, they'll probably be taxed by buildings and real estate, like they don't live in the country, and they don't have a lot of agricultural activity. On the other hand, you said in paragraph 3 that each local self-government determines areas by which to charge property taxes, and if there is no traffic in a particular local self-government, that is, in that area where the property is located, then the first border area will be taken, so let's say, you know very well the territory of Nis, the territory of the Palilula municipality in Nis is the border zone, the fourth zone where there is a new settlement in Mokranjcheva, where twenty buildings have been built at the most recent time and where traffic is quite large and where prices are quite high. A row of approximately 800 euros per square metre moves real estate in that part of the city, and the fourth area in which this settlement is located is bordered by Doljevac municipality. Some of the people who live in Doljevac, in the village of Knezica which is nearby and bordered with this area, want to sell their house, and the house has 200 square meters, no one in the village can sell anything, it sells it for 10,000 to 12,000 euros, how realistic it can get, but it will be charged a tax at 800 euros, because it is a real price in the border zone bordering the area and will pay the tax more than it has earned from the sale of that property. I think you really need to look at things like that and not let it come to being a drastic measure and drastic injustice towards people who live in small areas. This, above all, will hit small areas, because we know that in Belgrade and other developed environments neither cities nor municipalities will have any problems with property tax revenue, but the problem has small environments, although it is a percentage tax of local self-government, there is no traffic, there is no value of these properties, and then it is illogical to say, some mayors and presidents of municipalities, take care of it, because how they will earn income if there is no one to pay, there is nothing to pay. I think you need to answer our questions as to how those who deal with one and another's activities will be taxed, and there are huge numbers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17246	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17247	First, this question that you raised in the afternoon discussion, which concerns those who, as they are popularly called, are half-dominated or people who work and work in the city, and are not registered farmers, for them the way in which the property tax is determined does not change at all the current law. We haven't changed anything here. So, as it is now, so it will be in the future, there will be no change. As far as the questions you've asked are concerned, the law does not need to be given the opportunity to interpret themselves flexible enough not to bring about any unfair situations you're talking about. Because it's said that if there wasn't traffic within that one place, you can see not only the neighboring zone, but you can also see the type of object. It has to be the same structure, it's supposed to be space, it can't be compared to some new object with someone who's old. The other thing, it doesn't have to, if it doesn't exist, it has to be parallel, if it's a small place, if you mention Nis, the Doljevac can be compared to the Žitora, it can't be compared to Nis. It simply remains the flexibility given to local self-government to make decisions by their own rules and decisions, so as not to harm taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17248	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will vote in favour of the amendment submitted by the DSS parliamentary group. The main reasons are that the value of immovableity is determined on the basis of the useful area and the average price. Since I am the president of the NSS and I come from India, I cannot vote for such solutions under this law. Farmers at this point, at least in my municipality, are already paying two taxes on certain agricultural land. One is a tax on building land, and the other is a tax on the cadastrian base, which is being abolished. So we were already taxed for agricultural activity, and at the same time, the fields used for agricultural production were declared building land. With spatial plans, according to regulatory plans, half of the village's atolls were declared building land, with one goal only to make local self-governments collect as much money as possible in their own register. This law makes this situation worse. So, there are farmers who have five hectares of agricultural land, who, by the circumstances, are located in construction zones because local self-governments have plotted a building zone as much as they thought they needed money, so they will pay two taxes in the future. One tax will be on property, such as agricultural land, and this law does not prevent that agricultural land from being charged at the same time on a building land tax. If it's in a good zone, it's 1%, and I don't believe that local self-government, like Indjia, is going to miss the opportunity to determine the area as it suits local authorities. With me local authorities are also the owners of their private construction zones. So it's not hard to assume that they're going to vote that their zone isn't the first one, and that the one that's supposed to be second in practice, it's actually going to be the first one. In such a way, they will try to force owners to grant them the parcels they declare to be construction. Farmers who have five acres in so-called. construction zones, under this law, can be able to pay up to 2000 euros in taxes per hectare and not only that, on the same land that will be held as construction at the same time, they can also pay 0.4% of taxes on agricultural land, as they are now paid twice on the same land and in the future they will pay, but it will not be a cadastral base, but it will be a tax, or a tax on agricultural land, as a property tax, and on the other hand, that same parcel will be classified in a building zone where they will charge 1% of tax on property, or 0.8% if it is bordered, if it falls into that other zone. So we come to the opportunity that certain farmers, at least on the territory of my municipality, and I believe there are others, come into the situation to pay up to 2800 euros per hectare of property tax and I will simply support this amendment to delete or otherwise, I cannot accept such a law since I come from such a environment where we have already paid large double taxes on agricultural land, at one point as agricultural land, and at another point and five to ten hectares are found in the building zone, so that I cannot accept this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17250	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17251	As an amendment promoter. Mr. Minister, you yourself said that there would be an opportunity to account for land in Doljevac either by Žitorajja or by Nis if there is no traffic of real estate, i.e. the tax will be calculated either at the rate or in Žitorajja or in Nis. This, of course, opens the possibility, since the Doljevac municipality will want to fill the budget more, we assume that no municipality has enough money, especially a small and rather modest municipality such as Doljevac, so it will count the tax on the land at the price that is in Nis, which, of course, suits them. It is simply necessary to consider whether in municipalities or in units where there is no traffic of real estate, to take an assessment of the tax administration, and in this way to prevent any kind of abuse, manipulation of artificial price lifting, because the Republic, regardless of what you claim and this law fully returns property tax to local self-government, must in some way protect citizens and have a control function in tax enforcement. After all, the Republic sets out and determines who collects which tax, that's one thing. The second thing, what Mr. Risticevic was saying, is also a possibility for potential abuses by declaring construction zones. In our village, every village in Vojvodina has its own building zone on the edge of the village and there is paid a higher tax and more expensive land and equipment. It is simply necessary to keep in mind how to avoid some petty abuses that can lead to the very application of this law being compromised. We therefore suggest that you place this member as a control mechanism, that the tax administration assesses the amount of the base for the property tax, unless it was a property store in that one unit or one municipality in the year in that accounting period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17252	Thank you. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović and joint MPs Borisav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17253	The Honored Chairman, a virtually accepted amendment of a committee that is similar to the amendment submitted by a group of MPs and Mr Konstantinovic. However, it is not the same and it is not more favourable for citizens, but more unfavourable, we must make that clear. So, the amendment submitted by a group of DS MPs required that depreciation be necessarily an integral element of the tax billing, while the proposal for a committee, which was accepted, was said to be included in the tax account. "Can" and "must" are not the same and this is certainly more unfavourable for citizens, because every mayor, or local self-government, can first of all introduce property tax to citizens without including depreciation, which means they will pay a significantly higher tax. Why, for example, a legislator, it is also a matter of respect for the Constitution, is it a constitutional equality of citizens, why, for example, would a citizen in Ruma pay more taxes on the same apartment, the same year, than a citizen in Sremska Mitrovica? Why does the legislator, or legislator, leave the government in the hands of local self-government to create this legal inequality among citizens? Of course, when you took their basic income from the profit tax, that some self-government would have to introduce that tax, and of course some would not have to introduce when you in a special way, since you have a discretionary right, give funds from other sources. I therefore believe that you should have accepted the DS amendment which was very clear and which required the inclusion of depreciation imperative in the accounting of property tax. In that sense, we call on you once again not to create inequality among citizens and to accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17254	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17255	I repeat, this is just about a different philosophy of understanding decentralisation. And in tax theory, there's a term for tax competition. Namely, you said why a different tax would be paid by someone in Ruma or elsewhere. You mentioned it, I think, Mitrovica. Well, exactly the local self-government in Mitrovica or Ruma is responsible for building such a tax system that is more attractive to businessmen and citizens. If someone, if I use the term again, wants to tear the skin out of one city, it'll cause a move to another city. The same goes for businessmen. So it's the responsibility of cities and municipalities that the tax, which belongs to them 100%, offices as they consider it necessary, and citizens, if they are not satisfied with how local self-government works, change it in elections. It's the essence of decentralisation. Responsibilities are assumed 100%. That's 100% local income. If it's different from the city to the city, it's a practice in other countries, but if it's too much done somewhere, then the local self-government manager has to answer to the citizens by putting him in the polls.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17256	National MP Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17257	I totally understand now. So you're suggesting to the citizens that they move massively from one city to another, sell their apartments. Who do they sell to? To go all the way to Jagodina? It's quite clear. So your philosophy is quite clear. We have nothing more to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17258	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17259	No, I made myself perfectly clear. I said it's one option, and it's much easier to remove power that's irresponsibly raising taxes to citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17260	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17261	I'm going to use my time as an amendment promoter. I think we've now come to the essence of the amendment and addition of the property tax law. Finally, the minister said what he really meant. Yeah, those who don't have the money to pay taxes on property where they live, move out. Let them move where apartments are cheaper. So, if you can't pay a 600-euro tax on property in Old Town, you sell an apartment in Old Town, Belgrade, so move to another place or another municipality in Belgrade, where apartments are cheap. How do you think we're all gonna move out and move out? You have decided to change the demographic structure in both cities and throughout Serbia. So, in Old Town, Vračar, Sava Venac, Dedinj will live only Miskovic and his friends and acquaintances, who have the money to pay the property tax and they don't care if they pay 3,000, 5,000 or 10,000 euros. They don't care whether we pay 100 euros or 500 euros in taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17262	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17263	I listen very carefully to what you say, but please be kind, so listen to me. I just answered your colleagues that the easiest possibility is that, in case you have an irresponsible mayor, you simply replace him. It's a local tax. If he skins the citizens, change the mayor. If I have not been clear and concrete enough - this applies to every city in Serbia, from Užic, Piroth to Somboro, but also to Belgrade. If you have specified and said – whoever cannot pay taxes in the Old Town and Vratsar because the irresponsible president of the municipality or mayor raised him, then let the mayor and that president of the municipality be replaced specifically in the case of which you speak, because this law does not give any basis to raise taxes on the Old City or Vratsar. We didn't raise any parameters. So, you can raise taxes on Old Town and Vracar, I answer specifically, only if Gilas decides. If you mentioned Belgrade municipalities yourself, do not criticize me afterwards for constantly mentioning Gilas, he is the mayor of Belgrade, and that is his function, such as I am the finance and business minister. So, the message is clear -- if someone raises in these municipalities taxes, replaces the presidents of the municipality, or mayor of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17264	Replica, MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17265	We can repeat it a hundred times, you two. Simple and simple, you raise a tax base, because you change the way you calculate. And it has nothing to do with the mayor, you've given a whole new way of accounting, and you've given it an unreal and incorrect way of calculating, and it's like this: there's going to be traffic on some real estate in that territory, for example. in one street, and since new apartments are mainly being trafficked in the street, if you have a house, which is, like, a building where you have an apartment worth 3,000 euros, one that lives next door, in a building worth 1,500 euros, you will pay the same on the basis of 3,000 euros, because the last traffic was 3,000 euros square euros. That's why you wanted to cancel the depreciation. Well, it won't be estimated from apartment to apartment as much as it's worth, it'll take a little wider territory. We all know that new apartments in new buildings are the most trafficked, but that's why everybody else has to suffer. There was a colleague here who was very good at explaining to you what was on the edges of the municipalities there was no traffic, then it was taken from another municipality, from other grounds, which is three, four times larger. It's just that this way of calculating you're putting us all in a position to raise our property tax several times or 500%, which I've given you a very specific example of an 80 square-square apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17266	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17267	There's no increase in base. Only by a decision of a specific local self-government can that change. If you're laughing, talk to your colleague Milivojevic, who told you while you were late that you were dreaming about Friday and made up what you were saying, including what you just said. So that's where the man said, you weren't there, he asked for a word to allow you to speak very gentlemenly. If he said you were dreaming, that's what I was saying, in some other terms I used. So we don't change the basics at all, we don't change the method of reckoning. There's an amortization left. Once again, ten acres of urban construction and agriculture are excluded. That's more than what it was. The depreciation rate can be 1%, which is even more than what is now law. It's just that you're saying what you are, not what you're not. The fact is that the city of Belgrade did not apply the existing law transparently. That's quite clear. What's going to happen in the future, I don't want to divulge, but the fact is that if someone wants to now pronounce themselves for what the law didn't apply, it's simply no place for you to, in that way, to deceive the public through untruth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17268	As more MPs reported for the amendment, I am obliged to read the order – Vladimir Ilic, Veroljub Arsic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Gorica Mojovic and Ljuban Panic. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Replica. On what basis are you looking for a replica? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: Minister mentioned me. Mr. Milivojevic, he did mention you, but he's not in a negative context. You have time, so when you speak according to the amendment, you can speak. You have no right to a replica now. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17269	Mr. Chairman, you have violated article 106, 107, and a member directly concerned with the right to a replica of MPs when it is directly mentioned. It is not on the chairman's authority to assess the qualification that has been presented. You know very well, Mr. Chairman. So, in this case, there was an interpretation of Minister Dinkic, bringing in a direct connection with the name and last name of my colleague Milivojevic, who is completely distorted. In that sense, we believe that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which you have violated, that MP Milivojevic is allowed to respond and show the state he is. I understand that you want to avoid the exchange of replicas and anything else that has nothing to do with the agenda, but this kind of thing is allowed by the minister, I don't think it's right and you were obliged to give the MP a right to the replica, given that it is most directly mentioned, given that other heads of Parliament are always using it and enabling them to do so. Please correct this injury and allow Milivojevic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17270	I'll read you the members, the replicas, so you judge for yourself if I was right. So, Article 104. - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his exposure... Please, he didn't expose you wait. The MP to whom the exposure relates shall have the right to replication. Now speak, if it is in the messenger, that I may not read. The President shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, i.e. the chair of the National Assembly. Therefore, I did not find that there was an offensive expression towards Milivojevic, and since Milivojevic did not discuss it, he could not misread it. Therefore, there is no basis for replication. There's no basis. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the first time I have reported to the Rules of Procedure as a People's MP and with great respect to you, as chairman, I very much respect how you do this job, on behalf of all of us I would really have to point out once again that you have injured the member you have just quoted. Mr. Milivojevic spoke at the beginning of this session on this agenda point, and Mr. Dinkic misread and quoted his statement that you, Mr. Chairman, can check in the stenogram. He listed his name and just as Article 104 states, the minister misread it. Let the MP answer and say what he actually said, otherwise we'll have to compare the stenographic notes and it wouldn't be good, Mr. Chairman, to see that you made a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17272	I accept the risk that I'm wrong and you can ask for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be declared on the day of the vote. I still don't allow a replica. It's my right. Are you willing to make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure? So, in the voting day, the Assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17273	Look, Mr. Vice President, I'm calling for Article 27 and Article 32. Rules of Procedure, regarding Rule 107. Rules of Procedure. The fact is that the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and I consider that the elementary decency of each of us, especially if someone is in the position of the minister who is obliged not to comment on any other statements, and especially that he gives his structures what someone thought and said. In that sense, I believe that you were obliged at that time to warn Mr. Minister. True, right now, I can't be absolutely sure that Mr. Secretary represents the government's views or just his personal views. When we analyse only his resignation on the 5th point of the agenda, on the Committee on Finance, it is evident that he represented on that committee the position that was directly, the diametrically opposite of the government's position. In this regard, I ask the question – are other members of the government, including the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister, aware that here on the board, I expect, in what short time will we be able to be at the tide to see whether the same is being represented here by the government's views or whether individual views are being represented? In that sense, precisely because of this illogicality, I find it extremely important that every MP, especially when he is misread or when his statement is perverted, has the right here to defend his position. Your position not to give someone the opportunity to defend themselves, especially when his dignity and dignity of the National Assembly have been violated, I do not think it leads to good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17274	I'm still standing by the view that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. Are you asking us to make a statement about him? (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: I will not because of you. Thank you. Let's go in order. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17275	It is an amazing amount of cynicism and self-care and the need to defend the interests of citizens, but in a completely prosaic, funny way in the belief that citizens will forget what you did in the previous period. I have the impression that your party boss is not satisfied with the way you defend him, and now you're trying through different insinuations, refusing to face something that's real, which is legal provisions, and you're trying to cause some debate that doesn't make any sense, and that you're leading this session into a different course. You can't attack the minister at the same time for centralization and decentralisation. It's often explained here what's going on, what's the change of the law on the agenda. You don't accept it and I fully understand it for these very reasons. You mention poor citizens, you mention gardens, barns, wells, to cause some empathy. I don't think that's the way. If you wish, you have the opportunity, the minister is patient enough and very reasoned with you to discuss this subject. Let's exchange arguments, talk about the essence of the law. Chairman, please allow me to speak, MPs are getting it. Let's see if property taxes are big in Serbia. When you care so much for citizens, let's give concrete solutions and say who in Serbia pays such a drastically large tax? You're talking about which method is being determined. No mayor, no president of the municipality is anyone who will charge abnormal taxes against their citizens, beyond any order, norms and systems. Which president of the municipality is going to increase the tax 700 times? Not one in the world. As the market price should be, that is, the purpose of taxation. It's economic power. So you have a range of 0 to 0.4, so 40 times you can increase or reduce the tax. At this point, the rate is 0.4. It could be 0.1, so it could be 0.01. So it's just a matter of policy of determination. After all, the value of one object is not just its location. It is an important element. It's about the state of the facility, the state of the infrastructure, whether there's electricity, whether there's heat, so there's a lot of these factors in taxation. Be assured the Tax Administration rarely makes mistakes in assessing property on cargo and on the damages of citizens, at least when it comes to property tax. There is a great experience in tax collectors and there are really very rare mistakes, and especially mistakes when someone mentions 30.50 or I don't know how many hundreds of percent. It's not real, it's not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17276	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17277	We can't mate with you in any way in this kind of debate. The Democratic Party has already presented very exact, clear data, arguments the second day. You answer by mentioning one name and trying to transfer it to a completely different field, but I think the minister explained it effectively. That's the difference in the concept of decentralisation. The Democratic Party knows what decentralisation is, and you know it in the election campaign. That's the difference. We know that decentralisation is decentralisation of funds, so money, and you know that decentralisation is on the billboard, and then you come back and you mention things that have nothing to do with this topic. That's what everybody tolerates. It goes completely unnoticed. No one's responding and that's it. You think that in Serbia, when the entire ruling coalition, therefore, first of all, the SNS, stood by you with full power, full capacity, voted in the government of such poor tax laws, these laws came to the Assembly, you change them four times in relation to the initial version, not to mention a pensioner from Cačka, and then now and today is not known here in the Assembly what the ruling majority, which their amendments are adopted, are going to vote at all. You have a completely divided view of this whole situation. You from the U.S.S. are clapping on your leader, everyone else is quiet, and it's happening every day. The point is that you took your hand, Mr. Ilic, tossed your sleeve and put your hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens, especially at a local level. You've invented more modes on how to do that. Technically brilliant. You've doctored on these things for 11 years, Mr. Ilich, not you personally, but your party. Since you know all the secrets of that craft, you are the masters of that craft. Now you're telling us about how the mayor doesn't have to do it. Well, you did it, you introduced this robbery of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17278	Time. The Republic has Mr Nenad Konstantinovic as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17279	Ilic's colleague is wrong to say, and he obviously didn't understand us, that there's a funny and prosaic way of discussing taxes here. I must remind you, all of you sitting in this room, we are representatives of the citizens and we represent the citizens here and protect the interests of citizens, not political parties in the first order, in the first place we protect the interests of the citizens. The property tax concerns citizens, not political parties, and it concerns not the mayor, but only citizens. You obviously didn't understand what this law was changing. I'm not saying it in my head that it changes the way it works. Now you have said in your presentation – there are several factors that affect the determination of the base. No, we've been talking about this for two days. The proposal made by Minister Dinkic in the assembly has no more factors. There is only one factor - the market value for the tax base is taken, which is some value of some of the traffic that occurred in the relatively close past period. So the tax base will be unrealized. No more what the citizens know, there was some form of PP2, you all know, you filled in on traffic, so you write if the stairs are wooden or concrete, whether they have those scarfs or not, like you have in your apartment. You kicked those factors out of the law. It's no longer the basis for reckoning. No depreciation. It could be an old building 100, 200 years or a year, it's the same. You've thrown everything out and you want to apply the tax. That's what we're up against. Then at the weekend you realized it was a lot that there was no depreciation at all, so you said -- here's a tax administration can introduce depreciation, but it doesn't have to, so let the mayors decide, these same ones from the U.S.S., where their party chief is the finance minister. How can they not accept that?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17280	Time. National MP Vladimir Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17281	Obviously, we won't agree, or you won't, or you don't want to understand, but it doesn't matter. I'll look back at decentralisation. It's not just a question of how much money the Republic will give to the municipalities. If it's decentralisation as you understand it, then we agree. However, decentralisation primarily implies responsibility and the possibility for units of local self-government, municipalities and cities to create their own tax policy, of course within one given framework, and their economic policy and the way they will attract investors and the way they will operate infrastructure and the way they will build kindergartens. It's decentralisation, it's the independence we want to give to the municipalities. As for that famous hand in your pocket, which you already mention a dozen times during these days, all if someone tried to put their hand in the citizens' pocket, they wouldn't find anything because you emptied that pocket long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17282	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, then Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand what this is doing, the applicant of the amendments, or a group of MPs. I can't understand what you're not giving for the right of citizens not to pay taxes on property? That's exactly what you're taking away from them. There will be elections for the City of Belgrade soon. Here, we're giving you a chance to get your city council candidates, so the mayoral candidate promises to cut the property tax. Is that a question to you? What are you talking about? We give you this right, we give to all political parties, everyone who wants to participate in these elections. Why are you also preventing someone from saying – it will be an asset depreciation rate of 1%? Why don't you say so? Why are you stopping it? I would understand that you have submitted such an amendment, but in this case, you are more drastic than the legislator of this law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You may object, but that's right. Proposer says - from zero to 1% is depreciation. You say - 0.8%. The proposer says - the tax base is a zero to 0.4% coefficient, and you say 0.4%. Come on, somebody deny it. That's the problem. Speaking of decentralisation, give the right and those committees who are in local congregations, who live among those citizens. You know, we MPs have very little time to hear problems because of these obligations in the congregation. That's why there are local self-government units, and that's why it's called self-government, because they solve the basic problems of citizens, of life. And give them the right to say: behold, we shall go out to the congregation of the city, and to the municipalities, that the tax may be zero, so that it may be out of opposition. Maybe someone will accept it from the majority. This is how you started – multiple taxation, multiple rates, skin yelling with the back of citizens, etc. A good leadership, a good political coalition in local self-government can race to be better or worse. Are we going to restrict that right in the Assembly or are we going to give them the right to really participate in the political life of their local self-government, the right to decide, as we are elected, directly from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or from that territory of the unit of local self-government. I really can't understand this concept of yours, and I can't support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17284	National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17285	My colleague Arsic didn't understand what we were talking about. Not at all, fellow Arsic, the subject of neither this amendment nor what the Proposer has proposed. First of all, he's the promoter of the government and the Ministry of Finance. There's no depreciation in their proposal. There isn't. Zero. Nothing. There's not a single sentence about depreciation. The amortisation was lifted in the proposal, which the finance minister here explained on Friday and which the government supported. In our amendment, it is mandatory to include depreciation 0.8%. Of course. I call on all MPs in this room, if they want to protect the citizens of Serbia, to vote on an amendment that must account for 0.8% for each year of the age of immobility. That's how it's always been. It's always been like that. What you're saying -- it can be up to 1%, it can be, but if it's going to be, we don't know, there's no guarantee. You appeal to the conscience of local self-government. Maybe they will, maybe they won't. The amendment was made by the Finance Committee, not by the Proposer. That's what the Assembly Finance Committee did today. And if you know the Rules of Procedure, you know you can't change the amendment to the amendment. So our amendments have been submitted to the bill, submitted before the debate begins, on Friday, and now the Assembly Committee is trying to fix the matter a little bit, but it can't do it until the end. Please vote in favour of the amendment, to protect the citizens by introducing mandatory depreciation of 0.8% per year of age for apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17286	Replication or breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17287	Replica. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very well understood in the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure say, in Article 144, the final position – an amendment that is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and is accepted by the legislator and the committee responsible, becomes an integral part of the bill and is not particularly decided by the National Assembly. So it's changed. What counts is what is the proposed representative, in this case the finance minister and the committee responsible have accepted, it is counted in the integral part of the bill. What you're talking about doesn't exist anymore. It's been erased. There isn't. Next, maybe I'm a little longer. It would not be the first time that two amendments would be accepted by the same member of the law. Even at the same attitude. It has happened many times in the past, so don't take away the right of the people's MPs, if you want to take away the right of the councilmen in the congregations of municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17288	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17289	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, you have made two procedural mistakes. The first is, you didn't give me the right to a replica. I'm not mad at you. The other one is much worse. Some have mentioned me in a very negative context, nothing caused. You know, we didn't catch some here with our fingers in the jam. It happens, fingers in a jam. It happens, hands to elbows in jam and honey. But to get someone's head stuck in a jar of jam, that's already a serious situation. I need to tell you a few things again. The first is that we are not at a pre-election meeting here, but we are in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is where we face arguments. You don't have passive and forceful bystanders here to touch you, nor do you have a bus with your supporters, that will wave flags at everything you say. Here are people from the DS who have professional people in every place, and professional mayors, and councilmen, and MPs, and she had ministers, and the President of the Republic, and you have to respect that fact. You know, decisions in local congregations don't make the mayor. I am a councilman in the local congregation, and I know for a fact another 20 of my colleagues who, in addition to being MPs, are excellent committee members. The decisions in local parliaments are only proposed by the mayor, as well as by the president of the council. That's what my colleague Dragan Jovanovic, the former mayor of Kruševec told me. Speaking of Kruševec, let's see how we can take down when I'm not satisfied with the tax rates in Krusevec, how are we going to replace Bratislav Gasic from the SNS? Am I going to call G17 plus to help me with this job because I'm not happy with taxes? I won't, because you didn't cross the census into Krushevec. Then let's talk about Belgrade. There's no shame in losing the election to Dragan Gilas. You have to accept that. It's no shame. It's no shame and don't cross the census. That's what's happening. Again, if I'm not satisfied with tax policy the next day, am I going to change mayor? It's much better to break this law. We just found one potential partner who won't vote for this bill. There's still very little to figure 126. I appeal to your conscience. It's much better to break the law, and it's much easier to bring down the government, and some people don't think it's the first time they've ever shot down the government. Therefore, I appeal to you from the ruling majority, think as citizens. First, let each of you wonder if he paid his taxes. I ask 250 MPs have they paid taxes for not running 2013 because no solutions have arrived last year? Let's ask the press to check it out who paid the tax, who didn't and whether they could pay the tax. Let's get right to it. (President: Mr Milivojevic, return to the amendment. I'll be done very soon. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ask the press and let them determine which of us paid the tax for the last year and who didn't, who paid for this and who didn't, and who among us MPs, who have the salary of 100,000 dinars, to pay taxes when they increase as much as they will, and then when you judge as citizens, with your wallet, then put yourself in the position of citizens who have a salary of 30,000 dinars, and ask yourself how they will pay the tax and then make a decision whether you vote for this or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17290	Mr. Ilic, is that a replica? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17291	I'll be in touch after G17 plus is mentioned. I'll be very brief and nothing bad, so don't be afraid. Indeed and now honestly, without any irony, I do know and believe that DS has many educated people, there are also honest people, experts and professional ministers. Here I agree fully with you, and I think of you best, about you MPs and the MP group. It is you today, along with the citizens of Serbia, who suffer because of those who were not in the previous period. And those of Agrobank, and of Vojvodina Development Bank, and of the King, of Leskovec. Believe me, it's not ironic, there are people like that in other parties. The problem is that at that moment you had the biggest responsibility for everything that was going on in Serbia and now you pay the price. It's got to be a while before it's forgotten. We're helping you make it happen, and I totally understand. But we have to get back to the subject and talk about laws, not go back to the past forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17292	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17293	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for an amendment from my colleague, Nenad Konstantinovic. I think and ask all my colleagues to think twice, and that this amendment should be accepted, because it seems to me that it is much better by law to define what are obligations, rather than to leave it to improvising and inconsistencies and, I say, to a good will, or conscience, as the minister and some of my colleagues, mayor of local self-government. Minister Dinkic says we do not understand his philosophy. I find it really very difficult to understand the philosophy in which it is said – it does not have to write in the law, we gave local self-government the opportunity to introduce new taxes and a new way of accounting for property taxes, but if it takes advantage of this possibility, especially Gilas, it will drag its hands into the pockets of citizens of Belgrade, he will be guilty because he is unconscious. Wait, so what's the possibility? Furthermore, if this is left to local self-government, let me ask the government, so is it not just on her side avoiding responsibility, but will say so – so it is local self-government, especially Gilas, because they have accepted these opportunities and laws. We've been listening here since Friday and Wednesday, when we had the first debate in principle, that the property tax would be part of the compensation for a new way of taxing on building land. Please, Minister Dinkic, who has just returned to explain to the citizens of Serbia, and in particular Gilas, to explain to all of us in this room how he will compensate local self-government for taking away part of the salary tax, taxes and fees, property tax, for building land he told these new taxes on salaries? Furthermore, says the minister -- we should be well-intentioned and understand his philosophy. So on Friday, the minister keeps saying that our data. which we had then and which we received from the Public Revenue Administration of the city of Belgrade, related to the simulation of the new property tax bill is not true, that we are lying. He also says that taxes on gardens, that's fine. That bill should be applied. Today on Monday, it's not gonna happen. We're re-amortizing as a possibility again, removing the house tax. On Friday, the minister told us that amortisation is returning to the law in the spite of Dragan Gilas. Now I don't know if we have any new proposals today, which through the amendments of the Committee, which through the adoption of some amendments, because the minister has received a new reckoning, let him tell us whether his reckoning, or whether the effects of the Property Tax Act, are consistent with what he told us on Friday, or whether it's some new account, which is somewhere between ours and his old figures, or from spite. I really don't understand what's worse, and is it greater improvisation and inconsistency to change from today to tomorrow some billing and claim it's because it's against demagogy and against Dragan Gilas or say it - I'm changing it out of spite, so say, no, I have no emotion? We've been arguing for shipbuilding all day Friday. There isn't, there isn't. When we showed that it existed in the budget, then the minister said -- the government made a decision in January to remove it. Well, you don't know what's worse. Does the Minister not know what the Budget Act says or what the Government is changing the laws adopted by the Assembly? So it's really hard for me, with all my desire to be well-intentioned and to understand philosophy, to call it different than improvisation and inconsistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17294	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17295	There's no need to raise your tone. No serious man in the state business can do anything out of spite. That's nonsense. Well, you mentioned that term "inat" on Friday. I didn't want to report to any of the MPs' remarks, because then I resent answering everything, not letting the MPs speak, etc. You know what's said. I know it's forbidden for the minister to say anything to the MPs, because MPs can do anything to the minister. It's okay, but I'm just saying, I just don't want to report any objections. What is quite simple is that the property tax is charged not only to citizens but also to businesses. There is a tax on property for natural persons, citizens and tax on legal persons. In one case and another, it's income to local self-government 100%. You have asked a question, and I want to answer for the public and your MPs that on January 1st, local self-government will be compensated for abolishing the compensation for the use of construction land. This fee is paid more or less today by legal persons only, and in a small number of cases by citizens. Basically, when that fee is lifted, the legal persons will instead, it will no longer pay, pay a real property tax. Why do I say it real? Because the property tax for legal persons, i.e. companies, is now unrealistic because it is calculated on the book value. Instead of the book value, it will be calculated on a fair market value. There will be compensation, not tax on property for citizens. So the tax on citizens' property doesn't change. Very clear, loud, simple, simple. The tax on property for citizens will not change according to the provisions of this law, but they want a tax on property for businesses. The only legal change in this law is a way of calculating corporate property tax. If it did, and it found the Fiscal Council, that according to certain municipalities, tax on property for enterprises could not compensate for the loss of the abolished fee for the use of construction land would be given the opportunity for these cities and municipalities to introduce an additional special communal tax so as not to have a loss, but that municipal tax would also be charged to legal persons. What does that mean? If a municipality has had a fee to use construction land of 100 dinars, the hundred dinars will no longer have since January 1st next year, instead it should introduce a tax on legal persons at fair market value. But if the practice shows that this will result in 80 dinars instead of 100 dinars, the idea is to replace this difference with this special fee, which will be discussed with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities by the end of this year, because this property tax does not come into force immediately but only as of 1 January 2014. Finally, the whole other thing is citizens. Nothing changes for them. It stays exactly the same. Why did we react during the weekend? We didn't get any new accounts, but we reacted because of the unargumented debate of your MPs' club. You know for a fact that the Fiscal Council has been saying that through the market value of real estate we will include both depreciation. You claimed it would cause eight times the price of real estate. Although that is not true, I have decided to thank the Fiscal Council for that opinion for the item, although people are right, and to accept something where there will be no demagogy, which is that depreciation is done at a rate that is even 0.2% higher than in the existing Law. I repeat once again, and personally I will no longer appear on this same subject, for the citizens nothing changes. This law changes nothing in the tax on property for citizens. It is important for legal persons, but they are being lifted from a parafiscal charge, which is a compensation for the use of construction land from New Year's, and since New Year's, it has been moving with a new way of calculating property taxes. It's the only fundamental change in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17296	Replica, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17297	Mr. Minister, thank you for your extensive explanation, but I didn't ask you this at all. I asked you two things. Do you have a new calculation of the effects of applying the property tax? If you couldn't have otherwise, you could have taken your own tax solution and looked at how your own home tax would have been reflected by the application of this law, i.e. by applying the market value of the apartment, by calculating the depreciation of 0% or 1%, etc. So you have not answered me – do you have a new account in the possible effects of this law? The second thing, I listened to you for two days, now for the 50th time, that the property tax would compensate for what was compensation for city building land and that it would now remain local self-government. I didn't ask you that. I understand that. I'm not that stupid. What you didn't say, and what I asked you very clearly is – what will you compensate for, since the property tax compensates for building land, local self-government already abolished taxes and fees? But taking away part of the salary tax and taking away the real estate tax. You explained all this nicely, and you didn't answer this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17298	MP Cedomir Protic. Just sign in, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17299	Mr. Minister, it's hard to accept this kind of explanation. Teached by what's in the field, you have a good idea of deciding the municipalities. But I don't think that's good. Three years ago, I paid my taxes on my house 3,500, now I'm paying 12,000. You have abolished one law or regulation environmental tax on car registration. I got 3,000 to pay my environmental tax on the apartment. What did you set me free? Nothing. They don't do that to the municipalities, I'm talking about my community, which she hates me or the citizens, the poor municipalities will all do that. Secondly, the assessment of my assets is very important. Who made the assessment of my house, where I have an apartment upstairs of 60 squares and a place on the ground floor of 50 squares? They asked me if they had parquet, if they had tiles, I said everything they had. My house is estimated at 150,000 euros. I sell it to them for 100,000 euros. What was she estimated at 150,000 euros? For a bigger tax. If it were one professional body, it would give some real value. That this is exactly what I'm saying, there's a three-bedroom apartment in my municipality that's not over 20, 30 years old, for 28,000 euros. It's not a private private, so let's say, he cut the price for paying a tax. All those apartments bought facilities, couldn't tax evasion. What you do not specify by this law, do not hope in the municipalities. My municipality, you know earlier was up to 60%. Some community, I saw, I read, it increased 10, some 30, my 60, just in case. So, if that's a little bit better, more specifically from here, I'm sure it would be easier for all of us on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17300	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17301	Dear Chairman, Article 27. Please stop this charade from discussing a set of tax laws. It is clear that Mladjan Dinkic and SNS do not have a majority for a set of tax laws that will deprive Serbian citizens of 26 billion. The Serbian Progressive Party submits an amendment that the government adopts... (Chairman: Please, by what member? ) Pursuant to Article 27. So, the government submits an amendment, a assembly committee that makes MPs of the ruling majority do not adopt that amendment, we have heard that the SNS MP will not vote for this law, and your PUPS MPs will not vote for this law. Stop this session, there is no majority for these Dinkic laws. Look who's voting. The Socialist Party of Serbia didn't even come to this session. There's not a lot of them. Stop this and give the laws you have most of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17302	First of all, I have to tell you that you have improperly exploited the advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Whether this law will pass, it is not mine that I, as chairman, decide on this and interrupt the session on the basis of the debates of the MPs, but will be decided by the MPs in the day of the vote. So, I don't think he's hurt, I don't have to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure at all. Please make sure that in the future, when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you make an effort to use some other member. This time I'll get over it, but let's face it, to be as correct as possible. Do you want to take down the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17303	I want to say that the Rules of Procedure must respect the dignity of this assembly and I want to say that the truth must be spoken. So I don't owe it to you, it doesn't occur to us to get into polemics. Please, just record that the SPS MPs are here and that the lie is not present at the session. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17304	Okay, Mr. Petronijevic has advertised in terms of the dignity of the Assembly and I think he's right. Cedomir Protic, do you want a replica? (Dedomir Protic: The Lord said that I said on behalf of the pensioner that we would not vote. You have no right, Mr. Optic. There's no lineage on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to the chairman and you realize it once and for all. When it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, I am, in this particular case, that person, the person, whatever you want, who hurt the Rules of Procedure, not the MP. The MP has the right to say what he wants, and it's mine to take care of it and not let him say what he wants. As far as I'm doing it, that's another problem now. It is now Ljuban Panic, so Judita Popovic and Dejan Radenkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17305	Dear Vice President, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, that's the dignity of the Assembly. My colleague didn't advertise that member. I would ask, for the sake of the public, the SPS MPs are in the O.R. and participate in the debates, only constructive, not some pointless and pointless attacks and accusations for collecting some petty political points that I do not know how much they can bring them, to serve such lies, that the SPS MPs do not participate in the debate. I guess because of their problems, within their own party, they don't see beyond their noses, so I now call them so loudly, publicly to see us and to say that we are here in the hall and that we will never participate in such pointless discussions in which they have participated for days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17306	I think you're right, and the pictures and words prove that the MPs of the SPS are present, part, not all of them. The word has the People's MP Ljuban Panic, then Judita Popovic. Here you go. Please, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17307	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs, citizens of Serbia, would support this amendment by Mr Konstantinovic, as another in a series of efforts by DS lawmakers to prevent a rough attack on the standard of citizens and on the budgets of local self-government that the finance ministry plans to implement these legal solutions. There are all sorts of interesting things about not accepting this amendment, but I think it's one of the most interesting formulas that is that it's the easiest thing to replace someone in local self-government when there's not enough money to service the needs of its citizens. It's a dangerous and scary formulation. I call on you to stand in the way of such political behaviour by accepting this amendment, which is probably the finish line of something that you have called by transmuting local self-government. In fact, to be clear to the citizens, why all MPs should accept this amendment is very clear. The Republic of Serbia's budget is to be filled with 38.4 billion dinars per month based on an increase in VAT, and is charged with 30 billion. Based on excise duties, it's supposed to be filled with 20 billion, and it's actually charged with 15 billion. Citizens and citizens of Serbia know that every day they shop less and less, 15% of the traffic has dropped, and you can find domestic goods on every market and market. The solution to this is to remove 26 billion dinars by local self-government, to transfer responsibility to them by not accepting this amendment when it comes to amortisation and to defending it with a very interesting formula that it is the easiest way to replace local government when it does not serve the needs of citizens. Then I ask you, from the largest parliamentary group and other largest parliamentary groups of authorities -- if these data are true, and they are official, that the hole in the budget is 87 billion dinar, and that this budget, together with 10 billion euros in investment, is announced as light at the end of the tunnel, how difficult is it to replace the finance minister, who is obviously not capable enough that, several months after the first budget he has made, he will fulfill everything he has said that he will bring these budgets and tax laws to Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17308	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is what a debate looks like when there is no real public debate about such serious laws. So these are tax laws, six tax laws that directly affect the existence of citizens, local self-government and AP Vojvodina. This is what a debate looks like when the law arrives in less than 24 hours in the congregation procedure, after it was adopted by the government. This is what a debate looks like when the debate in parliament realizes that they are not really good solutions proposed in the bill's proposals. Three parliamentary groups, DSS, LDP and DS, have submitted identical amendments to this Article. Apparently, the opposition about it is absolutely unique, that there are problems with this Article 3 of the law in question. Whatever the weekend, the minister realized that something should change about the annual depreciation of the property value, apparently he did not give up the adopted concept, which is that in some ways local self-governments would have the possibility to collect some of the lost income, which would clearly exist if the legislation on income tax was passed. So in one place you take away, and on the other you leave the possibility of giving. What does this amendment mean for a member of the 3rd Financial Committee in question? This means that local self-government simply will not have the opportunity to avoid that possibility of either being depreciated or not being introduced at all as a way to make it easier for citizens to pay real estate tax. So, to give discretion to local self-governments in one lack of property, in problems with the functioning of a local self-government, when, during the fiscal year, something that is vital to the functioning of local self-government, you will allow, it is simply illogical. For this reason, that previous solution from the basic law and how it should be maintained. Just before you heard the vox popul, the gentleman from the PUPS explained to you how well he will, as the MP of the coalition in power, and how he will suffer the consequences of such solutions from this bill. So that's the people. It will be citizens who will ask themselves the first time they get a tax solution – what is it, the finance minister said there is no change in the tax on the immobility of citizens? It's not true. There's been a change. It doesn't matter when you have to count depreciation or when it can count. With your amendments to the law on income tax, Belgrade will, for example, be denied by 6.226.000,000, Novi Sad for 1,235,000, Nis for 686,000,000, Kragujevac for 405,000, Panchevo for 362,000,000, Zrenjanin for 309,000,000, Pozarevac for 242,000,000, Smederevo for 232,000,000. These are huge amounts that will and will be felt in the functioning of these local self-governments. What do we expect now, that they will take more care of the tax that the citizen in the local self-government is bound to pay on an annual basis? He won't give up that opportunity to at least sort of compensate for the money that will simply be impossible for them to make up with these tax changes. So, if you could understand, Mr. Minister, what does that mean when you say that you're going to enter into tax changes amongst other things and that there's a tax on immovablety, another immobility, and that the vice-prime minister is saying that it's not very popular and it's not meaningful and that you listen to the Vice Prime Minister and accept his suggestion? If you were able to listen to the MPs when we told you that certain things must be changed in this bill, but obviously you weren't quite ready to change it enough, why is the problem now, when it comes to the seriousness of this problem, that you don't change it and accept the suggestion of the MPs to the end? So ad hoc solutions are bad. Proposals for laws that have been handed over to parliament in this ad hoc form, I think they can only do much more damage than the damage that the Republic budget is currently in, and obviously there is not enough revenue in that republican budget. It is clear that the tax on citizens' property will certainly not go into the republican budget. However, there will be a great shortage if it is not enough for local self-government. The property tax is much harder to charge at the local level, it's much harder to actually realise, and while that income tax on citizens, you are very seriously jeopardizing from the vision of local self-government. Now you really expect this yearly immovable tax law to simply be applied in such a way as to satisfy both citizens and local self-government. It's just not possible. So it would be very good to consider whether it "can change" or whether you will really remain in this amendment, which the Committee has submitted, in this form and adopt as it is handed over. There is a huge difference, a huge difference because the existence of citizens is now and how it is questioned. If you are indeed listening to MPs, then you are likely to understand that the opposition over these essential members of the Law on the property of citizens and how unique and that the opposition is obviously joined by some MPs from the coalition in power. It would be good, therefore, to listen to MPs at times, and above all, it would be good to listen to the citizens because through us MPs and how the citizens of Serbia address you. So it doesn't matter if you leave that previous solution to the basic law, it doesn't matter whether you adopt this rather problematic proposal of the Finance Committee or whether you approach the real solution to this problem. So there's no great passion, there's no great politics, it's just a simple question if you're going to approach rationally this problem. You will be, Mr. Minister, the most responsible if you refuse to be rational in this solution to the problem. You've been a key man for more than ten years in running this country's economic policy. You are a key man, but you are not the only one responsible for all the good or bad that has been done in this economic policy. You also had members of the government beside you, you had main parties who had their prime ministers. It would be good to understand that you are someone who creates an economic policy, who decides on these serious issues of finance and economic issues, but that apparently others are distanced from these serious issues, others from your government, others from which you are today ruling. It's the easiest thing to stand by and it's the easiest to suggest or dispute. But you are the one who makes decisions, and so when you make a decision about this, think about who will actually execute those decisions of yours and who will suffer them. Therefore, you would do well to consider this Article 3 one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17310	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17311	We have submitted amendments to ask that this article be deleted because we believe that the solution in the original text of the law is better. In this way, the building land, forest land and buildings on that land are fully equalized. What has been our concern since the beginning, we have been trying to stay out of the debate between Belgrade and the mayor of Belgrade and all that is due to this moment, the tense political situation and everything else. We were interested in what would change in the life of an ordinary citizen. On Friday, you assured us that the proposed bill would not change anything, so that you would change two things at the weekend, which is, you introduced amortisation in tax returns and that's the first thing. The other thing is, you've lifted the house tax by 10 acres. Which means on Friday, what you were saying is now changed, and maybe this is what you're saying more in line with the fact that citizens will change less than on Friday. It's all because of the opposition's pressure and we think it's a good thing. Let's see what else we can do to make sure we don't lose those citizens that are so taken from, who will be able to pay a single dime of any tax. So it's not our goal to completely disable and disable and kill every desire to work, create and live in this country. Our goal is to make stimulating taxes so that citizens get something and are willing to give property taxes to see the results of that tax. In Friday's debate when we discussed the first day we said that the tax that decreases, the income tax, from 12% to 10%, will significantly reduce income to local self-government and that is an undeniable fact. You said it would be the property tax that would cover the income tax difference, for example, I will not take Belgrade, I will take Kruševac, Pancheva and other cities that are between 300 million and 400 million to be used for the development of municipal infrastructure. Now we've heard that the property tax should compensate for the construction land. So that difference and that hole in the budget that remains for tax cuts will not be compensated. We simply need to realize that this is something that local self-government will have to find its own way to cover, to rebalance the budget of local self-government and to adapt to emerging circumstances. It's something that's a fact, and it just doesn't have to run away from it, it needs to be said out loud and clear here in the Assembly. My question goes, since it's a lot to citizens, I know that citizens are you, legal and physical persons are taxpayers. You should see, the state has to show that it's willing to save, the local self-government to rationalize its expenditure shows that it's willing to make a savings for the income deficit, not to suffer investments, but to suffer various other expenditures, which are expenditures that are not normal. It's the organisation of concerts of various singers around the cities, it's not something that's necessary and it's not something that needs to be a way to waste funds from local budgets. The organisation of some events that are completely contrary to the very nature of local self-government in times of crisis should not be financed. What needs to be financed is what is in the best interest of citizens and legal persons, companies and factories that are opening up in that space. That's what our interest is and that's what local self-government needs to be clear at this point. As far as this law is concerned, specifically this member and what I'm going to ask, since this is where we're talking about what's going to be taxed, we're going to get into a situation where agricultural land, especially in villages and the surrounding areas, is being transferred to city building land. This will take place in villages, especially on the edges of the village, land that will not be detained for purpose, which will be run as building land. That's what municipalities and local communities do, they rename the country, and it's never brought in for purpose. You now have in every Banatian village tens of hectares in the vicinity of the village, which is a building land where special taxes are paid, which are never brought forward for purpose, and so on the new law which the Constitutional Court has now put out of force on building land, one hectare was that 25,000 euros costing a conqualification under the new law that was. This is Dulic's law, which the Constitutional Court has put out of force. Which is not entirely normal to be so much on the periphery of a Banatian village. What's the tax on that? It is simply necessary to bear in mind how many taxes there will be and how much of this will be applied to the citizens. What is clear and unequivocal is that under this law, whether as agricultural land or as building land, everything on that land will be taxed. So from the house, the auxiliary rooms and everything that's on that land. In some cases, it's been taxed so far, in some cases it's not. So that should be clear and that's what local self-government will do. In doing so, I am making a serious reservation that local self-government is in a position within the time limit within which you have left under this law, to make a list of all real estates and establish a tax base for every citizen. I sincerely doubt that they are able to do so until the deadline left by this law, which is until November 31st, until the basis for next year is established. It's just, I'd like reality to deny me, but I don't think it will, and I don't think the property tax will be introduced this year, not next year, but maybe since 2015. The next question - how will taxes be charged to how many citizens are unable to pay? And the Constitution itself says that it is based on the economic power of the obligor. If he says -- I don't have the economic power to pay taxes, I don't have economic power, and how are you going to charge that tax? Or how will local self-government charge? That's the question. What remains open as a theme to see which are still easier. You know the best thing that we can give to citizens in these difficult times and that in some way you can spread them out a little bit so that we can't get into a situation where we can't charge taxes, to get the citizens into a situation where we go into a mandatory tax collection and just, of all things, make one mess where the most citizens get hurt again, where local self-government will have to demonstrate force to fill so many budgets, so that they can survive and all in all, make one general impatience in a situation where only in Belgrade you have a significant increase in suicides during this year. In four months, there's been a suicide than it was all last year. Don't push the citizens beyond what they can handle in this difficult economic situation. Simply, it is our suggestion as a parliamentary group and as citizens of this country to try to adapt taxes to the given economic circumstances and not to be a budget deficit and to fill the budget deficit above the interests of individuals and individuals and citizens and the wider community, if we look at local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17312	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Marjan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17313	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as with the previous amendment, I have no choice but to support this. Just last time I was touched by applause from the ranks of the former regime. I don't think they understood the point at all. I am not voting for this law not because I doubt the current ruling majority at the republican level. So, since it's local income, and I live in the middle where they exercise power, for that reason which snakes bite and lizard fears. It is one of the reasons why I accept this amendment to delete members who speak of agricultural land, building land. I therefore support the amendment tabled by MPs from the DSS parliamentary group. I tried to give examples of it and how they understood it, and first of all because of the viewers, it's about the community I come from, which is the Indji municipality. So in that municipality they declared over three thousand hectares of building land. So, every village that has its cadastrian municipality, and only one has not, therefore, it seems to me that these seven catastrian municipalities are the total half of the agricultural land declared as well as construction. So far, construction land tax has been paid and tax has been paid on the cadastrian basis, which is being abolished by this set of laws. However, it is introduced as property, as possible property tax and agricultural land, i.e. forest land and building land. I wonder and ask myself, who will prevent such local self-governments that behave in style – what does the left hand see in the private right pocket? Who will prevent them from being built in future agricultural land as well and that local income administrations estimate it at 200 000 euros and that, in such a way, if you take it as a first zone and take those 0.4% on agricultural land, then we will reach a percentage of 1.4% of the land that is both agricultural and construction land, which is served by farmers and will never, in my opinion, become a construction site, in particular will not become half of the local self-government declared a building zone. Who's gonna stop them from doing that? So, elections and citizens in the elections are all witnesses that such authorities can, in a certain way, bribe the citizens and re-check the elections, in such a way as to channel some of the funds they collect through various streams to verify their authority as long as possible. I live in this environment, and so I ask this question, the following, if the immovableity is classified in this way, which is proposed by law, I'm just rightly afraid that one estimate will be by tax determination, and a completely different estimate, if we want to mortgage. And then something they estimate as building land to cost me 200 thousand euros per hectare, and there are farmers who have 15 hectares of land in such areas that are treated and agricultural and construction land, so, if local self-government with that local government remains, they could easily cover the tax and up to 20,000 euros, which on property, which on agricultural land, because there is no limit in the law that can prevent it, and if you want to put a mortgage on such land, and it is not worth 200 thousand per hectare, then that same tax administration would estimate it at 10,000 euros. Therefore, since the mortgage is double and triple for such land, you cannot get a mortgage or raise a third of that value. I would vote certainly for this law, only that one provision was imposed, that if one whose land is being declared as a building property in such a way, if he is unsatisfactory at the level of the tax, that he can, and that local self-government has an obligation, that if the owner of that land, which is both agricultural and construction, that if he has a desire to sell this land, at that price, that local self-government is bound, given that it has established it for building needs, that he is obliged to pay 200 thousand euros from construction taxis, how likely in my municipality to assess that a hectare of agricultural land, which they have drawn up by circumstances in building land, wanting, above all, to fill the budget of construction taxis, that in such cases, local self-government has an obligation, to buy out of the one who is not satisfied by the amount of taxes, i.e.e. the estimated value of immobility, mainly of land, i. My obligation is greater, regardless of which I can get the party regime, because I am from the People's Peasants' Party, in the election campaign we spoke, even with others, that there will be a sacred obligation to bring the village back to life, to defend agriculture, and by introducing double taxation of agricultural land as agricultural land, plus construction, and plus as a possible tax that has been determined in local self-governments, such as mine, can be determined, with this we are far from what I and my party have promised in the election campaign. So that's why I'm doing it, and it's not democracy unanimity. Democracy within one continent is the right to differences, and if someone has noticed the right to differences, then they should have seen, that this parliamentary group, and the ruling majority, have certain differences and that it is a reflection of some democracy, because each of us has the right to think with his own head and vote with his finger. If someone thinks with one head and votes with only one head and one finger, then he does not understand what democracy is, and in that case I do not resent their performances, in which they speak of some godlike crisis in the ruling majority, because certain MPs do not want to vote for certain legal solutions, that is their right and basic feature of a democratic system, to be different, even if they are different in a certain ruling group and parliamentary group. So, to be clear, what I'm going to do against and what I'm asking for the building land and agricultural land to be excluded, especially agriculturally, can't be built, and to be excluded from the basics, or that this immovableity is not classified as the basis for paying the tax of 0.4 and 0.8 and 1%, depending on which scale it's going to be used on us is a reflection of my bad experience, right with the parties of the former regimes that rule in my place, where they're just looking at how money is going to be taken, and they don't count on how money is going to be made, where the public sector is piled, and all of it is not growing, because it's just an effort, especially local self-government to take as much and fill the budgets. I see this argument in the Assembly as a fight over budget allocation, which will belong to local self-government, and what to the Republics. I didn't see anyone criticizing the minister, here, I'll be the first, which the public sector doesn't shrink, which we have 600,000 employees in the public sector, which we have less than 300,000 employees. First of all, I'm here to reduce the public sector to some decent number of officials, and then to discuss a possible increase in certain taxes. It's a great honor for the MPs, if I'm confused, who have had access to it in such a way, but mostly those who are local authorities are asking to fill the local budget as much as possible. Those in power in the Republic want the Republic to keep as much funds as possible. I think this law settles for both of us. I'd just like to see production grow and taxes fall, if that's possible. That would be my contempt for these laws. I support this amendment, since I have no other solution in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17314	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17315	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for some of us here to agree on these amendments and on this law whether or not the government or the opposition, to once and for all people who are in power understand that they are the government and that they cannot criticise a set of tax laws, and then vote for it. So you have to figure out which hemisphere of your brain is the opposition, which is the government, because such a separation of the personality of medicine defines in one unpleasant way. You have to go to the public and say, you know, citizens, we're the government, we've taken responsibility to rule this country and now, when we don't like something, we're going to play the opposition. I think it's a very dangerous and wrong way, especially knowing what the fate of these tax laws will be. I am absolutely convinced that at the time of the election campaign "Mr. Announcer" will write on his Twitter account – don't pay the subscription, we cancel these tax laws, this doesn't apply, I now realize that it's wrong and we'll do it nicely to end everything. It's not a good approach. If you're making tax laws just to fill the budget in the middle of the fiscal year, and when the elections get close, you don't seem to be able to pay, and here we feel sorry for you and sit down to cry in front of the government building, along with the citizens, it's not a good model of behavior. I'm asking you again if you're going to sew new leather coats, like 1944, 1945 and 1946... (President: Mr Milivojevic, please return to the agenda). Here, I'll be done very soon. I thank you for your warning. This is something citizens can't pay for. How are you gonna charge this to the citizens? I'm just waiting to define that answer from you from the ruling majority, to tell me -- we're going to charge it by coercion, coercion, or we're going to sort of hire citizens, give them salaries, so they're going to be able to pay it out of regular income. Since you and I both know that these taxes are going to be non-refundable, is this going to be an argument in the SNS election campaign to say, "I'm sorry, we realized you can't pay this, so on Twitter's account, like with a subscription, let's say -- we agree, citizens, we made a mistake, don't pay it, and we're going to cancel it? It's just a question for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17316	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, I cannot give you the right to a replica, you can only waste the time of the parliamentary group, if you like, since you did not mention it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17317	I'll speak by amendment, no matter what I'm misread. I am almost offended by the way the party of the former regime, regardless of its name, observes my right to differ. That right to the difference is democratic fluid and someone who wants to be a Democrats at all must have the right to respect it differently, even if they consider it something positive. I've even cited why I'm doing all this, and I've stated that my disagreement is the rule of the former regime party in my community. So that possibility of such a conduct can be repeated, let's say, by this ruling majority. It hasn't happened yet, but one of the reasons why I think it's different is my negative experience that according to this amendment and this law and the proposed solution happened in this municipality. I fear that thinking with my own head and that, within the ruling majority, certain MPs think with their heads, is not a reason for criticism. So we're being criticized here because me or someone else is thinking for themselves, and that's not like one ruling majority? It's not my fault they were thinking with one head, what they were wrong, what came from that famous robbery of citizens, etc. Just because no one from the ruling majority in the former regime was allowed to oppose the opinion of one head. I don't want to think with one head, and I don't want to vote with one finger. So the right to differ is my fundamental right and that is why I accept this amendment, and that is why I do not want to vote for this law for the reasons I have stated, because of the poor experience in the rule of the former regime in my municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17318	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17319	I'd believe someone would want to think for themselves if I hadn't heard Mr. Prime Minister say this is a buffalo government, which has two heads. Now tell me, are you thinking spare heads or are you thinking straight heads? I do not deny at all the right of any member of the people to think as they please – with my own, with my own, with the head of the government, to think with my wallet, with my chair. It's your legitimate right. All that evolution and thinking we've seen in some of you. Sometimes it's thought with a wallet, sometimes with a head, sometimes with a spare head, with a buffalo head, sometimes with a projected head, but here I'm asking a question of responsibility. You can't say the next day – so I'm not responsible for it, I meant with my head, but I voted as I voted and did not bear any responsibility for it. It is not threatened here by your or any right to think with your head and vote according to your conscience, your political beliefs or beliefs, but the question arises – why do you have one head when you think, the other when you vote, and the third when you vote, carry out what you vote, and why does the buffalo government act as if it has no responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17320	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17321	For the third time, I am saying why I accept this amendment, or why I will vote on this amendment, and why, if nothing changes, because of agricultural land, I cannot accept this law. I didn't say I'd think one thing and vote differently. On the contrary, I said it was my right to think differently and to vote differently, but the privilege of thinking with one's head can only be felt by one who also thinks with his own head. The other guy can't possibly know that. And it's not a problem just having a head, it's supposed to be something in your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17322	Thank you. I ask all MPs to return to the agenda, both for our sake and for the citizens of Serbia. Anyone else want a word about the amendment to Article 5? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukkovic and Gorica Mojovic together submitted the 5th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17323	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the amendments that we have submitted as a group of Members of Parliament predict that in Article 5 or the new Article 6a, paragraph 1 point 6) change the definition of groups that form the basis for determining the tax on property by separating business premises and locals from the auxiliary premises that serve to carry out their work. So to separate those rooms that represent well-equipped bars, well-equipped business premises, business buildings, which have far greater market value than those rooms, especially warehouses, some rooms that are not sufficiently infrastructured, are not well arranged and do not have that market value as they have business buildings. It's not the same when you have a high-quality place on the street and you have a building room in your backyard where you do some kind of craft shop, you have a warehouse that's not infrastructured, that's not worth so much market value. We believe that this set of laws, first of all this property tax law, serves to drag the citizens' hand into their pockets, to compensate for the funds taken by local self-government, those 26 billion on the basis of the profit tax, and since the current ruling coalition, or regimes as you like to say, the SNS cannot avoid responsibility and cannot avoid responsibility for voting on the government for the proposals of these laws and this law to amend the Law on property tax. Also, it is likely that the law will also support the Serbian Parliament and will certainly be responsible for the worse standard of citizens. It will be responsible for other economic and financial measures proposed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Serbian Government. Other measures that have led to Serbian citizens living far worse today, that 30% of the unemployed are in Serbia today, that a large number of young people, that today in Serbia citizens spend 17% less than last year, that the deficit has reached 87 billion and that in June, as the government announced, we are expected to rebalance, and we believe that the rebalancing should have come together with these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17324	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, who proposes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17325	Thank you. I'm going to lean on my colleague. Four days ago in this small hall assembly, there was a gathering called "Serbia and Diaspora, how to improve co-operation". At the rally, Serbia's diaspora and Serbs in the region, the most prominent Serbs in the world, who deal in business, were invited. From Miroslav Mike Djordjevic, Susana Hall, Zoran Curcin, etc. etc. This is what some of them have said about these tax laws, namely the uncertainty that this government has brought into the field of taxation. Dr Radivoje Petrikic, who lives in Vienna and is co-owner of a law firm, said Serbia is no longer interested in foreign investment, primarily because of frequent taxes...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17326	Mr. Vesenovic, I am really obliged to remind you that you can only talk about the amendment you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17327	Chairman, I only made an introduction and tried to illustrate it. So the gentleman mentioned said that our tax rates are now changing from month to month and that Serbia is no longer interesting for foreign investment because it is insecure. Besides, he stated that the profit tax has now reached 30% and that it is no longer interesting for foreign investors at all. Now we come to what we have already talked about under the previous amendments and this existing amendment, this is uncertainty. How will that foreign investor who comes, say, to this Ruma, or that Mitrovica, know what kind of tax awaits him, when will the mayor be able to change the tax rate? Will you suggest to him that he move somewhere else? No, I don't. He has the only choice to return to the country he came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17328	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The MPs together Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic, submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic, submitted to the 7th amendment in the same text. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17329	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the local self-government unit of this amendment is hereby authorised and obliged to carry out what belongs to the tax assessment by 30 November of the current year. I personally expressed my suspicion that the local self-government will be able to do what belongs to it by 30 November of this year, which is to make a list and establish a tax base for every household, house, barn, barn, barn, well and all that falls under tax assessment, and that is what has been partially taxed, one part of the change in agricultural land, will create new obligations under this law, and will have to establish new tax bases. What I believe is that local self-governments are unable to do so during this time period on 30 November and also when this member of the law is further viewed, if tax administrations do not do so, is determined by automation for tax and tax determination at the highest rate and when the zone itself is determined. I believe that the Republic and the tax administration that is somewhere the most realistic in the assessment of the tax base when determining the tax on property must not be so easily denied the role it has and the long-term experience it has in determining and cutting taxes. Cities and municipalities may, by changing the zone or by zoning, extend, reduce and determine different coefficients for those zones. I therefore believe that the Republic and the Tax Administration must maintain their role in determining the tax base and tax in order not to create chaos on the ground. Especially since I believe that local self-government will not be able to register the property itself and establish tax bases for each citizen, who is a taxpayer under this law. So think about how this will be done so that there is no abuse on the ground and that it is not the citizens who will eventually suffer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17330	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The MPs together Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic, submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic, submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17331	The honourable representatives of the government, the chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, have submitted an amendment to Article 10 which says that in Article 10 amending Article 12 of the existing law, we should delete the words – except for public enterprises. So this law is designed to tax property tax and public enterprises, so I wanted to ask the Minister and his associates that this is a good thing, given that some things are changing in future members, or certain expropriation users, we cut off the property tax, and we give it to public companies. I read the explanation. More or less, I understand, but it's my question – will it save the financing of municipalities if we tax public enterprises, first of all I'm talking about local public enterprises? It was a short time to prepare the amendment, almost just one night before the debate, then Wednesday, so maybe I didn't get the best way with my colleagues to formulate this explanation. First of all, it was about local public enterprises. Is he going to, for example? The local self-government in Požega, Baja Basta, in our Zlatibor County, is able to have these revenues from these local public enterprises, which are already subsidized by local self-government? That's my question, can we handle as local self-government taxation of local public enterprises, or are we already giving them certain resources, giving them certain jobs that they're carrying out. I think that out of the interest itself, which could happen if these companies aren't able to pay property tax on time or do business with loss, is it possible that these additional funds are being charged with them? I think that when we work systemically and together we tighten the belt, so both in local self-government and in the Republic, for public enterprises, it really makes sense and that's how we do it. As DSS, we want only to point to certain elements in this law that may not be the best, which will put an additional burden on not only local public enterprises, but also on local self-government as founders of these public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17332	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17333	This is an important thing. The amendment speaks of the need to take care of what Parliament's Bozanic said, that public enterprises are taxpayers and pay themselves to local self-government. We are coming into the situation that the founders are taking taxes from the companies they founded and doing some public action, some activity of general interest, which in itself is a controversial and self-inflicted intention of the founder of a public enterprise was not to pay the tax. This is the only thing I can understand in the situation, but it's not explained to us, nor is it said, if there is a privatization of plumbing and dumps, as planned in some local self-government or the addition of concessions to plumbing, dumps and other, to avoid, in this way, that those who come to buy it or take concessions and other, undertake to pay taxes on this basis. Otherwise, public utility companies will not pay taxes. How will local self-government, which plans that tax in its budget, charge that tax from public enterprises, be it then to deny them money for investments, which each local self-government plans during the year or in some other way? We also didn't get an answer to the question in which way the tax will be charged by citizens who are unable to pay the tax they are cut off? In what way will taxes be charged from public enterprises that are unable to pay this tax? One thing Mr. Vesenović mentioned, is this tax that will wait for those who come to buy a water line or take a water supply or some dump, wait for those who come as people who want to invest, that this tax is actually waiting for those who come to privatise or take to buy or build a part of the plumbing, gas infrastructure or something, so that as potential investors wait for this tax? This is the best intention of getting an explanation from the minister of what is the aim of introducing this tax and how the municipality will charge it, as well as how the municipality will charge taxes from citizens who are unable to pay it. Finally, I'm someone who really wants to do well in all parts of Serbia. I'm a Belgrade citizen. I was speaking exclusively now about Belgrade, because this fake bill came from Belgrade. That's all. If it had come from Kragujevac, from Nis, I would have given these examples. So we're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17334	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17335	Thank you. The SVM parliamentary group this amendment or the proposal I think will accept or will vote for, since we think that this is from rare cases that we will indirectly burden our citizens' pockets, because if public enterprises are going to pay property tax from now on, that part of the money will be allocated from the expenditure on paying the property or paying the tax, someone has to pay. It'll be seen in utility bills, if I look at my community, it means a very public company that charges utility services from now on will have to pay taxes, then it'll be through their bills that delivers them. So, directly to the citizens, they're going to meet to charge them that part of the tax, what they have to charge the municipality. I mean, as we said, unfortunately, if the municipality is going to increase the property tax, the local self-government itself will bear the burden of this property. Why am I saying that? I come from such a municipality where after the election the power was changed and, unfortunately, in that municipality we have 250 million dinars minus what we inherited. In addition, if we adopt this law, it's another 61 million dinars of burden for the municipality. I don't think the municipality will be able to make up for it, with any new law or new tax. The question arises, so there are also such municipalities that did not use money, bought cars, spent on something else, but unfortunately they inherited huge minuses in their budgets. With this law, we're going to increase this minus a little bit, unfortunately. This is about the 10% budget of the Senta municipality, the 60 million dinars we're about to lose. With this amendment, if public enterprises will also have to pay taxes, unfortunately, citizens of Sente or citizens of our municipalities and cities, they will pay these bills and pay this type of tax through the account. I think it's a huge burden for middle-sized municipalities that may not be so developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17336	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Dragoljub Micunovic and Srdjan Mikovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17337	It's nice when you're in a society of people who think deeply and who try to fix the legal text in the best possible way. Believe me, I am honored that my colleagues Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Prof. Dragoljub Micunovic invited me to form an amendment to Article 10 together. The bill, where we have suggested that property tax is not paid on immovable property, among other things, on building land of up to 10 acres used as a yard or garden, i.e. for the regular use of a residential facility on which the rightful property or right to use a natural person is on. This particular text is, in my opinion, the best possible text in terms of defining which tax should not be paid. The fact is that, for political or other reasons, a different amendment to Article 1 may have been accepted. The bill, which some of our colleagues have proposed with the same intention, so that it is practically not taxed, i.e. it does not enter into the law of the right to use construction land over 10 acres in accordance with the law governing the legal regime of construction land. What does that mean? This means that even building land, which is not a garden, which is not a courtyard, which does not serve as a regular use of an object, even where there is no building, there is practically no obligation to pay taxes. I'm not sure that part has excuses as much as this defined and strict definition of the garden itself, the courtyard or the land that serves as a regular use. In that sense, I believe that it would be correct, regardless of whether it will admit it, or not to admit that this amendment is better, that is, the best that defines this matter, but it would mean at least to acknowledge that this is the best and most precisely defined matter, which, indeed, has been the subject of other amendments and other members of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17338	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17339	I just wanted to add one sentence. That's where the minister was contradictory, because we were talking about this tax, and we were supposed to encourage people to, perhaps, build, and build this law. So it's illogical. Where someone keeps city building land, not built and held for years, they don't pay taxes now the same as they don't pay and someone who built it. Of course he couldn't build on the whole plot, because urban conditions are such that you can take 30, 40, 50, 60% of the plot and that some garden must be. It's a good thing you're not paying for it, but I don't see why you wouldn't pay for the ones that didn't build it. Maybe that's how we'd encourage people to build. But, well, this solution we got is better than the initial one. I just want to conclude that you've run yourself politically, so you didn't want to adopt a better DS amendment compared to any other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17340	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Homen and Radoslav Milovanovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Gorica Mojovic, Aleksandar Senic, Ljuban Panic and Ivan Jovanovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the corrections. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with amendments is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Srdjan Milivojevic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Srdjan Mikovic and Slobodan Homen submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17341	We've talked about it before. Why, if you want the law to allow local self-government to determine the tax on property, why didn't you make it possible for local self-government and some tax relief to determine, but rather limit the tax credit to 20,000 dinars? With this amendment, we want to remove that limit of 20,000 dinars per apartment for tax credit, but to make it 50% of the value of the tax if someone lives in the apartment. What's the point? The point is that we have to enable people to live in an apartment and that the person who lives in the apartment is not a tycoon or owner of some huge property, but has a fundamental need to live somewhere and meet that need. We all meet our needs the way we can. We were born in some apartments. We inherited some apartments. Some of them built 20, 30 and 50 years ago. Some bought apartments 50 years ago, and some bought apartments. It's not the ones who bought the apartments of the 1990s rich and tycoons, so now they can pay a tax on property of 100,000 dinars. Why don't you let them cut their taxes by 50% if they live in those apartments? It can be considered a luxury if you don't live in that apartment, you have another, third, fourth apartment, or those apartments you rent, but if you live in an apartment with a family, you have to give these people a tax credit. There were solutions in earlier laws much better, and that was a solution to give 50% to the taxpayer, plus 10% to the family household member, but we'll discuss that kind of amendment a little later.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17342	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment seems meaningful to me, and I was almost determined to vote, but there's one problem. Reading the text – the taxpayer who lives in the apartment gets 50% relief. He's got all kinds of taxpayers. There's one who lives in 16 square meters, there's one who lives in 30 squares and one who lives in 50 squares, and I know some members of the former regime that live in 1,000 squares. If he lives in a 250 - square - square - square penthouse, he would be covered by a tax relief as well as that worker who barely bought the apartment and may live in 25 - 35 square meters. If this was a little degree and it was limited by a certain number of squares, I would definitely vote for this. If it had been written that it was about a working apartment of up to 60 square meters and houses of up to 100 square meters, which is not in an extra zone, I would have been happy to vote for such an amendment. However, it is not the same if someone lives in a 35-square apartment and someone who has three 100-square apartments, not to name names, is members of the former regime, or lives in a penthouse that has 240 squares and is worth, according to their estimates in my municipality, about 500,000 euros. As they came to him, that's another question. If we were to determine such a relief, which includes everything, then I don't think it would be fair to those who paid the tax, poor while others got rich, that the same tax relief couldn't cover each other. Otherwise, I appreciate this amendment very positively, except you don't have restrictions, value of real estate or number of squares in a specific zone. If that contained this amendment, I would certainly vote for it. This way, I can't, because he puts those who robbed and those who were robbed in the same position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17344	Thank you. Nenad Konstantinovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17345	To help my colleague Risticevic vote for this amendment after all. There's no discrimination. These 50% and in this current law, even in this bill, there are also valid for everything, but it is limited to 20,000 dinars. He can't go through with it. That 50% could be a lot more than 20,000 dinars. That's what we explained, because here taxes are forecasting 100,000 and 80,000 and so on. The size of the apartment depends, of course, on how many families live in that apartment. The question could be opened and thought in that way. I don't mind the regulation and a certain percentage per member of the family household. It's not the same if a four-member family lives in 40 squares, or if a man lives in 80 squares. You'll agree that it's not a luxury if a four-member family lives in apartment 50, 60, 70 and 80 square meters and it's not a luxury if they live both grandparents, and grandparents, and mother, and father, and children, all in the same apartment because they don't have anywhere else to live and they don't have the ability to pay for it. As for these advantages you mentioned -- yes, there's a progressive rate, so those whose property is more valuable, has a bigger apartment, he's progressively taxed at a much higher rate than the one who lives, as you say, in a working apartment. The law regulates it in a different way. This is a matter of tax credit. Those who live in an apartment with families must have a tax relief from those who do not live in those apartments, and that is their second, third, fifth, tenth and fifteenth apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17346	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17347	I fully support these exposures, but from this amendment I don't see that any individual who lives alone in a property that has 250 square feet and only lives in it, that we don't get in the way it came to this, I don't see that it will be excluded from this member of the law if we adopt this amendment. In all other things, I support your exposure, only the problem of those who have 250 squares live alone. Regardless of the fact that it's a slightly bigger tax, he has 50% reliefs again, as well as the poorest ones living between 25 and 30 square meters. You can't argue with that. If you had limited it to a certain value, I would have voted for it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17348	Thank you. MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17349	Since this is about our common amendment, I'm reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17350	You, Mr. Mikovic, have no right to a replica. You can talk about the amendment. It means you're wasting the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go. You won't? Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, Natasa Vučković and Gordana Komic submitted their national MPs together. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17351	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we propose, with this amendment, Mrs. Komic and I, that as a tax relief, or as a tax credit, as the law calls it, that the solution we had until 2010, which is that all the bonds living in the apartment are reduced by 40%, and for each of the next members of the household living with it up to 10%, up to 70%. Why do we propose that? Because the current tax relief solution is not fair. I'll give you an example. Let's take one 100-square apartment, no depreciation, in Belgrade, downtown, for which the market value is 2,000 euros per square. The apartment will be taxed with 100,000 dinars per year under the new law. The obligor who lives in that apartment will only pay 20,000 less, whether he lives alone in that apartment or lives with two other children and a wife, or perhaps with another generation of his parents in his apartment. So that's a very unfair one solution. This is because we have now introduced the market value of the apartment and we do not have good corrections for it, so you have a situation that you will actually pay the same tax, whether you live in that apartment or your apartment is empty, or you live with six or five members of your family. It's something that I think is a country that is very poor, which is in a deep economic crisis, where unemployment is this big, totally unacceptable. We also need to take care of something that is a social component of housing. When we talk about the market value we have found to be one major change introduced by this bill. You know what the market value of the apartment you live in and if it's your only apartment? So these members of one household have to live somewhere. We're a little bit of an absolute assumption that the economic power is a liability to his real estate. Well, they didn't all come the same way to the real estate they live in. Someone inherited it, someone built it, someone bought it on credit, someone bought it by paying for it in full. These are different positions and this cannot be said to be the economic power of the debtors in all these cases. That is why there are these adjustments where people living in an apartment with their family significantly reduce the value of taxes and amendments to Mrs. Komic and mine are now proposing a very, in my opinion, social solution, if you will, but justifiably, because all those living with the family in their apartment will get a significant tax credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17352	National MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17353	There's no reaction from the minister. There is no reason why these amendments are not accepted. I really can't understand, if you said – it's not the idea for people to move and if you said – we want local self-government to determine taxes, so why don't you let local self-government handle tax breaks? Why don't you accept that people who live in an apartment and have nowhere else to live and can't pay a huge tax have a relief just because they live in that apartment and have no other immovableity? We heard on television that it was generally your idea to make a difference between those who have one apartment and who have another, third, fourth apartment, so you changed your mind about citizen Chacka. This is a chance to make a difference. The one who has the second, and the third, and the fourth apartment, we can say that it is also a luxury and that he betrays and does some business and needs to pay a bigger tax. One four-member or five-member family has nowhere to move, no one to sell that apartment. Accept this amendment to allow these people to pay taxes that will be acceptable to their budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17354	Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17355	In order not to be left without an explanation, what the law says has not changed at all in relation to the existing law. It's possible to release 50%, but no more than 20,000 dinars. Such a solution exists today. Such a solution remains. Our assessment was in consultation with experts on this area so that everything would be so-called. tax regression, i.e. undue tax exemption. We believe that this is a release that is in the current law and that we haven't changed enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17356	Natasa Vuckovic first responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17357	When you introduce market value, then you will create new tax solutions very large differences. We've already established that in the previous debate. You said yourself that the tax will increase by 60 or 70%. It's our opinion and more. We showed you our budgets. We haven't seen yours on specific cases, but you said 60 to 70%. In that situation, you do not in any way increase the tax relief for citizens. It will be a great burden, and I'm afraid in the very application of this law, we will see that it is inconclusive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17358	Thank you. Nenad Konstantinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17359	It could have been up to 20,000 dinars enough under the old law, in a different way of calculating. If you take this way of calculating basics to raise taxes, we talked, 100%, 300%, 400%, then you have to increase tax relief. It's pointless for a tax of 300,000 dinars to be taxed because you live in an apartment of 20,000. They're not gonna pay $300,000, they're gonna pay $280,000. My people, it doesn't mean anything. Look again. If we raise the tax base and thus raise the tax 60%, 70% or 200%, 300% must be raised and tax relief proportional to how much we raise our taxes. It's not a whim, but it's about that 20,000 dinars per 100,000 dinars that don't mean anything. Whether someone's gonna pay 104 or 84 doesn't matter because they can't pay. But if it's 50%, then instead of 104, it pays 50,000 dinars, which maybe someone could pay even though it's a hell of a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17360	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17361	I would like to take this opportunity to say something about the previous amendment. Tax relief for family households should be considered, especially where many generations live. It is especially in suburban settlements, smaller municipalities where at least two generations live in a rural household, and so it is always, and sometimes three. A difficult economic situation makes it difficult for younger people to leave and needs to see how to help them. I don't have much respect for those who live in the Old Town, the Wizard or the Savawedding. I don't care about them, but those who live in various municipalities in Serbia, especially those most underdeveloped, of which 20,000 or 30,000 are a very large amount, because this is the amount they have to pay annually to have the right to social protection and pension insurance. It is necessary to consider whether we will reduce that amount for tax returns and the tax base for them so that instead they can pay social and health insurance because it amounts just as much as it would be a relief. That's our suggestion, that maybe that part should be left to the local self-government, that, in accordance with its needs, it reduces that base. Secondly, there's a tax on renting social housing, and let's say in Zemun Field, and now these people who don't want to, simply live in social housing, not because they have other assets or because they're very nice, but because they're sick, they pay taxes on renting social housing, and that's the same for refugees. These are things to make this law fair. It is not some amount that will compromise the functioning of local self-government or the Republic of Serbia, but it is an amount that will endanger the functioning of these people and these families. We should consider passing a law and making provisions that will be fair in the interests of the citizens. So, to allow local self-government to make tax reliefs where several generations live in a family, a rural household, to allow them not to pay that tax, but to use all the money they give for tax to pay social and health insurance that people in the country don't pay mostly, because they don't have money, because they have to sell three, four pigs so they can pay themselves so they can go to the doctor to fix their teeth or something else, and about operations where they participate and not talk. So, that and other things, you see for social housing and refugees, that they get their taxes cut, because they don't live off the whim in those apartments, but because they don't have another apartment and they're sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17362	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment is to Article 12, it's a inheritance tax and a gift. It pays for property rights, if I'm not mistaken, I hope I'm not. In this case, I cannot vote for this amendment, even on the contrary, there is no amendment, and it would be good if there were, which would supplement this. Here the inheritance tax and the gift is paid on inheritance, i.e. on a gift received, paid money, savings deposit, deposit in the bank, cash claim. This is under three, deposit in the bank. I'm sorry it doesn't stand, and I don't know if I'm going to get that explanation - in the country and abroad. I know a lot of people from the party of the former regime that all they find are said to have received from abroad, from a rich uncle from Croatia, from a rich aunt from Australia, etc., so I don't know what will happen to that inherited money that was mostly our origins, which was mainly drawn in various ways from the budget, through public procurement, etc. This Article 12 should certainly remain, and in my view, the Ministry of Finance should consider supplementing this law in the future, to specify that the gifts, especially received by people who have been in power, who get and show at the Anti-Corruption Agency, that deposits in the bank, cash and savings are made from rich uncles, rich uncles, uncles, etc., are closer to still relatives, who have mostly died after the gift, so it can no longer be determined, that this is a fat review and that this tax rate, at such gifts in the evening, and that it is the subject of some investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17364	Thank you. MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17365	I think the amendment is quite good, and if, eventually, through this amendment, someone wants to run an asset check, they will do so in the best possible way if they support the law proposed by the DS, and sometimes the People's Movement of Resistance, it's the law on the investigation of the origin of the property. It is a law that will show whether someone had a rich aunt, a rich uncle, or a rich experience in falsifying stamps and other documents, and whether it was a rich experience in falsifying documents and making counterfeit stamps incomprehensible, enhanced and increased the rich property map. When he manages to explain to the tax and judicial authorities whether he has obtained it legally, then he will be able to give lectures to all other MPs, especially if he is now in power. Serbian citizens are much more interested in what the current government has, than those who once held responsibility for managing this country. Because what they're doing today is they're in power and they're the loudest anti-crime and corruption fighters, but only on the front pages of the party's ballots, they have to lay down accounts for some time behind them, but also to lay down accounts, which is why the law proposed by the People's Movement of Resistance and DS, at a time when they could bring it, they didn't want to bring it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17366	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17367	I will continue to talk about the amendment submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, or Mr. Michaelov. I don't think the previous speaker was talking about that amendment at all, that he was a little confused, that he was talking about an amendment that had passed long ago. But I don't mind the chairman, it's really hard, so I don't blame you for the failure you accidentally did. As far as this amendment is concerned, I have already said that I would be happy to accept it, and in that form I would accept it. I'm not guilty of being recognized in a wealthy uncle from Croatia. There are some of our colleagues who have exercised power in the previous period, there are former regimes that have been recited by certain companies, and when the monetary and material situation improved, to justify it among their citizens, they said they inherited it from a wealthy uncle from Croatia who, behold, died, so they inherited it and suddenly became rich, were once poor resistors, suddenly getting rich overnight, and it is best attributed to the late uncle from Croatia. And I'm very sensitive to these Croatian uncles, so I liked to have this amendment complemented, and whoever recognized it was already his fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17368	Thank you. National MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17369	The chairman, I agree with my colleague Risticevic, who said earlier that he had moved a little further away from the amendment Mr. Mihajlov spoke of. I really don't see where there's something about the law of origin of property and face. It's interesting to hear that, and DS had three Prime Ministers out of the last five, and that never came on the agenda. I also find it interesting that such proposals come from those who advocate to join the EU. The EU needs to ask what it means, but it is most interesting to tell me that the fight against crime and corruption is only being fought in the tabloids and on the front pages of the newspaper. As far as I know, Agrobank is now being done, "Vojvodine Development Bank" now, "Gallenika" -- brought in now, not in the papers, but in the detention units, where the prosecutors ordered them to be, and we haven't seen that before... (President: Mr. Shormaz, theme. ) I think that these types of qualifications should be prevented from happening when the amendment is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17370	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17371	We have one interesting thing here, it's more about my colleague Bojana's amendment, it's about abolishing the property tax, about expropriated land, about expropriation. What does that mean exactly? This is where social housing users pay taxes, refugees pay taxes, there's no one who doesn't pay taxes. I said in the principle debate, until this was lifted on 10 acres, only the land in the pot, the kidney stone and the sand in the bile was paid tax. Now it's a bit dilated. Only, apart from the sand in the kidney, the stones in the bile and the rest, now those who take the expeditated land do not pay taxes. It's a change in this law. This is interesting – to further reduce the income of local self-government because in the process of expropriation on the transfer of absolute rights does not pay land and does not pay taxes. It is something that will further reduce the income of local self-government, as it is in the good part of the income of local self-government. We are simply interested, and so will the MP Bozanić, why is this happening, and why is it that this type of tax that is income to local self-government, which is the basis and what is the just basis for such a solution? Is it perhaps the South Stream, is it something else, to reduce the costs to be paid? It is said that public utility companies, which are active in the general interest, pay taxes, but frees one who takes expropriated land from paying taxes. That's one newspaper. The minister and the service owe us an explanation of why it's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17372	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17373	Thank you. I'd also refer to a colleague of Michael's, but also to this previous amendment that I was talking about. In fact, we are coming into a situation where public companies pay property tax, in the next period it will be. One more thing is very important, now in this period, when it started to apply and very strictly controlled by the Law on respect for payment deadlines in public enterprises, public institutions, etc., public enterprises simply cannot respect all this, cannot respect and pay all their obligations and pay taxes on property, especially by paying to local self-government, which, on the other hand, helps these public enterprises to survive. As for the amendment itself to Article 19, where we think it would be a better solution to how it was in the existing, or currently applicable Property Tax Act, I would ask the Minister to explain the previous solution to Article 10, but the same thing in this article is important to say that 2.5% of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights goes to local self-government. So this way we partially disrupt the revenues of local self-government. For example, we have the municipalities of Priboy and Sienica, through one would pass the pipeline, through another passing the highway, and when the expropriation takes place, the user of expropriation, whoever it is, does not matter, will not pay that tax on the transfer of absolute rights, one of which is a small part, but still very important, goes to local self-government. That's how we again deny these municipalities and cities for these revenues, especially these small ones, besides these others. I completely agree, as I said earlier, that order should be put in place in the functioning of both states and local self-government, primarily in public finances, but is this the best way to resolve finances both in local self-governments and in the state? Of course, it can't be good for the state if it's bad for individual municipalities or if they don't have enough income. We certainly shouldn't leave them anywhere in the sky or on the ground, so to speak, and these laws should not be synchronised, because, in addition to the many responsibilities and obligations that we impose on local self-governments, where the small and less developed municipalities suffer the most, we now, here and there, take away certain incomes, and all of this is finally accumulated. It is very important that the voice of local self-government be heard. It can be heard here in the National Assembly and certain requirements are respected, and it can also be heard through the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, where we have seen that they are not exactly respected at present, because you did not fully take into account what they were looking for and probably these presidents of municipalities that come from the ruling majority at the state level, but I really ask you to reconsider and consider how tax payments will be solved on the property of public enterprises, on the one hand, and again the user of expropriation, on the other hand. So we are completely changing the tax on property, that is, in this bill of law in relation to the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17374	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17375	This expropriation tax is abolished, with the idea of stimulating this process and to encourage the realisation of public interest, which is achieved by expropriation. What's the idea? So every time you do expropriation, you do some kind of public project. The idea is to make this process simpler, easier and simply give a boost to the public interest that is being achieved from this public project. That's why we're removing that tax that he's been provoking from expropriation so far. The fact is that municipalities will therefore have less local income, but interest will be made on its territory, so they will compensate for the achievement of public interest. They'll have less at the beginning, but later on, when it's realized, if it's a highway, if it's a pipeline, it'll have more revenue in some future because of a better business climate and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17376	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17377	I really don't think it makes any sense that anyone who's been paid a fee for expropriated land doesn't pay taxes on that, and that they pay taxes, for example. refugees who get a rent-a-carrying apartment. Be careful what is the ultimate illogical solution. People who have spent 20 years in this country, escaped from war horrors, lost everything, eventually got their hands on a social apartment, where they have to pay 30, 40 or 50 euros in rent, usually the poorest families, usually people don't have any income, just sell by fleas, they have to pay taxes on renting that apartment, as a social category, and someone whose expropriated land, gets paid for it, doesn't pay taxes for it. It's really highly illogical. I understand the set of these laws that go to this Assembly, on the one hand, has reduced the percentage of income tax that goes to local self-government, and on the other hand, you have made it possible for local self-government property tax to replace that loss. However, I suppose it is logical and normal that when a minister who deals with tax policy, and as far as local self-government is concerned, introduces some new taxes or proposes new amendments to laws concerning local self-government, it is likely that these local self-governments, or their organisations, are asking in what way they should do so and consulting them. A constant conference of cities and municipalities has repeatedly called upon you to meet urgently to discuss the solutions to the law. However, the encounter did not occur at all. For example, the Income Tax Act will come into effect after adoption, that is, in a decade, hundreds of millions of revenues will be reduced to local self-government, and local self-government has already entered public procurement processes this year. Some have concluded contracts, they will have fewer incomes, so what will they pay for it? I think, on the one hand, that kind of unpredictability of tax policy and income and, on the other hand, not consulting with those concerned by the law, and above all local self-government here is not a good practice, and I don't think these solutions you've proposed, and without consulting local self-government, they're not going to be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17378	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17379	I must admit that I am personally confused and that I was not quite sure that several times today the repeated finding that public enterprises would pay property taxes, I thought it was some kind of misunderstanding. However, I have not heard Mr Dinkic's reply, and given the short time we had to prepare under these laws, it is really not clear to me now whether public enterprises have an obligation or are excluded from paying the property tax. What does that mean? Are some of the public enterprises that are in huge losses, which have debts for energy, which barely put an end to the end, and I'm talking primarily about local public enterprises, let's say the situation in Novi Sad, where DS is now out of control, whether the Novosadian heat, which has over a billion long and huge assets, is going to have to pay a tax on property? Will the plumbing have to pay the property tax? Will the EPS need to pay the property tax? Really, I'm not quite sure that's true. If that is true, it is absurd and I am quite sure that not all MPs of the ruling majority are fully informed of this. On the other hand, I agree entirely with the argument of the predecessors of the DSS, which is the absolute position of DS MPs, that it is inappropriate, I would say, and hypocritically, to tax the apartments, to create tax obligations for refugees and exiled persons. Did this country come this low? Is the budget so empty that refugees in rental apartments because they got the right to use will have to pay property taxes? Indeed, I can't be surprised, and even in the SNS coalition is some coalition of refugees, or refugee associations, do they support such a law? Please plead, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17380	Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17381	As for public enterprises, we must not tolerate either in the Republic or at the local level of enterprises that have dubiosis. Any speech that we need now to protect someone who has losses and let him behave the same way as he has done so far, he simply doesn't have the support of our government. We need to go where they're dubious to determine exactly why it's dubious. It's not a natural disaster, it's a dubiosis created by humans. If you can get a water line in one city to do business without losing it, why would a water line in another city have losses? The same goes for the heat. The same goes for any public enterprise, and it applies to the republican public enterprises, except for one where you always have a loss because of the nature of the job and where the state carries the cost, where rarely the state has an surplus, which is a railway. To be realistic, the railroad rarely has a win in the world. What is certain is that we simply want to put into the same position of public enterprises with private enterprises because if we want to respect the Constitution consistently, everyone must be equal. Why would they protect the losers without helping those who make profit? We should encourage those who are able to make a profit. Just because it's state-owned doesn't mean it's lost by nature. This has become the most common cause of excessive employment in all possible times, which is not about spending, which is a casual relationship that no one can get fired here, etc. So there's a thousand reasons. We want on all fronts, including tax treatment to equalize all sectors in our country, private, state. We'll talk about it more, of course, and Thursday when there's a special session about economic policy, but our idea is that we have to give far more importance to whoever creates the value, which is the private sector. The state sector is important because it has a public interest, but it would not live if those who work in production primarily in the private sector did not create some value which is then distributed to achieve some state interest. This is an idea, so equating everyone's status in a tax sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17382	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17383	Minister, I agree that we need to level the private and public sectors, but we know that the conditions are not exactly the same. That public sector is at some economic cost. You say public companies will have to pay taxes now. Do you know who's going to pay that tax for them? They will pay the citizens because they will have to transfer at the price of heating, water prices, the price of utility services, or include the price of property taxes they will have to pay. It's a serious new blow to the citizens' home budget. So what do you think they're going to do with that tax, how to calculate into the budget next year? By asking for an increase in prices. And it'll pay the citizens. Now we've got a round story. This is indeed, you can freely say the biggest robbery of citizens, i.e. a blow to the budget of the citizens we have seen in the last period. In this way, it comes through legal proposals in the Assembly that we are just now discovering things, even if I am personally, when it comes to tax on the property of public enterprises and the fact that it will have to be paid by citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17384	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17385	You know what, I'm against making an impression, and you've created a lot of it, I don't mean you personally, but the party you belong to, that the state has incomes that come from the sky, and that citizens have the right to get services that are financed from out of nowhere. All public expenditures, including road construction, bridges, kindergarten care, schools, are financed from taxes paid by all. It is only fair to set all things apart and to unburden those who are better and then to charge them more, and to save those who do not work or who are in the Javalukh and to charge them nothing. The fact is that public enterprises are well inefficient because they have been protected as white bears for a long time and have no intention of changing until someone presses and restructures them. I speak equally of local and republican public enterprises, provinces, all of them. So in this sense, this proposal is legal and it is a step in reforms. The opposition justifiably criticises me sometimes why we are not braver in reform. Well, here's the reform. It's simple, there's no free lunch, it's just a reform that needs to be implemented sooner or later. This is part of the tax reform, and when I announced these laws, I told you it was done five months on them as part of a tax reform package. It is true that some segments relating not to this law but to some other laws in the last month are something revised, but this one is not. This is a fruit of a long-term debate both in the Serbian fiscal society and you see for yourself how much it is, it could not be prepared so quickly. So, it's been seriously done on that. So we want to introduce equality of all, and we have given certain freedoms the opportunity to, for example, be able to. the freedom of this tax as it is now part of the facilities that are in accordance with the regulations and directly serve to carry out municipal activities. This will be defined by some sublegal acts. So that's where we haven't changed, in this part of the release.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17386	Thank you. The replica was first reported by Bojana Bozanic as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17387	Thank you. Indeed, and at first I said when I first checked in, the DSS really was well-intentioned to give all these suggestions and ideas and all that she saw in the law where she felt that maybe there was no fair distribution. We will certainly support any reform that will lead to some long-term improvement. I believe that in this way we may be able to take the air in the middle of the financial year, but we certainly won't be able to save ourselves from drowning, I'm sure in a few hours, because these laws don't seem systematic to me, but at this point this set of tax laws in the middle of the budget year does not make any improvement to local self-government, and certainly not to the state for a long time, but only at this moment. I agree that reforms should be made and happiness followed by courage, but surely some conditions that must be respected. We must primarily reduce public spending, invest in production, invest in investments, eliminate non-productive jobs, restructure losers. We need to do this together, and we need to take care of the rationalization of the state apparatus, not just in local self-government. Somehow right now, we're so strict and strictly going to apply a lot of criminal provisions to local self-government, and on the other hand, we're going to cut off their incomes. I really think that we should gradually introduce certain reforms, especially in the area of fiscal policy, because, as colleagues have said, it will hit citizens the most. I agree that we should all bear the burden of the crisis equally to citizens, local self-government and states, but not to each other's burden. And it seems to me that somehow here again a little less developed municipalities bear this greatest burden, precisely because here and there, in certain members of the law, which are so disguised and not very transparently displayed, some incomes, such as this income, or the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, that in a small process go to local self-governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17388	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17389	When it comes to public enterprises, the fact is that the burden will go to citizens the most. There's really no need to discuss it further. However, he would really ask Minister Dinkic, if he could give us an answer when it comes to the obligations he will receive by this law, so to speak under quotes, refugees and exiled persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17390	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17391	According to the amendment, the thesis here is that if public enterprises, local and republican companies pay taxes, they will be placed on the back of citizens. We are just coming up with a key problem and we are coming to the truth that all the failures, all the losses of the public enterprises of this country are eventually being brought down on the back of the citizens. And it's true at this point. But I think the time has finally come for us to face this truth and end this bad practice and force public enterprises, of course, to behave the way private companies behave. An example of the railway is mentioned here, and I will point out that the railway owns 12% of the entire property of the Republic of Serbia. One vast majority of this property is off-duty and huge property in this country owned by public enterprises, regardless of whether they are local or republican, is off-functional and in this way, but of course other measures will make public enterprises care what they do with the property, whether they need it and how they put it into office. So, we believe that public enterprises must finally be leveled with the private sector and finally the seas, in other words, are both requests and the Fiscal Council, and the International Fund, and all those who have a grudge, justified by what is currently going on in our economy, to finally start with one serious reform of the public sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17392	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17393	So as part of the liberalisation that is said to equalise private and public enterprises, it is something that is at the moment a new noose around the neck of public enterprises and citizens of Serbia that performs simply one public function, a function of general interest. We expect a repair of the municipal infrastructure, and public enterprises either gas, water, telecommunications, wider their network, repair the quality of their network, and on the other hand we impose new obligations on them, abolish tax revenues municipalities, profit tax, reduce compensation for it, and introduce property tax. And we expect our public companies to play a game of competition. What's gonna happen? As a gas distributor, you will see "Rurgas", "Eon", or "Fransgas", one of the major European companies that have their country's support, operating for years in one regulated system as a competitor to domestic gas distributors. Will they be able to hold that game? Well, he won't. And this kind of liberalisation leads to the collapse of our public-communal enterprises, the additional borrowing that citizens will again cover. Because the citizens cover the debt of "Serbiagas", they cover the citizens by giving guarantees to the loans, covering the liquidity of the "Serbiagas". And we will, in one way or this way, put everything on the citizens. Are we going through property tax and house tax or garden tax, property they have at the bar? To put our hand in their pocket, or by budgeting us to serve in the second step of public enterprises' debt, it's completely irrelevant, the result is the same. That's one thing. Secondly, it's being introduced, we release one category of land expropriation, and we introduce social categories to pay taxes. Well, that's nowhere to be found. It means that those living in social housing from their misery must pay taxes on social housing and refugees who, not by their own free will, have fled from their homes or have been expelled from their homes. In a number of cases, someone in the family, who ends up paying taxes today, died. So it's from a public morale point of view, however you like, totally unacceptable. It is necessary to find a fair solution to this law, I simply appeal to the ministry and there is still time to vote, to make certain things correct in this law and to apply it regardless of the objections that will continue, but these are just some things that are in direct conflict and with some common sense and morality, to tax those who live in social housing that they pay rent and refugees who live on more of them in social housing. So that's the thing I urge and expect the Ministry to come to the meeting, and to reconsider with all this need for the liberalisation of public utility companies, it is simply necessary to see if there is a possibility that the application of that decision should be postponed until the restructuring of the public enterprise, the reduction of the number of employees and somehow bringing them to market business. It also takes prices to be marketable, so they can compete. Foreigners from all competition will not come if you have the price of water or other services below the market, and to a good extent this is the result of debts. They will pay one tax, and the citizens will settle it. All in all, what we said in the debate and in principle, it all comes down to citizens paying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17394	Anyone else want a word? The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17395	A good clagworth for this discussion has just given my colleague and to say the countryman, MP Mitrovica, given that we have touched one fundamental issue, and this issue is about burdening the fiscal obligations of public enterprises. It is true that no one can be absolved, regardless of the almost tax amnesty they cannot be public utility companies out of tax obligations. On the other hand, however, it should be borne in mind that this set of laws will not be so easily applicable unless amendments and additions and the adoption of other laws relating exclusively to local self-government and public enterprises occur. We recently passed the Law on Public Enterprises, made certain failures that should certainly be corrected, especially with regard to regional public enterprises, where we left regional public enterprises outside the law, and then applied the principles of analogy, in order to use these legal provisions, both with the status and with the legal regulation of these public enterprises. On the other hand, nothing happened compared to the changes in the law on local self-government. It is these laws that are complementary with today's current and on the agenda, for discussing the laws, that must be very quickly amended in any case and adopted in order to make these laws as effective as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17396	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 19th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 19th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17397	Thank you. Once again, we're talking about the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. Article 24a of the existing law states that the tax on the transfer of absolute rights on the basis of expropriation is not to be abolished. Once again, I would like to point out that it is very important that, for example, let's take the opposition municipalities, for example. Požega and Bajina Basta, where the presidents of the municipalities and leadership are from parties that are not in the ruling coalition here at the republican level, where some major infrastructure project is to be done, they will certainly have some long-term benefits. They won't have that tax on the transfer of absolute rights. On the other hand, if you would, for example. applied for some kind of project at some ministry and so on, I believe it would be hard to get some funding. That's how it's been so far and God forbid something changes. I think that only by far-reaching and long-term joint measures can we come to the fiscal consolidation of our complete financial system and it will certainly bring you some benefits in the long run. The fiscal council also said pension reform, subsidy reform, restructuring of public enterprises, and the rationalisation of jobs in the state apparatus must be carried out. That, of course, won't do any good for the short run. That's for sure. Something similar was done by Margaret Thatcher, and she almost flew out of power during that period. But she was lucky. Some other things have helped her stay, so I believe only those ministers and that government that advocates long-term reforms will be able to do something like this. Now, this thing where we do a little bit of lifting, so we change something in the middle of the budget year, I think it's murderous for local self-governments, that they're definitely on their knees and we're subtracting their percentage by percent, and we're adding jurisdiction by jurisdiction. I believe that there will be big problems by the end of this year if we do not work together to sort of correct it and really look at projects that will be funded in local self-governments by some priorities, not at some small political level, but rather at those political differences and that we are really working in the interests of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17398	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 25th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 26th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 27th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 28th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 29th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 32nd Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 39 of the amendment, with correction, MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted. The government has not accepted the amendment in the proposed text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public funds did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Deyan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17399	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, this is the last amendment and the last member for today. I'd just like to sum up what we did the last two days in the discussion in principle and today about the property tax law. The Democratic Party of Serbia has managed through the amendments to show that in its best intention it wanted to make this law fairer, fairer and to bring it into line with what citizens are interested in right now. Citizens are, frankly, the only ones who will bear the price of tax reform, because everything in the extreme distance will be reduced to citizens, whether we're talking about tax on their assets, whether we're talking about tax on public utility companies, whether we're talking about abolishing expropriation tax and if we're talking about tax cuts. We as DSS have asked and are now asking for these laws to be withdrawn from the procedure, to be completed and to comply with the situation in which Serbian citizens are today. I am afraid that they will not be in a position to fulfil all these obligations put before them and that the way in which the enforcement of the legal obligations is required will be one way of forcing them, and that the court will do so through the sale of movable and immovable property of citizens, in order to settle the tax. It is something that is not acceptable for us at this time and should not go further with increasing the burden on citizens to tax, which increases the obligation of local self-government, that public utility companies pay taxes and reduce the income of local self-government by reducing the tax on earnings and eliminating the cost of expropriation and other small obligations that are lifted. We propose that these laws be withdrawn from the procedure, possibly updated and that, in the context of a tax reform that the minister is talking about, which is necessary, to approach the rationalisation of expenditures as republican, as all other administrations according to local self-government, public enterprises, both republican and local approaches. First of all, let's discuss budget rebalancing before the tax debate. I think this is how we go from the end, and in the first step, the citizens will be saving again, and the state won't. We expect to first see how the state will save, public administration, public enterprises, and only then have citizens get a motive for them to tighten their belts and make their contribution and efforts to help the state get out of the difficult situation in which it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-27-0.u17400	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. For today, we stop working and continue tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Tuesday, whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
