ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-08-0.u15189	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we continue to work, I would like to congratulate all members of the Roma Nationality World Roma Day. We continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. On the basis of an official record of the presence of MPs, 137 MPs attend. I remind you, Article 168 is Section 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that, during the sitting, on an urgent procedure, proposals for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office may be put on the agenda of the sitting, provided that most of the Members attend. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 126 MPs are present in the Hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 168(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MEP Stefan Miladanovic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the meeting – a proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Social and Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia on 29 March 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For – 120 abstentions – three were not voted by 29, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We're continuing our work. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a MEP FOR THE MEETING OF THE COrupTION AGENCY, you have received a proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, who has submitted the Social-Economic Council, as well as the Report of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary group. You've received a schedule of time per MP's group in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a hearing on a proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if anyone who has not used the right of Article 96 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. Since the assembly has completed its debate on all agenda points and a decision on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, 8 April 2013, at 10.20 p.m. as a day for voting on the other agenda points of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. The application of the electronic voting system found that there are 128 MPs in the hall, i.e. most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move on to the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC MEASURES FOR PREPARATION OF CRIME ACTIVITIES IN THE PURPOSE OF SECURITAL FREEDOMS After the Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, in principle and in particular, we move on to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on special measures to prevent crimes against half-freedom against minors, in principle. For – 167, six out of 173 MPs did not vote. The assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Olgica Batic, written on the way, withdrew the amendments she submitted on 4 March 2013 to members: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14 and 15; that an integral part of the bill had become amendments submitted by MPs: together Milica Vojić Marković, Milica Radović, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić and Jovan Palalić to Article 2, Srdjan Mikovic to Article 7, Stefana Miladinović to Articles 7 and 9 and Olgica Batic to Article 13. It is also an integral part of the draft law that has become an amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 3 and to the title above Articles 5 and 5, given that the proposing representative has accepted them in the course of the search in particular. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the bill and Article 1 of the amendment, MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 19, it did not vote – 157 out of 176 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Snezana Stojanović Plavsic and Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote – 164, out of 176 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 11, it did not vote – 165, out of 176 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Teodora Vlahovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted the 2nd amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 28, it did not vote – 148, out of 176 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 23, it did not vote 153, out of 176 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 19, it did not vote 157 out of 176 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 21, it did not vote 156, out of 177 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Teodora Vlahovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted the 3rd amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 31, it did not vote 147 out of 178 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 9, 169 of the 178 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. We'll do it again, considering something was wrong with the system. I am launching an amendment vote on Article 5. For – 23, 155 of the 178 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 3, 176 of the 179 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MEPs Teodora Vlahovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 28, it did not vote 152, out of 180 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which is proposed to add a new title above members and members of 5a after Article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 25, it did not vote 156, out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 7, 173, of the 180 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 21, it did not vote 160, out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 17, it did not vote 164, out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 10, 171 of 181 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Snezana Stojanović Plavsic and Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 8, 173, of the 181 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 8, 173, of the 181 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 6th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 9, 171, out of 180 MPs, did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 6, 174 of the 180 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 7, 173, of the 180 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 16, it did not vote 166, out of 182 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – five, 177, of 182 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 6, there were no 175 votes, out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – five, it did not vote 176, out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 8, 173, of the 181 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Nedjo Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that new titles be added above members and Article 9a be added after article 9. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 19, 162 of 181 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 7, v – two, did not vote 172 out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 8, it did not vote 174 out of 182 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – three, it did not vote 179 out of 182 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 18, it did not vote 164, out of 182 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – two, it did not vote 180, out of 182 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 7, 175 of the 182 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Teodora Vlahovic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted the 15th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 29, it did not vote 154, out of 183 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 8, it did not vote 175, out of 183 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Article 17 and Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – three, it did not vote 180, out of 183 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 24, 159 out of 183 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Đuric, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 32, 151 of 183 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on special measures to prevent criminal acts against half-freedom towards minors, in general. For – 173, 12 of the 185 MPs did not vote. With most votes, the assembly passed a draft law on special measures to prevent crimes against semi-freedom towards minors, in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the confiscation of the property of the PROSECTION FROM THE CRIME ACT After the Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the motion for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a crime, in principle. 53 of the 184 MPs did not vote for – 131. The assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment groups of 59 MPs of the SNS Group to Articles 2, 25, 26, 55, 59 and 77 and amendments of MPs Zlata Djeric to Article 18, Olgica Batić to Article 28 and together by Slobodan Veličković, LJubice Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic to Article 24. Also an integral part of the bill's proposal became an amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 54 and amendments submitted jointly by MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic to Article 82, given that the proposing representative accepted them during a particular search. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 35, it did not vote 147 out of 182 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Svetislava Bulajic, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 22, 162, of 184 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – three, he did not vote 181, of 184 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 7, 176 out of 183 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – five, it did not vote 178, out of 183 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For - four, it was not 179 out of 183 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 11, there was no 170 vote, out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 8, 173, of the 181 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić together submitted the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, 169 out of 181 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – five, it did not vote 176, out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – four, 177, of 181 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 6, there were no 175 votes, out of 181 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – three, it did not vote 180, out of 183 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 9, it did not vote 174 out of 183 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 8, it did not vote 176, out of 184 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – five, it did not vote 180, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 6, 179 out of 185 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to Article 49. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 7, 178 of the 185 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 7, 179 out of 186 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. The vote was not 186, of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. It did not vote – 186, out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Dejan Mihajlov, Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 55th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 10, it did not vote – 176, out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic submitted together to the 56th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote – 174 out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic submitted together to the 56th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote – 174 out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote – 173, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Dejan Mihajlov has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 57 be added after article 57. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote – 173, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic submitted together to the 58th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote – 173, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Zlata Djeric submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 11, it did not vote – 174 out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 6, it did not vote – 180, out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment to Article 63 of the amendment was sent by Parliament to Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 7, it did not vote – 179 out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 82nd amendment was submitted by Parliament member Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 8, it did not vote – 178, out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion for a law to confiscate property from a felony, in general. For – 135, it did not vote – 51, out of 186 MPs. Most of the votes were adopted by the assembly by the draft law on the confiscation of property arising from the crime. We move on to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organizations in the Restraint of Organised Crime, Corruption and Other Specially Hard Crimes Since the Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious crimes, in principle. For – 133, it did not vote – 54, out of 187 MPs. Most of the votes were accepted by the National Assembly by the draft law in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Milica Radovic jointly submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote – 175, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious crimes, in general. For – 134, it did not vote – 54, out of 188 MPs. The assembly passed most of the votes a bill amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, corruption and other particularly serious criminal offences. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CRIME PROCEDURE Since the Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in principle. For – 134, it did not vote – 54, out of 188 MPs. Most of the votes were passed by the assembly by the draft law in principle. Since the Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment that was submitted jointly to article 1 by Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 11, the abstention – one, did not vote – 176, of 188. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Svetislava Bulajić, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 17, it did not vote – 172, out of 188 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. For – 135, it did not vote 53, out of 188 MPs. The assembly adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and REFERENCES After the Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in principle. For – 177, there were no 11 votes, out of 188 MPs. The assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendment MPs: together, Milice Vojić Markovic, Donke Banović and Aleksandra Pejcic to Article 2 and Biljana Pantic Pilje to Article 2. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 8, it did not vote 180, out of 188 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Elvira Kovac, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 13, it did not vote 174 out of 187 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 21, it did not vote 166, out of 187 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 19, it did not vote 168, out of 187 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Bojana Bozanic, Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 15, 173, of the 188 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 13, it did not vote 175, out of 188 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Bojana Bozanic and Milan Lapčević together submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 13, it did not vote 175, out of 188 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 2nd amendment, with correction, was filed by Ranka Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 11, 177, of the 188 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in general. For – 181, 8 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly passed a bill on amendments to the Labour Act. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – Proposal for an IMPROVALITY LAW After the Assembly has conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, in principle. For – 142, 46 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, 171, out of 187 MPs, did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Snezana Stojanović Plavsic and Vesna Kovač submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 16, 171, out of 187 MPs, did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, MPs Mirjana Dragas, Stefana Miladanovic, Vesna Jovicki and Đorđe Milicevic, together MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahović and together MPs Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić, together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 35, 153, of the 188 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For – 12, it did not vote 176, out of 188 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of Snezana Stojanović Plavsic and Vesna Kovač, together MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahović, together MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović and Bojana Božanić and joint MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 59, it did not vote 129 out of 188 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Mirjana Dragas, Stefana Miladanovic, Vesna Jovicki and Djordje Milicevic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 27, it did not vote 160, out of 187 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 12, it did not vote 175, out of 187 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Teodora Vlahović, together by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović and Bojana Bozanić, together by MPs Mirjana Dragas, Stefana Miladinović, Vesna Jovicki and Đorđe Milicevic and together by Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 67, it did not vote 119 out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 10, it did not vote 175, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 10, it did not vote 175, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 17, it did not vote 168, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in general. For – 158, 27 of the 185 MPs did not vote. The assembly passed a draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a CONCLUSION AND EXECUTION OF INTERNATIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS After the Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, and before we move to the vote, I remind you that Article 105 paragraph 3 of point 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, found that the assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts. I put to the vote the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts in principle. For – 129, v – 9, there were no 47 votes, out of 185 MPs. With the majority of the votes of all MPs, the assembly accepted the draft law in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of MPs Dubravka Filipovski to Articles 2, 8 and 20, Donka Banović and Milos Aligrudic to Articles 2, 4 and 10, Sande Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović and Slobodan Samardžić to Article 7, Donka Banovic to Article 9 and Zlata Djeric to Article 14. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. MPs Miroljub Stojcic and Djordje Milicevic submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 61, it did not vote 123 out of 184 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Donka Banovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the 5th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -11, 172 out of 183 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 10, it did not vote 172, out of 182 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudic and Slobodan Samardzic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 10, it did not vote 174 out of 184 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Slobodan Samardzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 8, 177, out of 185 MPs, did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudic and Slobodan Samardzic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 10, it did not vote 175, out of 185 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 7, 179 out of 186 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Representatives Donka Banovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -11, it did not vote 175, out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Miroljub Stojcic and Djordje Milicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 19, it did not vote 167 out of 186 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Donka Banovic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of 19a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -11, 176 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs tabled an amendment to Article 20. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 123, 66 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The assembly has accepted this amendment. MPs Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Slobodan Samardzic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -11, 176 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Slobodan Samardzic and Milos Aligrudic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of 23a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For -11, 176 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Mr Vladimir Ilic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 11, 177, of the 188 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Milos Aligrudic, Donka Banovic and Slobodan Samardzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 11, 177, of the 188 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 25th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 7, 181 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The assembly did not accept this amendment. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. It did not vote 189, out of 189 MPs. The assembly did not accept this amendment. Before we move to a decision on the draft law in general, we will repeat the vote on Article 20. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Foreign Affairs Committee tabled an amendment to Article 20. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For – 127, it did not vote 62, out of 189 MPs. The assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, in general. For – 128, v 10, did not vote 51, out of 189 MPs. The assembly adopted the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. Since we are now moving to a decision on the draft laws on the approval of international contracts, or agreements, points 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the approval of the Agreement between the Members of the Family of the DIPLOMATIC-Consular Representations I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the employment of members of the staff of diplomatic and consular offices Za – 132 did not vote 56 of the 188 MPs. The assembly passed the bill with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel on the Employment of Members of the Family of the Diplomatic or consular staff I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Israel on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic or consular staff, in general. For – 165, it did not vote 23, out of 188 MPs. The assembly passed the bill with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Protection and Exchange of Secret Data I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and exchange of classified information, in general. For – 147, 41 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The assembly passed the bill with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on Police Cooperation I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on police co-operation, in general. For – 165, it did not vote 22, out of 187 MPs. The assembly passed the bill with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 13th Point of the Agenda – PROPOSING THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES OF THE COURT AGENCY ON CORRUPTION As the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before we move on to a decision, I remind you that the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, at a session on 14 March 2013, when considering the proposal for a candidate for the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, concluded that the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, the Supreme Cassation Court, the DRI, together the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Data and the Law Chamber of Serbia, had submitted proposals as mandated promoters, the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Committee in accordance with Article 9. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Associations of Journalists of Serbia, Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia and the Union of Journalists of Serbia have not submitted a proposal to elect members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee in accordance with Article 9 of Item 9 of the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. That provision of the Law found that the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia is proposing a member of the Agency's Committee through a joint agreement, which is why there is no legal basis for the National Assembly, on the basis of those individual proposals, to elect a member of the Committee of the Agency proposed by the Associations of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, within the meaning of Article 9(2) of point 9 of the Law. In line with the above, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, decided to propose to the National Assembly to consider the following proposals for the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee: a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly to elect Dr Zoran Stojljković, professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade; a proposal from the Supreme Cassation Court to elect Nikola Stanojevic, Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia in Pension; a proposal from the DRI to elect Prof. Dr. Evica Petrovic, Rector of the University of Nis; a proposal from the Citizens and Trustee for information from the public importance and protection of personal data on the person to choose as a member of the Committee of the Agency, Professor of the Law Faculty of the University of Belgrade; a proposal for the Bar Association of the Board of the Board of the Board of the Board of Justice for the Court of Justice of Serbia. I note that the current members of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee, elected on the proposal of the approved promoters on 18 March 2009, suspended the mandate on 18 March 2013. Before we move to the vote, I remind you that each candidate is voted separately, as well as that according to Article 105 paragraph 1 15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly decides by majority of the votes of all MPs to elect members of the Agency's Committee. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly to elect Dr Zoran Stojljković, professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade as a member of the Agency's Committee. For – 129, one, abstentioned – two, was not voted 57, out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly elected Dr Zoran Stojiljkovic, professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade, as a member of the Agency's Committee, to most votes. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Supreme Cassation Court to elect Nikola Stanojevic, judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia retired as a member of the Agency's Committee. For – 132, the abstention – one, was not voted 56, out of 189 MPs. The assembly elected Nikola Stanojevic, judge of Serbia's Supreme Court retired, as a member of the Agency's Committee, to most votes. I would like to vote on the DRI proposal to elect Professor Dr. Evica Petrovic, director of the University of Nis as a member of the Agency's Committee. For – 129, 56 of the 185 MPs did not vote. The assembly was elected by Prof. Dr. Evic Petrovic, the Vice-President of the University of Nis, as a member of the Agency's Committee, to most votes. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Citizens' Protector and Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection to elect Dr Branko Lubarda, professor of the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade as a member of the Agency's Committee. For – 137, 50 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The assembly selected Dr Branko Lubardo, professor of the University of Belgrade Law Faculty, as a member of the Agency's Committee, most of the votes. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Serbian Bar Association to elect Zoran Vujic, a lawyer as a member of the Agency's Committee. For – 135, it did not vote 54, out of 189 MPs. The assembly elected Zoran Vujicic, a lawyer, as a member of the Agency's committee, most of the votes. Let me, on your behalf and on your behalf, congratulate the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency and wish them successful work. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Deputy Commissioner for Information against Public Meaning and the Protection of Personality Data Since the Assembly has carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 33(1), The Law on free access to information of public importance, the National Assembly elects the Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the choice of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data. For – 144, 44 of the 188 MPs did not vote. With the majority of votes of all MPs, the Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy trustee for information of public importance and protection of personality data. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKETAL COMMITTEE TO CONCERN THE ACTIVITIES ON THE WAY OF CONSTRUCTION OF THE FUNDS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE AUTONOMAL SUPPORT OF COS AND METOCHY IN THE PURPOSE OF 2000. Until 2012. THE year since the Assembly has conducted a unique search into the motion for a decision, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee in order to determine the facts on how the budget of the Republic of Serbia was spent on the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija between 2000 and 2012. For – 171, v – 8, did not vote – 10, out of 189 MPs. The assembly adopted a motion for a decision. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the termination of the decision by the public prosecutor and the higher public prosecutor's office in the new United States After the assembly has conducted a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly decides on the termination of the office of the public prosecutors by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad. For – 133, they did not vote – 54, out of 187 MPs. The assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the office of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a MEMBER OF THE COrupTION AGENCY. Since the Assembly has carried out a search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly exercises the electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal for a Social and Economic Council to elect Dr Bozo Draskovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. For – 129, it did not vote – 58, out of 187 MPs. The assembly selected Boz Draskovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee for Most Votes. Let me congratulate Dr Boza Draskovic on his choice as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee and wish him successful work. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Members of Parliament. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103(6) and Article 10, on the occasion of the submission of MPs to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 3 April 2013, at 20 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Assembly to decide whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For – 11, v – one, did not vote – 145, out of 157 MPs. The Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
