ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12738	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Janko Veselinovic has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 1. The draft law deletes the reasons why this amendment is contrary to Article 39(1) and (2). The RS constitution, because everyone has the right to move freely and live in RS, to leave it and return to it. Freedom of movement and housing and the right to leave RS can be limited by law if it is necessary to conduct a criminal procedure for the protection of public order and peace, preventing the spread of infectious diseases and the defence of RS. Just because the right to work is guaranteed everyone has the right to a free choice of work and all jobs are available under the same conditions. For this reason and because entrepreneurship is freely submitted an amendment in order to avoid restrictions, since the bill proposes that the public notebook must have a place of residence in the municipality, or city decided in the appointment decision as its official seat, and in the decision to appoint a public notary as its official seat and a certain city municipality must have a residence in the area of the city to which the city belongs. In any case, it would be better if the bill said that it was made possible for everyone and that the amendment of the law went in that direction to allow absolutely everyone to perform a public record function, not that there are restrictions. In that sense, I see the amendment as a contribution to the discussion that we will have today or tomorrow the situation in practice and the problem when, with 55 people who have passed a public exam at the moment, we get to the point where we have over 300, 400 or 500 persons with an exam and when we have 300 public notebooks, the question is whether and then we will have a situation to have people from every municipality and every city where we have to perform a public record function. In that regard, I believe that there is a need to think a lot about new amendments and amendments to the law, regardless of whether or not this amendment achieves that purpose. In any case, the amendment submitted should open a discussion – should it be limited that a public record function in a place can only be performed by a person from that place? We have a situation where certain places are geographically close and the question is whether there is an excuse, that if there are no such personnel in one territory, whether or not to prevent or force someone to report their residence on a particular territory just to satisfy the legal conditions, because we will probably have a situation, especially if this bill passes, that the real estate contracts will be required to form in front of a public notary. What if we don't have a public notebook in some place? What if we don't have a man in some place who wants to change his residence and sign up there? The citizen will ask the state to give him the opportunity to verify the contract. It's not a citizen's interest if there's a mood for public notebooks to be in that place. It's not a citizen's interest if the state has a chance for such a thing. I was not a deputy member of the Justice Committee today, but if I were to propose an amendment by the Committee to allow in that part of the intervention, that in places where there are no public notebooks until there are public notebooks to be made possible by the court or by someone else during that transitional period, it would be possible to verify the immobility transport contract. I repeat, the citizen is no matter how organized a service is. It is important for the citizen to be able to do practical work. In this regard, I see this amendment as a contribution to the debate on the very proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Records and as a contribution to the debate, above all, for those amendments that await us. I suppose we are expected to make one more change essential to the possibility of implementing everything in the bill with good intentions so far. The question is whether practice will deny us or demand certain corrections.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12739	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12740	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look back a little on the minister's comment on this amendment in the principle debate. I don't think we understood each other very well when you commented that public notebooks weren't entrepreneurs. It is clear that public notebooks are not entrepreneurs under the Business Society Act, which defines entrepreneurship as doing business, i.e. in order to gain profits. In one broader sense, as defined by the Constitution, entrepreneurs are, i.e. the right of every Serbian citizen to decide on his own business. In that sense, everyone has the right to choose a job, a profession, and also places to do the job. If this is how we interpret the Constitution, that is, Article 83. Position 1 states: Entrepreneurship is free, entrepreneurship can be limited by law to protect human health, environment and natural wealth and for the safety of the Republic of Serbia. So, this is not about entrepreneurs, nor about the STR, it's about entrepreneurship, like a legal framework that gives citizens security to choose a job and a job that they're going to do. In that sense, I believe that entrepreneurship is limited, because in this way the law limits the free movement of people, i.e. the choice of place where the job will be done. According to this law, graduate lawyers who pass a professional exam, who live in Begeč, as I said last time, and want to do the job of a public notary in Backo Palanca, will not be able or people who want to do this job in Raca will not be able to do it. They will have to move with their family to some municipalities where public records may be needed. I don't think that's a good thing, and that restriction is unnecessary. In addition, you have introduced inequality through these amendments and additions of the Law, because you have allowed a graduate lawyer from Batajnica to do this job in Obrenovac, although it is five times the distance of the greater than just before Begeč and Bačka Palanka. So why would someone from Batajnica be able to do this job in Obrenovac, and someone from Begec couldn't do it in Backo Palanca and now I'm not giving you similar examples. In this way, as my colleague Mikovic has well noticed, you will make it impossible for some small, undeveloped municipalities to have public records, because, say, someone will not want to change their apartment in Kragujevac for Rač because he created this family, a circle of friends, etc., will not want to move to Rač or from Rače to Kragujevac. What did you do that for? Unless there is a hidden intention to enable, through the restriction of competition, some people with less knowledge, lower qualifications, through countless commissions to pass this exam more easily. I think that in this section you should consider accepting this amendment because it threatens several constitutional principles. On the other hand, one of the ruling coalition's MPs objected that I may have been a failure, perhaps not a failure, instead of a "guarantee" said "guarantee" and said it was a Croatian term. Members of the ruling coalition, these parliamentary groups, I don't think there are any doubts about the Serbian Progressive Party, for some time the Croats were disturbed, so the Croatian water bothered them, now the Croatian words, such as some other people, on the other side of the border, were disturbed by Serbs, so they were expelled, so now they are bothered by the Serbian language, so they do not allow Cyrillic to be used in Vukovar. It's part of the same story, and unfortunately you didn't Europeanize yourself through the fact that you cheated on voters, and through a story about your patriotism and patriotism you came to meet the conditions set before you. So much for the language dimensions of this law. In my opinion, Serbian and Croatian languages do not differ much. There are many of those linguists who say it's the same language, but there are many Serbs who speak the same language and ultimately, it's wealth, not Serbian poverty. I will return to this amendment and say that freedom of movement and freedom of residence is a fundamental constitutional principle and that, Minister, when amending and supplementing the law, you should in some way consult the highest legal acts of the country, which is the Constitution. I don't think it was necessary to introduce such a restrictive provision into the law. She has, I must admit, been in a milder version in the previous Law, or the law that we are changing now, and I must admit that I didn't like that provision either, but this way you create an imperative for people to have to change their place of residence in order to perform the public record function that we need, which we need. I don't think the application of this law should have been delayed, because we have a lot of problems in the judiciary, a lot of problems. Our courts are buried, they'll have to solve a lot of problems. The fact is, for example, that these days the packages buy votes in Serbia, that the Serbian Progressive Car Party offers packages etc. It's all gonna have to be settled by the courts. It would be about this amendment, of course I will be involved in other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12741	Thank you. Just to ask you, Mr. Veselinovic, do you want the head of the parliamentary group to say no to your time? Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: No, from the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand when a MP wishes to achieve some political success wants to accuse his political not enemies, but opponents of doing something. As for the purchase of votes, the Serbian Progressive Party has never done so, nor will it. Like she never ran a dirty election campaign, like the Democratic Party did. What you're losing in all the elections is the Democratic Party's problem, and I wouldn't want to go into it. We didn't cheat on anyone in the election campaign, but the Democratic Party cheated on its voters in 2008, when it won four, five, six terms, so you lost. It's a mistake you have to pay for. Don't accuse us of doing what you did. And if there was a voice purchase by the Democratic Party, we could write books about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12743	Mr. Toskovic, on what basis are you answering? By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12744	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that this point of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Records is misread because the amendment is said to be deleted, because it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 39(1) and (2), which reads - everyone has the right to move freely and live in the Republic of Serbia and to leave it, so that it also returns. I think there's a badly interpreted point one of this draft law on notation, because there's nothing in this that says that someone has no right to move to another city, where they're supposed to work as a notebook. So, the Constitution does not limit this, but only wrongly interpreted this point and the bill, so I ask you that, gentlemen of the lawyers, honor the exceptions, do not misread the amendments and additions of the Law on Records, that they do not misread these laws. The other thing, if we accepted this amendment, all other changes and additions would sort of cancel out, because we need to know where that notebook is going to be, in which city. After all, he'll have to, if he's from Vienna, go to Bucky Palanco, because he'll work there. So it's not any restriction on public notebooks, only they'll have to lay in those cities. This point of the bill has been misread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12745	Thank you. The word is Janko Veselinović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12746	First, I'm gonna go shopping for votes in Srbobran. I'm asking the authorities to examine whether the SNS is buying packages of votes in the Serbbran. Yesterday I was there and people on the streets said it was done. (President: Please, Mr. Veselinović, come back to the topic. I'm just answering. On the other hand, about what Mr. Toskovic said, I don't think Mr. Toskovic understood my intensity well. This member of the Constitution says – everyone has the right to move freely and live in the Republic of Serbia. He says he's free to move, not make him live somewhere. This legal provision makes him, in order to perform his public record function, to move to another place and to report his residence there, so that he can perform a public record function. So, the Constitution says it's moving freely, and here you're forcing it to move. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12747	Thank you. The word is Vuceta Toskovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12748	I didn't misread it, because anyone who passed the exams in the place where he was staying can be employed. That's the only way. In case he goes somewhere else, he has to change his residence. It is free to move, it moves freely, it is not forbidden to move freely in the Republic of Serbia, any city. So it's just a poor interpretation of this Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Registration.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12749	Thank you. The word is Mr. Arsic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12750	Now I'm insisting and asking the state authorities to determine who's handing out packages on the Serbian. Just don't be surprised if you find yours in that story. We don't need that. This government has such results as the SNS, which is the bearer of this government, that we do not need to buy votes. And if we needed it, we'd never do it. Whoever loses has the right to be angry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12751	Thank you. The word is Mr. Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12752	Absolutely, Mr. Arsic, we agree that the authorities are investigating who buys the votes in the Serbian and whether even some MPs, highly positioned in some parties, are doing so. I absolutely ask that it be investigated today, that it does not happen as last time I asked to investigate what happened to the milk, so that after 10 days it will be a topic in the government and in the Assembly. I ask today to investigate whether anyone from the SNS and all other parties participating in these elections, and we know that only DS has entered all three municipalities in the second round, is buying votes for packages.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12753	Now, please, let's get back to the amendment. The word is Mr. Shane, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12754	I think the government and the legislator are quite right not to accept the amendment, in that sense, that no one makes anyone go to work. If anyone wants to work in Belgrade, they go and apply to Belgrade because they're simply looking for a job. If he wants to live there for more than eight days, he has to sign up there, not because someone's forcing him, but everyone else. I don't think anything will bring acceptance of this amendment, nor will it clarify whether Dusko Jovanovic and Slavko Dimic, who share packages in SNS or the Roma Party. No, these two members are members of the DS and another piece of information that needs to be examined, who shares money and packages. Here's one contribution to the discussion, so let the state authorities of the institution who these two people are and whose party they belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12755	Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I'm allowed to speak, I'd like to say something on this amendment of mine. I'm afraid I've been denied the constitutional right to speak, the choir is not, I'm allowed to enter the hall, but I've been denied the right to speak, the right to speak in the way my people do it inside, the right to speak to everyone understand me. I got a warning last night, so now I have to take good care of what I'm gonna talk about, so I might have to read my amendment. So I'm not going to talk about the Croatian language, about the ikkavica, about the Croatian language in particular, because my predecessors said it completely uninterrupted, and I don't think that the Croatian language exists, that it was stolen from Serbian and that's why I won't comment on it. The basic text of the law states that a public notary must have a residence in the area of the municipality, or the city, which is designated as its official seat in the decision to appoint a public notary as its official seat, the public register must have a residence in the area of the city to which that city municipality belongs. I added two words to the amendment for a number of reasons: "or neighbourly." The law provides for every 25,000 inhabitants to be one public notary. Believe it or not, there are smaller municipalities than Belgrade and city municipalities from Belgrade's territory. There are also municipalities in Serbia that don't even count 10,000 people. You have a White Palanca municipality, which I believe does not have 10,000 inhabitants. You have the municipality of Black Grass, you have Lebanese, you have a Bear, you have extremely small municipalities. The reason for my amendment's refusal states that the minister will certainly allow one public notary to be in each municipality and that it will be approximately under the law of 25,000, which means that this second provision of 25,000 laws will not be respected if we have a public notary in each municipality. A big question is whether one public notebook will be passed from each municipality. Not all of them are relatives or the daughter-in-law of the board members, so that passage will be provided for them. There are those from the interior who gave 600 euros, so they didn't pass. He passed every eight. That was their last money. So, there's no guarantee that every municipality in the exam will get one selected public notary, so that this will be respected. That's why I suggested that the notebook could have a residence in the neighboring municipality and that the public notebook function would be in the other one. Each municipality is bordered by at least one or more municipalities 10 to 20 kilometers away. That's some expense, but it's not the most important. I'm asking you, why are we making people change their fictitious residence? In such situations as I have described, when there are not enough of those who have passed, when there are not enough relatives and families of the members of the examination committee, and, for example, miracles on election committees can not be two relatives, but in matters of public records, one can be a member of the commission, and his family can also come to the exams, which is amazing for me, so since there are not many of them in Serbia, there may happen to be many holes, without any public notary. Are we then going to force people to change their residences in a personal card, to meet the conditions and have a place in the territory where they do their own public record duty? One more thing, I wouldn't be in this minister of justice's shoes. This minister of justice has a lot to fix that's wrong, to be right. This law and this amendment lead in that direction. So he inherited a lot of these problems. I believe he will be just and will deploy public records to the municipalities, to be as close to the citizens as possible. But, let's say, if someone else comes in, so if someone else manages to select the committee in question, in the way that it's been the case so far, so if we have public notebooks as MPs, if we have one half of Belgrade, I ask -- how in Serbia at all, public notebooks, will do their job? I wonder if we don't regulate this with my amendment, how is this future minister going to treat public notebooks in their seats? I believe this one will determine that where the public notebook has passed, where there are 25,000 inhabitants, I believe this minister will determine that it is a public notary place. Given that this is his right under the law, I wonder, as they were previously very just, whether the future will respect what this minister will most likely respect. Therefore, given the previous rule of law and in view of the fact that the government is replaceable, that no one guarantees that in this constitution the Government will survive, that these people will remain in the Ministry of Justice, that the committees will be just, that we can go back to the old ones, so that they can be public notebooks, that in this public record they will be filled with relatives, families, etc., I have suggested this amendment, that even if it is not accepted, there will be no great harm, that public notation duties and that public notebooks of their obligations will be carried out and that they will be as close as possible to the citizens. But I'm afraid it could be a big problem in the future. I wouldn't talk about buying votes and packages because in May, in India, eight thousand were shared, and I would really like to know who shared them. I'm afraid I'll never know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12757	Thank you. The word is Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12758	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a violation of dignity. You allowed Mr. Risticevic to pronounce a thesis that is still unacceptable to parliament, arguing that there is no Croatian language and that it has been stolen. He said that, of course, in the form of his personal conviction. I believe both in human rights and in freedom, and also in freedom of opinion and speech, but democratic society has limited the rights of others and constitutional provisions. Our Constitution, Rules of Procedure, the Law on the National Assembly prohibits speaking in this way in the National Assembly, and I also think you have a special obligation, and you and this Parliament, that you especially sanction this kind of misrepresentation of other peoples or other languages in the days as this one is. You know, it's 20 years from the Squirts crime today. In this crime, some people were killed, exclusively because of their national, religious belongings, including language belongings. Not only are they, in wars in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, many people have been killed solely because of their personal properties, even because someone else was convinced that they believe in a God who does not exist, that they belong to a nation that does not exist, which is invented, or a language that has been invented and stolen. If you allow Mr Risticevic to do this, it will also be an encouragement to those who in some other parliaments, perhaps in the parliament of Croatia or in other neighbouring parliaments, are trying to deny the existence of a Serbian people or Serbian language or Serbian tradition. I ask you to prevent this kind of behaviour in parliament, with all due respect to Mr Ristic's personal beliefs, but there is still a thin but very significant difference between freedom of opinion and what, however, you are allowed to express as your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12759	Thank you. I ask all MPs that we really respect the Rules of Procedure and that in our speeches we respect the dignity of this house. Mr. Risticevic, I will give you the right to a replica, since you are mentioned directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12760	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, linguists, scientists say that, and I think so. So I think it came to Croatian by stealing Serbian and because only Latin marks were taken. It is my right to think, it is my right to doubt, and your right is not to restrict me in that, to restrict my rights to your rights. It is your right to think that the Serbian language has even come from Croatia. That's what I give you for right, but I don't agree with you. Also, if you disagree with me and disagree with the part of the profession, not only with me, that the Croatian language came from Serbian, therefore, that all the norms that Vuk Karadzic said and wrote were fulfilled, therefore, that only latinic labels were considered by linguists, experts, not just me. I just think that language came from stealing Serbian. There's nothing wrong with that. They stole us not once, they stole us more than once. That's what I think and I have my right. I have the right to be funny to you because I'm different, but I also have the right to laugh at you because you're all the same to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12761	Mr. Guric, I'm not going to give you the right to a replica. We really need to get back on the agenda. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic and MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12762	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for starting with the legal certainty that was one of the arguments, Mr. Minister, which you pointed out here when you were talking about the need to create a mandatory form of contract that is available in terms of immovableity. Here's what legal certainty is in one country when one language of a nation is denied, once brotherly, once a part of the SFRY, one common state, therefore, of a neighbouring country now, which we need and how we need, if we really want to continue that path towards European integration. They offer us help in the form of some documents that they will give us, which they have already translated and simply come out to meet us and help us. So that's the legal certainty that you, Mr. Minister, thought of, and among other things, that includes, I suppose, the guarantee of every private property. Among other things, the Constitution guarantees protection of private property. However, what is legal certainty regarding private property, when this parliament votes, for example, one law delegating the provisions of the Expropriation Act, and all in favour of one of the company's shorts owned by a single foreign state company? So it is a element of legal certainty. This legal certainty also includes that you have one clear record of immovableity, and what security it is, if that record is no longer in the jurisdiction of the courts, but is in the jurisdiction of the Republic Geodetic Institute, when more about the registration of real rights are not solved by judges, than by administrative workers. That is why it is possible, Mr. Minister, that multiple sales of immovable property happen and that the state is not doing what it is obliged to do, so it does not protect the legal order and does not protect legal certainty, it does not necessarily mean that the bad consequences should be suffered by citizens. Therefore, it is simply not an argument that you no longer allow real estate to be done by citizens on your own free will, whether by hiring a lawyer or by doing so alone. You are talking about that economic sustainability is also important for the functioning of public notebooks and that this is also why more contracts cannot be concluded freely, but only through public records, it is also a transfer of all obligations and its burden to citizens, i.e. taxpayers. So you think you're building a public record system by transferring all that burden to the citizens. You are unable to enable and improve legalisation, you are unable to complete the issue of immovableity records through the immovableity catastra, or RGZ, you are unable to create one clear transparent and accurate record of all immovableities. Here, and the law that will soon arrive on the agenda of this Assembly, which envisions legalisation for 100 euros, shows this comedy and this indifference that you generally have towards private property, which is to this member of the proposed law, you are jeopardising both private property and freedom of availability of citizens with your immovable property.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12763	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12764	Dear colleagues and colleagues, our colleague Nenad Konstantinovic has submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill also submitted an amendment to Article 3 which is linked to the next situation. It is obvious that I am the draft law, regardless of certain obligations under the uniform methodological rules for the making of regulations regarding the content of the reasoning where Article 59 provides that the law itself has an analysis of the effects of the regulations. I do not think that the overall situation that can arise on the ground, i.e. in certain parts of Serbia, in terms of the possibility of overing, i.e. the formation of an immovable transport contract. Because, that an analysis of the effects of the regulations is made in detail, the truth has more time to do so if there is a delay in the application of this law for the next period of one year, or for the next period of six months if another amendment of Mr Konstantinovic, who has proposed to postpone the application of this law by 1 September 2013, is accepted. We can get into a situation where simple jobs that are interested in citizens and legal persons can't be done. With all understanding of the need to stimulate in a certain way a number of potential candidates to pass a public exam and a number of candidates who claim to be after taking a public exam and public notebooks and in this sense create a certainty for doing a large-scale job that would also provide a solid existence for public notebooks and their families. I don't think we have any evasive effects of the regulations if it comes into effect right now. Will we have a situation that due to objective inability one part of Serbia will not be covered by a public record service? What do you do then? Because at this point, there is an opportunity to verify the contract and that part is not detailed again, in terms of contract verifications or contract verifications, in terms of making up the public record where the contract itself is entered and the content of the contract itself. We can come into a situation that simply in places where an objectively cannot be found a public notary, with a residence in a place where he would work, in places where there are now basic courts, where there are places where there are places where a real estate contract can be verified, true signatures on a real estate transport contract, but that real estate contract if it is certified in court is valid and can cause effects in legal traffic. If we don't have a public record in some place where we're going? Are we going to delegate a certain public notary to get the job done for the citizens, and it's not all defined in the bill. That is why I see this problem, so here as a problem I am running for all of you and for the executive power, for the representatives of the Ministry, for the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which way we will when the law begins to apply, when we have 100 public notebooks and when we have a chamber, whether we have 300 public notebooks or more than 300 public notebooks, and whether these 300 public notebooks will be so geographically distributed that in every place where there is now a basic court and where we can cover an immovablety contract that we have a public notary. If we don't, that's the problem. That's a problem we don't have out-of-date because in that part we don't have an analysis of the effects of regulations. It may not have been possible to evaluate this at this time, but it should be made clear that we may not have enough input to do so at this point, and this law has been declared a transitional solution until we can solve all these problems in the process, but to be aware of what can happen to us. In any case, I believe that if you accept Mr Konstantinovic's second amendment and delay the application of this law, that is to say, for 1 September 2013, we will need to do so by 1 September. If you accept the Government's proposal to postpone this until practically 1 March 2014, we will have that job waiting for us again. That job is waiting for us to solve it as a problem in the next period. So, in this sense, I do not see this text of the Law on Public Records and with these amendments that are proposed, especially if these changes are adopted in the sense that only a public notary can form a real estate contract in the form of a public record. Have we looked at everything that's possible to appear in practice? I believe that Mr. Konstantinovic's proposal is useful, so that we do not rule out the possibility that even the basic court will verify the real estate contracts, and that perhaps in any subsequent period until 1 March of the following year, whether by 1 September of this year or any other date when the law is applied, that until then, if we go with the proposal that only a public notary can do this, to solve all issues, that no citizen will be in a situation that he can't verify the transport contract with immobilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12765	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12766	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I ask you to try now not to experience that the opposition MP DS is speaking to you, but is told by a man who comes from Kruševec, a national MP who has been elected to Kruševec and Ćiæevec. Well, let's see what practical implementation of this law and the application of this law in practice in the territory of the Rasin district, say the town of Kruševac and Cicevic, who, among other things, chose me as a MP. If we accept the amendment, a respected colleague of Constantinovic, which I think is very good and acceptable, we will warn certain problems. If we don't accept that amendment, these problems continue to live with this law. A good legislator must provide for all circumstances that can be applied by one law to produce on a specific territory. Now I ask you, who tells us, since we only have 55 notes, and this law will provide for the possibility of notaries being active only in the territory where they have their residence, who guarantees that the first 45 notes will be notaries that may cover the territory of Barvarin and Cicevic? We will certainly, because of the construction of this channel of Dunav-Stalić-Solun, have interested individuals to sell their properties and apartments in the territory of the municipality of Cicevic, and people will want to verify the agreement on the purchase of immovable property. Who can now legally serve them if they do not have a notary on the territory of the municipality of Cicicec? Maybe someone's gonna want to sell their house for port captainship in Stalac, and we can have another unpleasant situation there. Since the notaries are not networked, how can we warn the situation that one of the same properties is not sold twice? I'm asking you, are these notaries' offices networked into a common server? We passed the law, like DS here, voted for it, I think even his colleagues at SNS then supported it, which warned the possibility of buying apartments and selling apartments, that one seller repeatedly sold the same property to certain people. Now if we have two notaries in Kruševec, who guarantee me that I did not go to one notary, and some other interested party at the other notary, certified the contract to buy real estate, and at the same time sold twice and allowed two people to sign up as owners. I ask again, who guarantees that within the next year we will receive a notary from Barvarin and Cicevic, or possibly Alexandrovec and Bruce. Does this mean that these people won't be able to perform any activity of the type of buy-over? Also, I have so far had the opportunity to, by respecting the legal experience of my colleague Mikovic, or my godfather, Nenad Constantinović, come and get me a legal contract and then come to court and say, this is a contract that I sign with a B,C person and now I want to verify that contract, or I will now be forced to write that same contract to me and verify, without being able to choose who will write this contract for me. I again underline who guarantees me that I will receive a notary in Kruševec in the next two years. Just because we have two commissions to take or three or four, doesn't mean someone from Kruševec will pass the notary exam. Does this mean that we should be sanctioned in Krusevec because we do not have a notary and we do not have the opportunity to access the institutions of the Republic of Serbia system, although we pay taxes, we have all the rights as citizens in any other part of Serbia. I don't think that these things are properly taken into account and I think that this is how the possibilities are created and the assumptions that citizens are prevented from accessing certain institutions, that citizens of Cicevic, Kruševac, Brus, Alexandrovac, are being created, that these people will not be able to perform certain tasks and that certain legal actions are being carried out, because they do not have access to a particular institution called the court notary and have no place to verify their contracts. So I would ask that we really take account, and I believe in Mr Selakovic's legal knowledge, I am convinced that you will find a model to warn this, but I would like to warn this model now in law, not that after a month, again when practice shows that the law does not live, that the law is chromium, ineffective, we have another amendment to the law where all these things I am now talking about are being implemented in some changes to this law. So I really ask to take care of all the things that life in Serbia imposes when it comes to notaries, to see how we will warn that these notaries in the next two years are properly territorially deployed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because I have no spare city, I have defined myself to live in Kruševec, there I have found the colors of my sky, it is the most beautiful place to live, and if I don't find a notary there, does it mean that tomorrow I should move from Kruševcda or Cicivac, because I am absolutely confident that this waterway of Belgrade-Stalac-Solun, will improve the quality of people's lives, that there will be needs for a load of these contracts, for certain activities. So I ask you, on behalf of the citizens and I demand on behalf of the citizens of Rasin County to take care of this and make sure that the next day we people living south of Belgrade and who have decided to make ourselves professionally available, I have the authority to access the institutions of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12767	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12768	The esteemed chairman, fellow MPs, listening to everything, calling, critics, which are currently on the bill, seems to me to be something that involves criticism of hypothetical variants. To these hypothesiss, in no way can we react in the way my fellow Members react, so before we are all aware that it is a law that is actually a pilot project and until the effects of this law are in practice, it is only then that we see whether what is proposed to the amendments can be applicable or not. Starting with the fact that the law has already predicted that a notary comes to 25,000 inhabitants, then there is a solution. In the territory of the Zlatibor district we have municipalities that are very close to each other, Nova Varoš, Prepolje, Chatina. All three municipalities have a total of 25,000 inhabitants. In any event, there is no possibility of inaccessibility on the territory of any of these three municipalities, for one public notary. On the other hand, the question arises, how to prevent the possibility that abuses are committed through legal affairs and that the responsibility of the public notary is clearly defined, that abuses are committed. The public should know, and the MPs are even better, that this law cannot cover everything, which must otherwise be covered by sublegal acts, primarily by rules relating to the work of chambers in which public notebooks, or notaries, will be registered. Exactly, these chambers will have the records that are normally required, in order for citizens to feel that legal certainty and so that one immovableity does not happen multiple times. Finally, if it is taken in a comparative way, and so must be observed, neither the territory of the network of courts, nor in any case implies covering the entire territory, so that even now many municipalities remain without courts, without judicial units, so the question is asked, if this amendment were analysed in the right way that the Court of Justice would not exist, some imaginary court has confirmed any agreements as proposed by this amendment. No, but a public notary, or notary, will be able to do so in a territory that covers exactly the area where 25,000 inhabitants live. The conclusion could be simple. This law gives space without imposing that anyone is moving from the territory of a municipality to another municipality, that anyone is forced to register his residence in order to perform a public record function, that this public notary function is done in the spirit of this law for the purposes and in the interests of citizens whose public record is in the sense of this law and how necessary, not to say the necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12769	I'd close the line. Indeed, he didn't mention you directly. Mr. Mikovic and Mr. Milivojevic called. I can only tell you that if you want to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12771	The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12772	I believe it is the duty of every MP to, if he sees the problem, take it out immediately and share it with anyone who can help solve a particular problem. I'm not saying that anyone can immediately analyse all possible effects, the regulations that are being passed, because when you enter the process of passing the law, you have to have "extante" analysis, which means what's going to happen. Furthermore, when the law is passed, when it starts to apply, you have an "expost" analysis of what the effects of the regulation are and where the bottlenecks are. If it's possible to stimulate something, to see ahead, to predict, to see certain risks, it's okay to divide them immediately and reach a solution. The fact is, at this point, a member of the 181st basic text of the law is also in force. That is to say, at the end of two years, the start of the application of this law, the legal transactions referred to in Article 83(1) of this Law must be made up in the form of a public record or certified, in accordance with Article 93 of this Act. This is about the traffic of immovableity, among other things, it's in point 1. — contracts on the availability of immovable property, i.e. a public record, but also an overa in accordance with Article 93. From now on, they're going to need a public record. I can't see that neither the current text of the law nor the amendment and the supplemental proposal contains all the clarifications that are needed to apply the law uninterruptedly. In Article 1 of the bill, which we have just set off, but is related to this, we have that the public notebook must have a residence in the area of the municipality or city which is written in the decision. It is not envisaged, and this should be detailed and clear, even linguistically written, that if a public notary is determined by one, two, three municipalities, then it can have a place in the area of one of those three municipalities that it covers or we are aware that each will have its own public notebook, which should be defined again in a certain way. I believe that neither in the present, nor in this proposal that part is not precise and that is why it is my discussion, I suggest that it be understood as a contribution to future solutions which, I am aware, there is no possibility that we can solve today. I wasn't informed of today's board session, because certain proposals I had, even in writing, were for procedural reasons we weren't in a position to suggest, that the board be a proposing something like that. Now, what I'm saying is, I'm going back to Article 2 and that's Article 82 of point 5, where real estate contracts are now, that part is being deleted -- people who are commercially incompetent. Therefore, fixed-state contracts do not apply what was now in force under Article 181 of the basic text of the law. So it has to be in the form of a public record, it has to be a public notebook, not only to verify the signature but also to the content. If it confirms the content, we need to be aware of everything that can cause it. I will discuss this in more detail when we discuss Article 3 of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12773	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12774	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have answered my word only to remove one misunderstanding, possibly, which I believe has been created by a stroke. In fact, we do not create such changes to the Public Note Act where municipalities in which fewer inhabitants live, there are also municipalities that have fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, where nursing households, where continuing departures of people from these passive areas are present, that because they will not be found anyone interested in living in that municipality will remain without a public register, and therefore without possibility, in this case, if we talk about real estate contracts and without the possibility of forming that contract in the form of a public record. Why? I urge you to systematically interpret the norm, and read the Public Note Act next Article 17, which defines the official area of the public notebook. This is clearly the official area of the public register, which covers the area of the basic court in which the official seat of the public register is located. Therefore, this question cannot be interpreted in isolation. For what reason? Let's say, here's what you were talking about. Cicevic is currently located in the main court area in Kruševec. Notar, which is a public notary, will be appointed in the town of Kruševec, will have an official area in both Cicivec and Varvarin. If, in the meantime, a court is formed through the change and addition of the judicial network that follows us, for example, in Barbarino for the area of Barvarin and Cicevic, it would be hypothetically a notary that would be in Barvarin. Therefore, there is certainly no room for anxiety among citizens that if we transfer something to the authority of the public notary, that where there will be no public notary in that particular municipality, there will be no possibility of this particular jurisdiction being carried out. Therefore, look at Article 17 and Section 1, the official area is defined, and this is the particular article that regulated this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12775	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12776	Dear Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I say again don't think of me as an opposition MP, now consider me as a man living in Krusevec, and it covers, say, this Cicevic. I very much respect Mr Nedja's presentation, which he said - we cannot hypothetically predict what life will impose as a solution. There are capable people living in Kruševec, that's a fact. There's a lot of evidence for that. Who guarantees that in the next six months or a year, among these hundred notes there will be someone from Kruševec? Will the one running and applying to be a notary, will they pass? On the other hand, who, hypothetically, once again removes such a possibility for other cities? We can't predict whether they'll be in competition for the notaries of the people of Chajetina, Nova Varoshi, Prepolje or any other place and whether they will pass. Again, the question arises, if we open up the court department in Varvarin again and if we have the territorial jurisdiction of the Varvarin court in the territory of the municipality of Cicevic, and we have no notary and we do not have a notary in Kruševec, in Vrnjak Banja, anywhere else in Serbia, how will these people satisfy their need to verify a contract? So there's no court, there's no notary, no one's laid down for the notary, does that mean that the contracts in that territory are at rest, or maybe the legislator prescribed some other ones that I can't figure out right now and look at? In particular, from this aspect of hypothetical exposure, the legislator must always predict what life will impose, but no one can do it here in Serbia where there is such creativity for people who need to sign one contract. No one can predict that, believe me. What you've had in law enforcement to see in your practice is books, novels, files, etc. Many lawsuits over the border have ended in a court procedure for murder, but not to prejudge in such a way, life in Serbia and this legal practice that we do not explain in this way. I'm not a lawyer. I finished some biology classes. There, what is hypothetically produced and elaborated by first testing on mice. You know, in the lab first, white mice, so if that goes by, we go after people. Legal sciences don't know that level of experimentation. Such a level of experimentation is not suitable for legal sciences, but it still needs to be predicted as many possibilities as possible of what will happen. Again, I am undermining the question for the end, so that I would be understood – what will happen if no one from Kruševec applies to a notary competition or if he logs in and does not pass and what kind of consequences result in the lives of people in Kruševec, Cicevic, Barvarina and other places of the Rasin County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12777	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12778	Dear Ministers, give us an answer to one simple, simple question – what is your reason for such an imperial norm that makes it impossible for potential notaries to, from one municipality, not to change their residence, or place of residence, to do business in another municipality, say, from Pancheva in Belgrade, Belgrade to Panchevo, etc., perhaps it is only administrative borders and perhaps it is a few hundred meters of administrative difference, which is the basic reason, what would lead to the movement of these people, which is a negative consequence, so I will really be able to accept this attitude that you have just stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12779	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12780	In addition to these topics opened by Mr. Neđo Jovanovic, our esteemed colleague from Užica, a lawyer, mentioning the possibility, which Mr. Minister also mentioned the real situation provided for in Article 17 in the matter of determining the official area, in this sense I have discussed, that if a public notary covers the area of several municipalities, why must it have a residence where the official seat is located? Why can't he have a place in the entire area of the public record's work? So if he has an official seat in a municipality, and he covers that municipality and the neighboring one, he can't have a place next door. Do you realize what kind of problem I'm running to solve in the next period until the law on public notebooks is applied? We can't solve it now. I didn't have the opportunity to come to the Justice Committee where I wanted to discuss it and suggest a solution, but in any case we'll have it in some way if we define that there's a public notebook in the area he's in charge of. Why insist on where the official seat is if it covers two, three municipalities within ten kilometers if he already has an apartment, a family, his children go to school, etc.? He now needs to change from the basic way of life and move three or five kilometers away to satisfy the legal conditions, and perhaps he is an ideal public notary of quality, honesty, value, everything that should be? Let's see if we can solve these things in a way that allows as much competition as possible for potentially good public notebooks and to enable what we've said. Let us also find a possible transitional solution, i.e. to consider that if we see that we cannot cover 300 public notebooks deployed properly and create a network across Serbia, we should allow at least the possibility of verification within the meaning of Article 93 of the basic text of the Public Note Act until we choose a public notebook for each area in Serbia. That's the problem. We don't have to solve it today, but we have to solve it by the time it's applied. If we don't have a solution, we'll get the situation back so that at least an overture of the contract can work where there are no public records. It was my proposal for an amendment that I had not been able to propose to the Committee to propose that in places where we do not have a public notebook for any reason, for such a case, if we do not have another solution or if we do not have the possibility to delegate a public notary from here to elsewhere and to work at least a day a week or any other, so that the citizens are not damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12781	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12782	For the end of this amendment, I would also have a question for the minister and also for the people of the Ministry – is it planned to network the public notebooks' office? Is there a possibility that the public notebook in Krusevec will be networked with the office of his second colleague in Krusevec, if there are two notebooks, because it is the best way to pre-arrange the possibility that some harmful contracts concerning the purchase of immovable property, in particular apartments, should be concluded in such a way that as the owner of an apartment in one notebook I write myself, and in another notary for the same apartment another person. So this is a very important question – whether the notebook offices will be networked, where the server, where there will be a database and how in practice we will be able to warn these very unpleasant opportunities that the legal practice in Serbia has shown several times, especially in the past, which we have in one efficient way, by networking the courts, warned. So the question is, will the server network be developed, will there be a link between the notebook offices in the single system, because if these offices open up like this and as planned, there is a concern that certain immovableities will be recorded multiple times in different notebooks? So the question is, where will the server be, when they'll be networked, until when it's scheduled to network the notebook's office, who's going to oversee it, who's going to run this business, because that's a very important question? That's not an unimportant question in this development at all. I didn't get an answer about what's going to happen to municipalities that don't have any court, no notebooks, and that's what law enforcement needs to do. So, I'm interested in networking the notary's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12783	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12784	Let's start at the end. First, there will certainly be a server that will network all the public records offices and not just each other's offices, but let's say that there are offices with an immovable cadastre, which is a prerequisite for everything. Let's see one example from the parallel right. Believe it or not, the Republic of Albania has exceptional software that they received as a donation from the Notary Chamber of the Republic of France and which has provided them with a unique record of the immovable transport contract. Of course, a chamber must be formed before that. That's what we were talking about. The chamber, the ministry and the courts are the ones in charge of overseeing the work. I don't know what was unclear to you, but I made it pretty clear? Therefore, the official area of the public office covers the area of jurisdiction of a particular basic court. You asked another additional question and thank you for that, Mr. Mikovic spoke about it – why is it not allowed for someone from another municipality to register his office? Well, because it is the final intention of the legislator to get each municipality a public notary. Can you get to that in a year? No way. That is why, through the questions of defining the official area of the public notebook, the problem has been resolved by the time each municipality receives its own public notary. You also have another member who defines the place of performance, which is said to be a public notebook carrying out its work in its headquarters, i.e. The seat where his office is, but the Chamber can determine that he occasionally does his jobs outside his seat. So it's the Chamber that we need here, and when we talked about the lack of sublegal regulation, it's missing in the part that needs to be done by the Chamber. That's why the Chamber needs to be formed. You have that provision, among the transitional and final provisions of the law, where it is said that temporary seats will be set for the first 100 notebooks, until the system is operational. Of course we won't get into a situation where there's no notebook at all. Now, and that's exactly the goal I've explained, and when we talked about the bill in principle, our goal is to motivate people to apply for public notebooks. This gives them a strong motive, because they get one of the most frequent contracts in their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12785	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12786	I'm only setting an example of two municipalities, for example. Opova and Kovačica, in Banat. One notary should cover the assumed case, area and municipality of Opovo and the municipality of Kovačica. Its seat is set in the Municipality of Kovačica. Why can't a public notebook live in Opova and cover both Opova and Kovacs? In that sense, I commented on Article 1 with the best intention that when we have a notebook both for Opova and for Kovacica, great, but until then, not to rule out the possibility, or to make the man from Opov not have to travel, or to live in Kovacica, if his whole family is in Opovo. We can design that for any place in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12787	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Mr. Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12788	Exactly what I just said. Because our ultimate goal is for each municipality to get its own public notebook. Well, maybe at first it can get in the way, like you said, but if this is our ultimate goal, it's something harder to get to it, but it comes that way. Look at how the public record system works. It's mostly going to be that every major populated place that has the status of a local self-government unit has its own public notebook. On the other hand, when we set things up like that, let's look at this irrational judicial network. Imagine a public notebook in Novi Sad. The newly-sad basic court covers the area of the city and 10 municipalities. That's where he comes into that trap, and if he didn't have this provision, it would be a trap to monopolize this profession. Imagine a South Baba County that has about 650,000 inhabitants somewhere. For this very reason, we need both the Frog and the Titel and Bac and Backo Palanka and Baki Petrovac to have their own notebook one day. Let us give this opportunity to develop so that people understand how necessary it is. The time to function will also increase the functional competence of the public notary, and at some point we will gain as the ultimate goal that most municipalities in Serbia have a public notary. Everything else would be just this. Imagine, too, when you look at seats like Belgrade, Novi Sad or some other passive areas, it would be a great abuse. See for example. Zajčar, who has one basic court and which area that court covers. It's something that would lead to this monopolization, and I'm sure it's not our goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12789	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic and MP Nenad Konstantinovic to the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12790	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article is making it impossible for us to comply with the law and in accordance with the existing positive regulations to conclude this contract, or we will go to a public notary and that form of public notebook to make it an integral part of our legal work. This provision indicates that the law was written without taking care of whether the law could be applied. The Immobility Transport Act does not foresee the form that you are now making binding. In fact, you delete that non-binding form from Article 83 of the basic law. It's not the only thing you do that violates some kind of equal importance of all the laws of the positive regulations that are currently in place in this country's territory. You're predicting something that other laws aren't meant to do. This law on records is based on provisions, Mr. Secretary himself said, about twenty laws. Before these laws were changed, this law was passed. It is that it is not yet in application, but it does not mean that it will not be if you keep your word that in a year and I really have no doubt that you will pass the law in the form in which you proposed it and that in one year you will begin to apply the law. That means you'll have to amend at least 20 laws in the next year. These are laws such as the Law on Inheritance, Family Law, the Law on Transport of Immobility and many other laws that are and how important they are, because without these laws, the legal order of this country cannot function. If a law is applied, and it is contrary to the provisions of those laws, then we come into some kind of cohesion. We're coming into this situation to threaten the legal order of the state. Despite the fact that since August of the month you have hardly done anything that this law is really starting to apply, you are asking us to trust not only that you will not only do all the sublegal acts, but all the necessary actions to carry out and realize that the law could be applied and that you will change a series of other laws to comply with this law. That is the huge trust you are asking the opposition to the public and citizens of Serbia. I think it's a little irresponsible because you show your irresponsibility and incomparability by not being ready to talk to MPs from opposition parties at all. You're not ready to listen to good arguments and you're not ready to change that political will that represents one general line of this whole bill. So if you wanted to change something so much in this article 83, you could simply change some members, or some attitudes and dots, and in that case you wouldn't have the obligation to make such a big deal changes and supplement some other twenty laws in a year. You would simply delete certain points, i.e. attitudes in this Article 83, instead of this point 1, which you are now proposing, and in this way you would actually bring into line this law on notation with other laws. It's one logic and it's rational. I really don't see why you applied that radical cut to jurisdiction over the form of a contract available to you about immovableity. There is no argument, not as far as economic sustainability is concerned, nor legal certainty, we have explained this, but there is one clear way that you define yourself in this way for monopolization in the domain of immobilization. You're bringing, in fact, citizens into this situation that one day they'll have big problems if they want to have their own real estates. We see how hard it is to pass a public record exam. We see how hard it is to actually make that magic number out of 100 public notary candidates. This means that even if you get to 100 notes and in that case it's three times less than 300, which by law represent one of the needs of this country, as far as the number of notaries is concerned. That means you won't have a notary on 25,000 inhabitants. You will have one notary on 75,000 inhabitants. You predict, for example, in this regulation that follows the Law on Public Records that 24 notaries in the field of basic courts, First and Second in Belgrade. Now imagine the entire territory of Belgrade with 24 notaries that will have the exclusive responsibility to conclude contracts that are available for immovableity. Here, take a look at the Zrenjanin. Zrenjanin will have the right, it is a city of over 100,000 inhabitants, on three notaries, two notaries I am a city, and one New Vienna. So imagine now a Zrenjanin with two notes and a city that big. At the moment, there are 100, 150 lawyers, all of whom can, know and write contracts and make contracts. You have citizens who know, why don't they know how to write a contract, if they think they'll take that risk and take it freely. So, what kind of monopoly is it that two notaries are going to do this real estate job for you? It's a monopoly. Monopoly, normally, inevitably leads to some problems, and that's what we've mentioned. When you, once a small number of civil servants, allow them to have huge rights, with huge demands from citizens, in which case you simply open up space for many future mistakes, including corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12791	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12792	Mr Nenad Konstantinovic, of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, has tabled an amendment to this member of the bill. In an analysis of this amendment and the text proposed in the bill, I would point to a few facts. Therefore, at this point, if the law were to enter into force now on 1 March and started to apply in 2013, the deadline until 2 September 2014, the legal business referred to in Article 83, which is the conclusion of a real estate contract, would only have to be made up in the form of a public record and certified in accordance with Article 93 of the basic text of the law. What do we have now? The situation that, if the bill was adopted, but on 1 March 2014, and not 2 September 2014, all immovable transport contracts, the availability of immovable property, would be made up in the form of a public record. So we're moving the deadline forward to make something like that. I'm not that optimistic, although I'd like to have a sufficient number of people, professional, with a public record exam and all the other qualities, that they can be chosen as public notebooks, because these 55 who passed the exam, doesn't mean that all 55 want to be public notebooks and doesn't mean that all 55 will pass, let me say, one more filter, whether the minister will name them as public notebooks and, one more thing, whether only the place where they come from will satisfy that they can all be placed, or in some places there will be more people with a public record exam and all the conditions to be public notebooks, and somewhere we won't have. In that sense, I agree with Mr Konstantinovic that we do not have a sufficiently scrutinised analysis of the effects of the regulations in this part, because that we have made it exactly as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – the unique methodological rules for the making of regulations, what should we have in the analysis of the effects of the regulations? Explanations on whom and how it will most likely impact the regulation's solution, what costs it will make for citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, whether the positive consequences of the regulation are such as to justify the costs it will generate, whether the regulation supports the creation of new operators on the market and competition markets, whether all interested parties have had the opportunity to declare the regulation and what measures it will take during the application of the rules to achieve what the rules are intended. I understand the need and speed, so we don't get into a situation to welcome March 1st without this extension being voted, because there are no conditions to apply the basic text of the Public Note Act. But right now, we need to be aware of what we need to have as an analysis of the effects of regulations by the time it's in full application of the Public Records Act. I repeat, you're letting us see in this period, because it will obviously be an extended deadline, to hold a sufficient number of expert meetings, either on the Justice Committee, because I have also proposed to the chairman of the Committee and all the members of the Justice Committee, that we try to look at it on the Justice Committee, and the question is whether we're going to look at everything, all the bottlenecks regarding the application of the law. It won't be that easy. All of us to rise together and without division, the question is whether we're going to get to that situation so that we can fully apply the Law on Public Records. But we need to open these dilemmas in a direct debate and see what is required now that both the content of the contract is controlled in a certain way and made up by a public notary, whether this is possible at this point, or whether we will question the interests of each individual citizen. I do not expect, I do not live in the illusion that the amendments, especially the amendments to the opposition, will be accepted, but I ask you to take this dilemma seriously, because we will have to discuss this before 1 March 2014, if the bill is unchanged, we will have to discuss this. Save the stenographic notes, we'll have to talk about this one more time, just one more time, seriously at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12793	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Constantinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12794	In this part of the amendment of visiting counterpart Nenada Konstantinovic from the DS parliamentary group, I see as a contribution to the basic problem. So it's not a problem whether we have one, two, three commissions or 40 commissions to pass a public exam, but how to enable and stimulate a larger number of people to apply and enter the competition for a public record function. I think the clarification of all these issues that we've been running here to solve, how the public record function will function in the next period, that if we solve all these problems and we have a concrete law that will be applicable, in that sense we'll have enough candidates and then it'll be less important if we have one, two, three or more commissions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12795	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12796	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Regulation, which provides for a way to conduct a public record exam, it is stated what is considered a legal source for the passing of that exam. This includes 14 laws and provides for procedural procedures, litigation proceedings, extra-parnite procedures, security enforcement procedures, and extra-judicial procedures to settle stocks. So it's a very wide legal area. The lawyers who report to you for the competition are graduate lawyers with a legal exam. They're lawyers with a certain legal internship and they're mostly judges, lawyers, prosecutors. So, very serious and professional lawyers. They're people who use these laws in practice, they apply these laws, which you've predicted as material to pass a public record exam. Now this examination committee counts, according to your proposal, five members. You stated that, in addition to the lawyers with the legal exams, the members of the commission are also professors of law school. That might not be a problem if we didn't look at the experience with the commission that has worked so far and which, in fact, has contributed to the fact that, after more than a year, Serbia has no more than 55 lawyers who passed a public record exam. So it's not that problem, in my deep belief, in the candidates, they're all quality candidates. I would not agree with you, Mr. Minister, when you dispute their responsibility and their seriousness. I really can't support you in your opinion, that the public record exam is far more important, far more professional and far higher than the exams passed by all future judges, lawyers and prosecutors, which is a judicial exam. So all these people passed a judicial exam. They passed before the commission that conducted that judicial exam. In that commission could be all those teachers, distinguished professors of law school. Why do we now repeat all of this and allow this possibility for such an action, such as notary, to be questioned again because of some possibility to overlook things that are concrete, which are applied in practice, and all for reasons to give meaning to some of the professors of Law? You see, there is also Mr Oliver Antic, current legal adviser to the President of the Republic. That's the gentleman and the president... (President: Mrs Popovic, please return to the agenda topic. I just have to talk about the members of the committee... (President: There is no need, it is not on the agenda. How could I not? So that is the subject - who is a member of the examination committee, whom the Faculty of Law and which professor, because and how it generates the problem when it comes to whether tomorrow we will have a hundred public notebooks who will be able to simply do the job that is stipulated by law and whether this law will be possible to apply from 1 March 2014. If the President of the Republic Commission is a man of distinction on this committee, the man who proposed to honor a president who is under European sanctions, and the President of Belarus is under European sanctions for human rights violations, is that right, he compromises this country that has a plan and programme, has some policy of European integration – what do we expect from such a member of the examination committee, on a notary exam, if he simply does not see what is the interest of this country in European integration? Will he recognize this country's interest in having 100 or 300 public notebooks tomorrow? Hardly. Let us, then, focus on the fact that the examination committee is made up of lawyers who have passed the judicial exam, who are and how professional and able to assess whether candidates in the public record exam can pass the exam. It is crucial that we remove policy from the issue of public notaries' election, because in such a rigorous and rigorous way you refer to taking a public record exam, you are in fact making it impossible for a wider circle of people to participate, to pass and to compete tomorrow for the place of public notary. It is left at the will of the political elite again to create even public records, to create a whole system of immobilization, to monopolize it. The point is not that there are records of closed immovableity contracts, the point is that you have public books that will take care of what real rights are recorded and how they can be made available with these real rights. I'm sure you won't do it this way. Let's rationalize things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12797	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12798	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a duty to all the members of the committee to report on this exhibit. Here's why. First, the essence of this article is to enable active participation in the work of the examination committee to be carried out by renowned legal experts who contributed to the development by their scientific work, from the scientific, theoretical sides of public records, because they simply did not have opportunities and opportunities in Serbia. You mentioned one of the members of that committee. I am taking the opportunity to point out that the member concerned is Professor Oliver Antic, appointed to the commission before the start of the term of office of this government, whose member I am. I suppose the reason for that was, among other things, that he was one of the first of ours in this period, after the war, a legal expert who wrote on the subject of public records, and let's say, if you look at a manual to pass a notary or public exam in the French Republic, you'll find two of his articles that French notaries have in the mandatory literature to prepare this exam. Was there a crucial political criterion there? Well, he certainly wasn't, because if he hadn't been president of the examination committee, he'd still be a respected professor, Dr. Dragore Hiber. I spoke in the debate in principle and mentioned that unfortunately we do not have a practitioner who deals with this matter and that is why we are forced to rely on professors for the most part. This does not mean that we will not include judges in the commission's work, especially those dealing with outsider matter. There'll be an opportunity to really do it. But I do not accept that there is any politicization when you look at who the members are. He is also a member of the examination committee of the Constitutional Court, Marija Draskovic, a member of Professor Milan Zivkovic, a member of Dr Nebojsa Jovanovic, people who contributed to the development of public law theory in Serbia by their scientific opus, which was the main reference. Unfortunately, he was a member of the examination committee, Professor Ranko Ketch, the New Sad Law School dean. For personal reasons, he resigned, but supported the Commission's further work. I had a conversation with him, so I can go public and say it. I certainly think that there is room and space in the work of this committee for people who deal with theory and science. I am convinced that in the coming period, by popularising a public notary call, we will make more than one commission have its own and how space and materials to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12799	Mrs Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12800	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, just a few things to simplify. It's not a problem with teachers. It's not a problem with their expertise. The problem is in the public record exam the way it is conceived, how it is organised and how it is conducted. There is one analysis missing – why is it that since May last year we couldn't get 100 notes that would allow this law to be applied? You yourself stated that this is the reason, you explained that this law should be passed for that reason. Maybe there's a problem with that commission that was dominant in deciding whether to pass or not. So the question arises – how did this exam take place? Is the problem among other things that may be too insistent on theory and not enough practice? We don't have time to do too much theory. We need practitioners. We need professional public notebooks. Therefore, look and analyze, assess the work of each member of the committee in question, assess regardless of which party he or she belongs to, at which college he or she works, regardless of what political definitions or titles he has. I've listed Mr. Legal Advisor of the President of the Republic because he's the first figure to appear constantly when it comes to the committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12801	Time. Mr. Toskovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12802	The proposal for this amendment is legally unfounded. It's a little discriminatory. I'll prove with an explanation. In the current examination committee, professors of the university prevail. In what way is the right, regardless of the fact that every MP with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has the right to say and write anything, to discriminate against university professors, and that is where the Councilor of the President of the Republic is quoted. It is really unbearable that such amendments exist without responding properly. What does the legislator say in the explanation? I'm reading this for listeners and viewers, educated by the minister. Members of the examination committee shall be appointed by a minister from the ranks of graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam and at least 10 years of legal experience, i.e. from classes of lecturers, co-authors and authors of such a law, law school, positive legal cases covered by the programme of public records exams. Where are we going to find a better test committee than this? That's why I said this amendment was legally unfounded and discriminatory.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12803	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Gordana Komic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12804	Dear Vice President, my fellow Members of Parliament and I of the DS have tabled this amendment that we propose to be in Article 4. The bill added Article 3 which reads -- members of the commission appoint a minister for a three-year period with the possibility of re-naming. This solution already exists in the current text of the law. This bill actually deletes him. We suggest that this solution be returned because we think it is very important for the commission to be elected for a certain period of time without being permanent and for a number of reasons. First, the occasional elections, i.e. by choosing for a period of three years, allow for greater control of the quality of the work of members of the commission and the results achieved by the Commission itself in conducting the exams. Secondly, the suspicions already raised here in the debate are removed in the principle that the ministry and the ruling coalition will place on that committee their staff who will take up those seats and work without a time limit for good compensation. Studies have been known to show that there is a high degree of corruption throughout the judiciary. Continuing the commission increases the risk of spreading the problem of corruption to this part too. Third and fourthly, electivity and exchangeability are one of the basic principles of democratisation of society, and we all swear here that we want to democratisation our society and achieve the level of democratisation that exists in European countries. This would allow the Commission to work better and more efficiently. One of the basic reasons why you said why the law is being delayed is that we don't have enough candidates with a public record exam. The problem is obviously in the commission itself, because if you haven't been able to distract the lawyers in all this time to pass a public record exam and they haven't had a chance, then that means there really is a problem. If you say the exam is very difficult and that's why the lawyers don't answer, then I apologize for insulting the intelligence of the graduate lawyers. There are a lot of my colleagues here who have completed law school within the time limit as I have, who have passed a professional exam to work in state authorities, who I have passed, who have passed a judicial exam that should not be harder than this public record exam. And if there are already so many experts, then it's kind of offensive to say that the exam is very difficult and that's why we don't have enough personnel to pass that exam. I appeal once again, and I suggest that it is really necessary that you do not miss the time as of August when the validity of this law has been extended and that you take all the measures to finally bring this law to life, because it is necessary to relieve the judiciary so that it will no longer happen to us because of the burden of the judiciary, that criminal cases become obsolete and that the proceedings are not carried out within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12805	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12806	Thank you. Along with MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Biljana Hasanovic, I signed an amendment that was just explained. I just want to add that it's one of those amendments that are directly aiding the minister. I know it doesn't seem like it now, but it's not without reason my claim that it is to help the minister, because the amendment looks at a context in which we introduce a new institution in Serbia and enables the minister to do the job well on his behalf, in the name of the ministry he represents, in the name of the party he belongs to and on behalf of the entire government. Why is it important to put the commission on hold? Because we all know how we come up with human resources in Serbia. It is an inevitable phase in a country that builds institutions and where too many people, in all political parties and institutions, are not prone to the rule of law, is not prone to objective rules, but rather to the name and last name that comes from not the political party, but from informal centres of power. The fact that someone will be three years old with the possibility of the minister extending his mandate, neither contesting his credibility, nor in advance saying that the members of the commission will not work, leaves room for the minister to deny himself the negative results he will be responsible for, and will be done on his behalf, not the people who are members of the commission. It's important to watch the context. When you pass laws in developed democracies, let alone in democracies such as Serbia that is being built, in which institutions are being built and in which it is clearly seen as a day that no one loves institutions. I rarely listen to what people say about the rule of law, watch what they do and what they do is not in line with the rule of law, all political parties, all those who take the rule of law into their own dictionary or ideas they want to share. Why is it important to look into the context? Because we have a history of applying the Law on notaries, or the Law on Notaries. There are reasons why it worked in Vojvodina. There are reasons why it was important in Vojvodina, and through generations, it was known whether any married in the Notary House and whether a son was from the Notary Family. There's a reason why it is. All I ask of the minister is that he does not lose sight of the context in which he proposes to appoint a commission and that he no longer has anything to do with the commission, not even when the commission makes decisions beyond what is the rule of law. I'm not saying it's safe for any member of the committee. I want to believe that everyone will work for the rule of law, but I know what they did. I know what they are doing now, not only them, but other people in various places, and there is no reason not to support the rule of law in Serbia by helping the minister to be in charge and to announce in three years the good results of the commission he has appointed and to extend their mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12807	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have submitted this amendment, which we have provided for one candidate to question all five members of the committee in question. We felt that this was entirely justified because you had already reduced the number of members of the examination committee from six to five. In the principle debate, I explained why I felt that this solution was better. First of all, because in this way we ensure that each candidate for a public notary, or candidate for a public register, should have the same legal treatment, or the same treatment when passing that exam, and on the other hand, the possibility of abuse of the properties of a member of the examination committee is eliminated. Those were the reasons why we submitted this amendment. What you wrote in the explanation that you reject this amendment is simply not true. You said that just because there are five members of the electoral commission that it implies that they take the exam before the five-member commission. That's just not true. There is no limit in the law to, say, only two members of the examination committee examine or interrogate one candidate for a public notary. If we're going to be strictly formal, we're absolutely right. On the other hand, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister for a minute's attention, because I don't understand, I've only just seen later, in the bill you're explaining to us, I'm going to read a sentence, and in the fourth law, Article 146 is amended. The Law on Public Registration by providing that the examination committee for a public examination is to include five members, instead of six, as is now prescribed, with one candidate to question all five members of the commission. That's what you stated in the light of this law. So, now, as an applicant of the amendment, I don't see what's wrong with our amendment that we've submitted, which is in complete correlation with what you intended and what you wrote in the bill. Please give me an explanation which is why our amendment refuses this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12809	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12810	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Radovic, I am convinced that my argument that your amendment will be accepted will be satisfactory. So, on behalf of the promoter, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12811	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12812	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, it's a good thing you accepted our amendment. In this way, it simply eliminates the possibility of some of the abuses that may have occurred during an earlier period. It is normal for five members of the commission to pass the exam. As far as we're concerned, given the competence of the notaries and the seriousness of the selection of notaries and the fact that you appoint an examination and competition committee, to choose the first 100 notaries, we thought it would be a good idea to accept this amendment, which you finally did. This will contribute to a cleaner, more responsible and better application of this law. It is that this is the only amendment you have accepted, but it can contribute to a better application of this law. On that side, we believe that this text of the law will be better with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12813	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Professor Dr Janko Veselinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12814	Thank you, Chairman. If you'll excuse me, I would also be using part of the time of the authorised representative, so I would like to use this amendment that I have spoken a few words and a few amendments submitted by the DS. I planned to begin the exhibition by criticising the minister, who of all the opposition amendments did not accept any single amendment. Now the minister has denied me, yet accepted one amendment. I certainly can't criticise that, but I'm still staying with criticism over the fact that he hasn't accepted any DS amendment. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the DS concerns the number of committees under investigation, as the current amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration provide for the minister to be able to educate several committees in question. My proposal was to add a decimal and say, "A maximum of three". So, if the minister could educate a maximum of three committees in question, so that it wouldn't happen, which is very often in practice with us, that one rule comes out in something quite third, or that maybe today-to-morrow we have 20 commissions or, as someone said, for every municipality that we have one commission. Mr. Minister, don't laugh. The fact that out of 162 state officials, which you have so far set up by this government, you chose a total of 142 people past the public competition, and only 20 in a public competition, says that it is possible. So, you're going to form a 10 commission, where you're going to name 50 interrogators and what all that savings, which you were talking about when you were talking about high incomes with the right of the interrogator, will practically cancel out. Not only to cancel, but to create a new cost for the state, with the fact that these commissions do not have limited time to be elected, but they can also work for the next 10 years, and the notaries will be selected and they will receive salaries without any real work. Maybe it's not three commissions, maybe it's five commissions, let's just say, you might have 25 people in mind who might qualify to work as interrogators and receive adequate compensation for that, but in any case, I think that should have been limited, especially, ministers, which is possible for another minister to sit in your seat tomorrow. If you now intend to form three commissions, it is possible that tomorrow some minister from your party or from another party will form a 10 commission. Why didn't we limit it with an imperative standard? At the end of the two-day debate on four members, I would really like to invite you to focus on some of the more important things in the next period. Notation is important, public notation is important, we said what problems would have been solved if it had been brought to life with us, although it had not been brought to life, among other things, and your guilt, because you did not create conditions for it, but still to devote yourself to a growing increase in crime and the consequences of amnesty. The fact is that these days, a grandmother has been strangled by a returnee. The fact is... (President: Theme, Mr. Veselinović, please. I'm not allowed to mention my grandmother? (President: No, still stick to the subject. All right. In any case, I believe that there are more pressing topics to deal with, and above all, about the increase in crime, and in terms of dispensing courts and creating space to react reactively to events that are everyday on the streets and that create from this country a legally insecure state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12815	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12816	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I have to react to something like this, and here's why. I think that the current functioning of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration is precisely on the agenda and the organisation of a public notary exam, which shows that you have no room for this kind of anxiety that you've brought out. I don't know who would organize this work in five, ten or fifteen committees, if these committees were not going to have a job. On the other hand, what I was saying here two days ago in front of you and now I'm going to do it again -- the difference that exists in that first organized exam and those latters is quite obvious. If you think it was okay and it was decent in Serbia to organise exams with such incomes in which the members of the committee will receive fees of less than 2,000 euros for one test period, then we have different opinions. When you mentioned that more important matters should be dealt with, of course, and I announced two days ago and said that we have more important jobs, that crime growth must be affected by the fact that you, for example, have only one basic court in a South-Bed county. If you don't have ten municipalities with a court, if you don't have a court, say, in Backo Palanca, which has all the conditions that one court works in it, if you don't have a court in Vrbas, say, and that there are conditions that a court works there, if you don't have a court in one place that's just for yourself, where there's a basic court, there's not enough criteria, such as Vienna, but it's so far from the seat of the court, from Novi Sad, then it's certainly one of the big problems. Not only do you not have a court, but you don't have a public prosecutor's office there, so we understand each other completely. Therefore, I also announced during March of the month you will have, I hope, the opportunity to discuss all together and a package of judicial and organisational laws, which should certainly contribute to the more efficient and better work of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia and throughout its territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12817	Thank you. The word is Janko Veselinović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12818	Minister, in order to avoid misunderstanding, we absolutely agree on the height of the interviewor's receipt. So I don't think the interrogator should have 2,000 euros in income. However, we disagree on the number of interrogators. The number of respondents under the current bill can be unlimited and when you add up all their receipts, we will get a total amount much higher than we had before. On the other hand, when you talk about a network of courts, you may be right, although it is not the practice of European countries, it is going to the pooling of courts and to the greater efficiency of courts. But with this bill of law, you're putting us in a position not only to have courts in these places for the next year, but we won't even have notes. What does that mean? It means that these people are going to have to travel to verify the contract, they're going to have to travel to do other things that, instead of the court, could have been done by a notary, and that's why you're delaying the application of this law for another year. That's what our disagreement is about. So you're kind of getting into your own words. You say you don't have enough courts, and on the other hand you won't even have a notary, because you suggest that the amendment law and the amendments to the Law on Public Registration be extended, which is likely to be adopted by the ruling majority in another year. I don't think that's good, that that deadline should have been shorter and that you should have provided conditions for public notaries to start working, even in the part of Serbia, in the works of municipalities and cities, and that you, if you want to change the network of courts, are free to do so. It's your right as minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12819	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't say I'm the one who jumps into my mouth, because I still haven't got an answer to the question I asked two days ago – why hasn't a single test deadline been organised for a year? So why is no single test period organised from May 2011 to May 2012? Now you've had a situation that within five months, two test deadlines have been arranged, then you've had a situation in 12 months, not one single test period, and I haven't yet received an answer to that question. So I'd say jumping in, not directly, to my own mouth, but that's a big problem. Am I accusing this one of someone who didn't do it? I think the facts speak enough for themselves. When you mentioned a network of courts, we're just going to make it possible to solve this problem. We were just talking about Article 17. Law on public records and on the official area of the public register. Official territory is restricted to the territory of the basic court. Therefore, these two issues will be resolved in parallel. Once again, look at the transitional and final provisions of the law, you will see that the transitional and final provisions provide certain transitional solutions, to ensure all conditions for the permanent application of the basic provisions of the law. Therefore, there will be no cataclysm if we work hard and well, not only in the ministry, but also candidates who apply for exams. On the other hand, when you asked, let's go back to the very essence of the amendment, when you say three commissions. Look, this is neither the first nor the last expert exam organised by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration. You have, like, a judicial exam. Nowhere in the Law of Judicial Examining you are not limited by the number of commissions, nowhere. Why? Because simply, the number of commissions should also monitor the candidates' interest in passing the exam. Look, for example, passing a state-run expert exam to work in state authorities. The law does not limit the number of commissions. So I don't think there's a reason for that in this case either. There's the general public, there's the media, as the chief alarmer and critic, and if a minister were to find so much boast that he would organize the work of five or ten committees in question and there's no basis for that, of course, to call him. On the other hand, if I'm not mistaken, I think it's mentioned somewhere during the exposure, that even when they're out of business, the commission members will be paid for it. Was there something like that? Commission members receive compensation for that only when they have work to do. Therefore, when they have no business, they do not receive fees. It's not monthly or otherwise fees, it's when you organize test deadlines, test cycles, then you get a certain fee for their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12821	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12822	Okay Minister, first question - you were a minister six months ago, right? When the law was here in August under the same name, you asked for an extension of the time limit for its application for six months. What changed in the meantime? Didn't you know any facts? So, during that period when you say there were no exams, rules were made, so all sublegal acts were completed, necessary to organize the exams and eventually to form chambers and everything else, when there are sufficient numbers of notaries. So what makes you, now that you have all the conditions to apply this law, delay its application for another six months? Don't say it – there will be some blatant minister. If I may from the chairman, I would like to give a lot of examples of the haughtiness of the new ministers, the new directors who talk about the blind and blind drivers who die on the roads, etc., I can't talk about it. It may occur that a minister will still form five commissions. How are you talking about 2,000 euros in receipt of an interrogator from before, when you say the commission is only paid when it works? So neither did the predecessor have 2,000 euros in receipts, in some sense payment fees, but when they worked. So it happened for months that she was receiving 2,000 euros, and it happened that she wasn't receiving anything from that person. You've been relativating things, and now you're talking about something that's the same relative thing, whether these people will receive or not receive compensation for it. Thank you. President: thank you. Minister Selakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12823	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you seem to have missed one condition, which is most important which is not fulfilled. There or we can all share responsibility and say – we are all guilty or should say – there is simply no interest in candidates, candidates who are able to pass the exam at the same time. The other day I said, and now please tell me which way it is, here I'm pulling it all back right now, we're finishing it, to start applying the law. You say – why don't we move on to law enforcement? How do we apply it? The conditions are not met by law. In this way, we are confident that we will allow for the fulfilment of the laws of the prescribed conditions. Of course, I spoke very carefully when we were talking about fees. I said, after the test. Check the stenogram, I said – slightly less than 2000 euros per test deadline. Compare that, for example, with the fee received by a member of the examination committee for the judicial exam. At the same time, therefore, in May of 2012. You know what the difference is? Abnormal. It's a huge proportion. We can also gain insight, to see how much more burdensome the members of these committees have been to work than the members, let's say these committees have been. Thank God, it's reduced to one normal and reasonable measure, and that's how it's going to be in the future, I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12824	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12825	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is only one reason in the reasons for the law being passed because an insufficient number of persons has passed a public record exam. That's the basic reason why this bill was passed. Why are these very changes proposed? Why is it the main theme here that only a public notebook can make contracts from now on? No citizen, no lawyers, so no one else, but it's in the jurisdiction of the public notary, according to your law. Why are they changing you? Is that a carrot for future notaries? Have you considered whether the courts are financed from the Serbian budget, that some of the powers, according to the Law on Public Registration, are passed on to the notaries? Then why aren't certain funds transferred from the budget to the public records? Why do you carry the burden of every change, of every change you've suggested so much, of actually passing on and putting on to citizens and taxpayers?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12826	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment's proposal concerns law enforcement. Therefore, in the basic text proposed by the Ministry, or Government, the deadline was moved until 1 March 2014, for application, and I suggested that it be another six months and that the law be applied from 1 September 2014. The reasons for that are numerous. The first reason is that regardless of good will, both the National Assembly and the Ministry, this law can be inadmissible in a year. So I suggested that it be another six months, given that at this point we only have 50 and some public notebooks with a passed exam. In order for the law to work, we need 100 out of 400 candidates who passed this exam, passed just over 50. They paid 600 euros for the exam. The candidate must be a lawyer with a legal exam and has 600 euros, and I think it will take 500 in the future. How do we motivate these 400 lawyers with a legal exam and a five-year experience to re-apply? The question is also how many of these people there are in Serbia to sign up and get to that magic figure where we have 100 public notebooks so the law can be applied. I fear that despite the best will of the ministry, the government, and the National Assembly, this deadline of one year for the application of this law is not enough and that it should be extended for another six months, which I have suggested, and perhaps for a year, two days. What happens if, and in the debate, we heard potential candidates lawyers with passed judicial exams and with five years of work experience, the same ones who already spent 600 euros once, so they're willing to borrow that money somehow to take another test. What if they fear the fact that there are notaries in the environment, or public notebooks, that they have experienced almost every other person to end up in prison? What if they're afraid of it and they don't want it and they're demoted and they don't want to apply to this exam? So unless you have a hundred public notebooks with a passed exam, you're free of commission. Unless you have candidates, all that the commission wants and misses them, all that relatives are members of the committee in question, unless the applications can pass. So, they have to have money, they have to have five years of work experience, they have to have a judicial exam, they have to be lawyers, they have to be motivated, and they have to be not afraid of any consequences because everywhere in the environment when these laws were applied in the first year, most public notebooks ended up in prisons. I therefore suggested that the application of this law be postponed and that that application should be extended by six months. I think the government should have accepted this amendment. Maybe within that time frame we could dig up that channel, so we could open up that public library office and at Stallac for the first municipality area, I don't think he's Cicevic, I'm not sure. So, let's open up that public record office for Kruševac, Cicevic, etc. In the city of Stallac. That channel may have been excavated in a year and a half, but I have to say, it's another channel, and it's a channel to get money out of this country, and foreign organisations say it's illegally out of this country 51 billion over the last 10 years. Please, I wasn't talking about Stallach, someone else was talking about him. If it wasn't for that channel, we would have dug up these three and had this public record office in Stalac City headed for Krusevec. So it could've been the port captain's office, it could've been the public records office, but I'm afraid this poor woman's money has been kidnapped and we're so poor, we won't have enough candidates to sign up if she's on every eight, then we need another 400 people who have to have 200 thousand euros. Furthermore, it's not the only cost. To get into this adventure, he needs more money. It must have its own real estate or rent in rent, so it must be most likely some multi-year lease, and it needs several more thousands of euros regardless of which middle it opens a public record office. One more thing, the equipment in that office that he has to equip with his own resources must cost at least 10,000 euros, at some rate. So, where are we going to find, in the next year, so many candidates to sign up with the 600-euro money, which has a space for official premises, which has 10,000 euros to buy equipment. Where we'll find so many candidates, and they'll be honest, honest and honest and that in five years of their work experience, with a passed judicial exam they've earned 15,000 euros to deal with this job. I don't think the Department of Justice will be able to implement this law in the next year. I therefore suggested that this law should only be applied since September 2014, so I extended the period of application by six months, which I think is even a little but with value, effort, motivation of potential candidates, so that we can reach that deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12828	Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12829	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly don't think this amendment should be accepted. On the contrary, the law should be applied as soon as possible because if we had the application of this law as soon as possible, then we could, at least, open a notary office in every minister's car. So he can resign both Goran Knezevic and the Prime Minister immediately to the driver's presence. That would be good for both the government and the ministers and the law in this country. I mean, in order for it to be a good practice, maybe a respected colleague could think in that direction that the notary's office isn't opening up in small offices, but every minister, and they don't talk anyway, every guy's driving a car, you can never see two ministers in a car. Nicely, forward one minister and driver, behind the notary and as soon as he looks at these tabloids and your party note says – see, what they say about me, see these milk affairs, to resign nicely. He doesn't have to go home, right now that notary's stamp is pounding, and he says, "Here you go, Minister, your resignation is valid." I think you should think that way. Otherwise, delaying this important law is not a good idea. Believe me, that Goran Knezevic had a notary in Zrenjanin could have resigned immediately at the notaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12830	Thank you. Marjan Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12831	I'm afraid someone wasn't in the O.R. when I spoke and misread my exposure. So, I didn't talk about any milk, no ministers, I talked about the Ministry of Justice, the Government, the National Assembly, the start of law enforcement and suggested that the law be applied six months later than the Government of the Republic of Serbia suggested. So, I wanted to change the proposal, and I listed the reasons that concern it. I didn't say anything about milk. I didn't mention the Minister's resignations. I think there's going to be an opportunity for us to discuss this too, so I'm going to prove to you that there were no current ministers but to the former ministers, and you can read that in the media as well. So, there are some people who can talk qualifiedly about food poisoning, but there are certain people who should never say that if they had experience with human poisoning, if they were responsible for poisoning, it seems to me, samonell. That's what I can add. So, not wanting to get into the essence of which the minister will resign. As far as I'm concerned, I don't even have a porter in the government. All ministers can resign. I am for the government of the people, from the people to the people. We haven't had a government like that in 12 years, and that's why we went as we went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12832	Thank you. We're closing a circle of replicas as we're away from the subject. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12833	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 404 lawyers have passed the exam. Of which, 249 did not pass the exam. Over 20 million dinars paid these 404 lawyers to even get the right to take the exam. It is not small money in today's conditions in Serbia. Then you say - there should be a delay in law enforcement, because there are no 100 public notebooks, which is a prerequisite for starting with law enforcement. Mr. Minister, you've fallen for the correctional, because in August of the month you've also extended the deadline for the application of the law and now you've come back to this situation to ask for a deadline. That, if it's not a fall in the exam, or at least in juvie, I don't know what it is. So, 249 lawyers, who have passed a judicial exam, in your opinion, are responsible for not passing the exam. So, 249 lawyers, in your opinion, are not professional enough, they haven't studied enough, they're not capable enough to pass one public record exam and that's actually why you filed this bill. In doing so, you did not explain why only these amendments, because there are many members in this law that you should amend, and this law was written by the members of the examination committee, and these members of the examination committee do not suffer the consequences, as is the case with 249 professional lawyers in this country. They're judges, they're lawyers, they're prosecutors, they're serious people who have reason to believe that if they've passed justice, if they've worked as lawyers, they'll be able to pass this public record exam of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-27-0.u12834	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday, February 27, 2013, starting at 17.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision on agenda points. We move to the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Public Note Law since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Records, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 127 of the 161 MPs present voted in favour of the vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Srdjan Shain has withdrawn the amendment in writing to Article 1. Bills of Law that MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov and Jovan Palalic, have drawn together amendments to Article 6. Proposal for a law, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, is in accordance with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure were rejected as incomplete amendments, which were added after Article 1a and 1b, adding a new article 4a, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic and to Article 6, with a correction, which was submitted by the National MP Olgica Batic. According to Article 163(4), Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 23 of the 162 MPs present voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that two of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic and MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 21 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour of the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic and MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 22 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 17 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment are together the mid-term MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 18 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vuckovic, Vesna Marjanovic, Gordana Komic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 20 of the 161 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov and Jovan Palalic. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment in the course of a review of the bill's proposal, in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 131 of the 162 MPs present voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 21 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour of the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 18 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 126 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 19 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 20 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's article 7. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 130 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Public Records, in general. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 134 of the 162 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill amending the Law on Public Records. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE TERMINATION OF THE TERMINATION OF THE TERMINAL PARTIES OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS Since the National Assembly carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 1 of Article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 158 of the 160 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE NAME OF THE SPECIFIC DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA IN INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS As the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides to appoint the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in interparliamentary institutions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 150 of the 160 MPs present voted for it. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to appoint the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in interparliamentary institutions by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the fourth item of the agenda - THE PROGRAMME OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATES AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, also performs other electoral powers. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 153 of the 160 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION ON THE MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATES AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, also performs other electoral powers. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction, since 21 February 2013, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 158 of the 160 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction, since 21 February 2013, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's Community of the Republic of Serbia since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 157 of the 160 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Bojan Djuric said at a session on 25 February 2013, at 14.30 p.m., that he had injured members 27 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 14 of the 157 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic said at a session on 25 February 2013, at 15.25 p.m., that he was injured by a member of 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 18 of the 157 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Shin at a session on 25 February 2013, at 19.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that 36 of the 157 MPs present voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
