ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15758	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287(2), Rules of Procedure, MPs have the right to inform and explain on the basis of a member of the Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15759	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the People's Parliament, I have first and foremost a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Since almost a month has passed since there has been no vaccine against classical swine fever, which threatens the entire livestock stock of pigs, especially large farms, my first question is what will the Ministry of Agriculture and Resoring Minister do on this extremely important issue, especially if it is considered that if this disease occurs, pigs are killed? Secondly, supplies of rabies vaccines will last for another seven months, and rabies, as most know, is contagious, thus dangerous and on top of all incurable disease. My question is, when will the Ministry of Agriculture provide both vaccines and vaccines? Four days ago, veterinary stations were paid a month ago in February for preventive measures. It's almost May now, so it's the third month. Payments to veterinary cells are not made for preventive measures. I think it may be only now that Ivan Socho has been unwarranted and that the finance minister should have been removed instead, because he has not provided sufficient financial resources to pay the veterinary cells. Also, the question addressed to the Minister of Agriculture is whether the resolution ministry is wondering what will happen if the swine fever reaches the PKK farms and who will compensate for the damage in that case and where? My second question was addressed to the minister of justice. "Grafito Gardens", a limited-responsibility company, is actually an economic company for the development of real estate projects that are active in the company and was founded in 2008 by the director of Dimitria Filaktov, who is also a legal representative of the same-named company. As such, the only person who represents this company independently. It's all official data from the APR site. My question is whether and how many criminal charges have been filed against that company "Grafito Gardens", or whether and how many criminal charges have been filed against the director and sole legal representative of the company Dimitri Filaktov, since many citizens are complaining to me, above all, from the suburban municipalities to the fraud operations of both the companies, so primarily to the actions of the fraud of its director, or legal representative Dimitri Filaktov. If criminal charges have been filed and any action under these procedures has been taken, my next question is, how far has it been and at what stage are the criminal proceedings in question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15760	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question concerns the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and Employment in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is generally related to our country's policy, which relies on reforms in the coming period on even regional development, economic development. However, in the smaller environments that need to be the subject of strengthening a policy of equal regional development, there are problems affecting the problems some of the more developed countries or developing countries had in half the 20th century. This issue concerns the municipality of Kosjerić, the marginal social groups and the problem of the Association for Children's Paralysy and the Association of Blind and Failing Children, which has over 100. In the past term, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Centre for Social Work have implemented a project to provide living security for those children who stand out in about a month. The municipality says there is no funds, there is no money to continue this project and my question concerns the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, is it possible to support this project in any way, to extend it, because concern for marginal social groups should be one of the main priorities of how these governments and what defines one socially responsible policy of every serious country in the 21st century? The second and second question concerns the Ministry of Health and the need for a dialysis centre in the same Koserić where people go to dialysis from over 60 to 70 kilometers away every other day, although the Social Protection Act defines that this dialysis center must exist and be present within a 30km radius. If we are talking about economic development, about balanced regional development, of course we must all work hard and our colleagues from the Ministry of Health, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to provide those basic conditions for life and fundamental human rights concerning the right to health care, the right to work, and I think that the right to health care, the protection of marginal social groups is the basis which is, in fact, a prerequisite for us to be able to achieve every other aspect of social and, of course, economic development, and I appeal to both ministries to respond to us and, of course, to try to solve these specific problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15762	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15763	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President of the Assembly, have been speaking more and more frequently in recent months, and in recent weeks, representatives of the government in Serbia, Prime Minister Dacic and First Vice-President Vukic, have been saying that Vojislav Kostunica has made some decisions on letting terrorists and war criminals go free. My question and my request for an explanation and notification is – on what basis do they call themselves, and claim that Vojislav Kostunica did what he didn't actually do? I am asking because there is a disturbance in the public over these unsavourable events over the surrender of Kosovo to Albanians, a disturbance about the other problem, about another issue, about Vojislav Kostunica and the government that he has led to the rules of some non-community, which would allegedly cover what seems to be today. I can tell you that there was amnesty at that time, in early January and February 2001, and then the Federal Assembly and the Republic Assembly passed the Law on Amnesty. Under these laws, many have been released. These laws included a wide range of people who were in prisons, so from war deserters, to those who called for a passover during the bombing, to participants in the armed conflicts in Kosovo, above all Albanians, and that, under that amnesty, certain Albanian participants of the armed resistance against the legal forces of Yugoslavia and Serbia, including the Mazrek brothers, who are constantly mentioned as those allegedly released by Kostunica by his decision. So, no such decision has been made and it has not been made by Vojislav Kostunica, but rather this amnesty was carried out on the basis of the laws passed in February 2001. However, perhaps Mr Dacic and Vukic have some other documents on the basis of which they claim Kostunica has released terrorists and war criminals, so we would like to know what documents they are. It's just, I can't believe it's a thing, let me say, out of my head, so to speak, without checking, because it's a really big slander, which will be determined if we ever get an explanation and a notice that will be authentic. Of course, various means, rhetorical machinations and insinuations are being used in the political struggle, but this should have a measure and a limit in a democratic society. Inaccuracy and lie is that line that cannot be crossed and overcome. I'm reacting because this has already become common. We also had the opportunity to hear from the prime minister those exact words – Kostunica released the Mazreka brothers and other terrorists and war criminals. We didn't react, even though we knew he didn't let them go, but it was done on the basis of the law. The last time in Mitrovica, Mr. Vice-President of the government saw it in front of a major audience, who watched it on TV, said Kostunica did it. So, I repeat, it's one really insinuation of the worst kind, and that's why we're looking for an explanation and a notice. The law is what was passed, and I can tell you, in terms, if anyone remembers and although that discussion about this law can no longer be of interest to anyone, but I will only remind you that this Law on Amnesty or those two laws, that they are brought under great pressure by the same West that is working with the Government of Serbia today to take away Kosovo, which we wanted to open ourselves to the good faith of the state, to go through the democratisation and rule of law, and among other things was the condition of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe at the end of 2000, that just such laws were passed so that Serbia could ever be a candidate for a member of the Council of Europe. Today, when we are used to Serbia being a member of the Council of Europe and participating in the Parliamentary Assembly and other bodies, today no one is thinking about how Serbia actually entered the Council of Europe. Among other things, one of the conditions was those laws. Based on these laws, as I said, many were released, among them and the Mazrek brothers, but simply, let's just check this fact out, based on what decision was it made? Here I claim quite reliably that Vojislav Kostunica did not do this and that with this kind of manipulation and insinuation, because actually this government policy on Kosovo's surrender cannot be covered by anything, and at least with this type of rhetorical manipulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15764	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15765	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Serbia is one step away from getting a date to start negotiations with the EU on full membership. We have warned, prayed, said, that this is a very important day for Serbia after which Serbia's Euro-Atlantic path will be irrevocable. We said that the Brussels Agreement with Pristina authorities is important, but that its application is even more important. As you know, from Brussels, messages are coming to us that the plan to implement this agreement, to start applying this agreement, with an agreement, another old condition from last year, the agreement on telecommunications and energy, is something that must happen by June 28th, by the end of June, in order to get a date for the start of negotiations. We said that the new Kosovo policy, which we have advocated since the founding of our party, must follow a new policy in Serbia, because it is simply impossible to change Kosovo's policy, while everything else remains as if nothing has changed. We have been saying that the application of this agreement is a more and more important issue than it is a government issue, a ruling coalition, so if you will, even this assembly. I remind you that the Brussels Agreement here with more than two-thirds of the majority has been accepted. Where are we now? We are now in a vacuum where Prime Minister Dacic says seven days ago that the implementation plan will be completed in seven to ten days, and we know that Pristina and Belgrade expert teams should agree on the implementation plan in a dialogue that has been interrupted. From our point of view, nothing seems to be happening, and time is passing. We think that one of the reasons why it is so certain is the resistance of anti-European, conservative, anti-modern, reverse forces, which exists in society, no doubt, which may be greater than what is here in the Assembly. Let's remember, the other day, we even experienced individuals calling for the murder of the highest state authorities, and to remind you, it's a criminal act, and it seems to be a matter of foreign citizens. The government responds to it with tolerance and calmness. Then no wonder that there is, as I say, a growing resistance, especially from those structures in northern Kosovo, which I cannot call legitimate, because their legitimacy, let's say, the greatest proof of their legitimacy is that they are the only structures. Are they legitimate, we will see when elections are held on Kosovo's laws, which are a prerequisite, I remind this because of citizens, not because of you, the formation of a Serb community, which Ahtisaari's plan has yet to come. So, I'm asking-- is the government aware that we're running out of time? Are we going to get that implementation plan in seven to ten days, and according to what Dacic said, we're going to have three days left? Will the government understand that changing Kosovo's policy must change the country's policy. What is the essence of those who refuse to accept the new Kosovo policy of this government? They see that everything else doesn't change and then they conclude -- this is probably some bluff, this is probably some buy-time, and it's all reminded of that time from 20 years ago. Let me remind you, at that time Milosevic led one policy, and then, absolutely, I say, pragmatic reasons for survival in power suddenly decided to change politics and tell the Serbs from Bosnia, or before that to the Krajina Serbs, that they had to accept a plan. Remember. Then Babic resisted, and then he wrote a letter, and told the people of Krajina - this Babic no longer enjoys my trust, change it, so they said to him, "Dear Slobo, write another letter, we didn't understand this first, etc. Now this persuasion of the Deputy Prime Minister with representatives of these structures in northern Kosovo almost looks like it, so he'll end up getting mad at Vukic... (President: Time. ) So when will Serbia and Pristina agree on a plan to implement the agreement and when will it be signed and reached agreement on energy and telecommunications?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15766	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15767	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for you, Mr. President - when will you listen to the request of the association of small and medium-sized enterprises and Mr. Milan Knezevic and put on the agenda a request to discuss the disastrous economic policy and situation in which Serbia is located because of the ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness of this government? Don't just tell me you don't have a business opportunity to do this, because the DS Parliament Club has articulated this requirement in the official form of an area and we expect an appointment of a session where we will indeed discuss a very difficult and catastrophic economic disaster and situation in Serbia. I'll just remind you that in the first two months, more than 30,000 people are out of work, 500 Serbian citizens are out of work every day, and that's 20 employees per hour. While I ask this question, two people in Serbia will be out of work because of the government's incompetence. I'm also asking you what motives have led you to kidnap local self-governments in the middle of the fiscal year 200m euros? How do you think local self-government will implement local plans, even those local self-governments where the SNS is in power? I ask you: who will resign because this government has led to the first deficit in the trade of agricultural products in the last 13 years? Wasn't the deadline for returning the limit of aflatoxin allowed in milk on March 15th? That on March 15th, at the promise of Alexander Vukic, the allowed limit of aflatoxin returns to 0.05%? I'm also asking -- last year was the worst for foreign investment, and this one's even worse. You promised 100 billion foreign investment in the election campaign. In the first few months of this year, that figure was 70 million. I will remind you that the last years of the authorities when the DS managed this country's direct foreign investment were 2.2 billion. If these are not enough reasons for you, facts and motives to understand the situation of your incompetence and the economic disaster you produce in Serbia, I do not remind you of the press conferences you held in party rooms. I have a few more questions. The first question is – what are you going to do to fix anti-building protection in Serbia? In the past 10 days, Serbia has been devastated. Only this deficit you've made in agriculture for the past 13 years will be even greater because of your inability to acquire anti-urban missiles. The city has devastated the village of Rosci in Cablara, Subotica, Probaška and Toplice municipality. The orchards and crops remained torn apart as if a natural disaster had passed, as if the citizens of Serbia were not enough to have this disastrous government. One of the members of the government has also entered the city-hit areas, I guess the disaster would be complete. I ask you, when will you get the anti-urban missiles? When will they be directly responsible for visiting agricultural producers? I'm also asking a question -- is it possible for 8,000 people to be infected in hospitals? According to some official data in your party ballots, that's six thousand, according to some off-the-books, it's eight thousand. People in Serbia are dying of banal infections. Finally, I ask the question – the leader of the opposition party, Cedomir Jovanovic, along with several of his friends were attacked in Segedin. We are still waiting for the names and last names of the perpetrators of this brutal attack on the leader of the opposition party. Who are these people? What property do they have? In the paper, we read praises about these people and their property. I ask the tax administration – is it possible, and I ask the police, that you are not able to ask these people who are proven criminals, where did you get this property? I ask: Who are these men who attack the leaders of opposition parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15768	I can only tell you what's in my work, which is that during this month, a session will be held to discuss the economic situation. I am currently consulting with the Government, because I would like all the ministers you listed in your memo to attend that session. Of course, I'd like it not to be a small number of ministers or, let me say, to be at least the largest number of ministers you've listed in the economic sector. We'll definitely have one day to discuss it this month. I will see to it that the sooner I inform the National Assembly that day will be and where we will discuss the economic situation in the country and, of course, how it happened. The word is Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15769	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the city of Belgrade, six kilometers from the square of the Republic, canal water and feces have been breaking out in Kotje village for several months. For a while, and today, they've put refugee camp at risk and have little children. I once warned the authorities to remove the defects, as they threaten not only the ecological but also the health problems of broader proportions. Representatives of the refugees and displaced persons visited, as well as in writing, the municipality of Palilul, the mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, the sewerage company and the Republic Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons. They sent them from one to the next, so today that problem remains unresolved. I ask the parliamentary question of the Ministry of Local Self-Government – does it intend to contact the mayor, Mr Gilas, that he personally engages and solves this problem, in order to avoid major environmental and health problems? Second. I asked a parliamentary question regarding the teaching staff and the training of teachers who were exiled from the Republic of Croatia, who ran our children from 1996 to 2000, together with colleagues from the Republic of Serbia, to Greece for six months and a year. The departure was organised by the Red Cross of Serbia and the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia. In one sentence, I would like to say that colleagues from the Republic of Serbia have been recognised as an internship, and colleagues from the former Republika Srpska are not recognised. They've been granted a job internship, but not a financial one. Again, I ask the question – does the Ministry of Education think about solving this problem, since it is the fate of the employees? Third. Last week, at a meeting of the Assembly of the Municipality, when we discussed the Law on Railways and when I presented the information that "The Railways of Serbia" are spending certain funds in dinars, I presented the information that the director spent 300,000 dinars. However, some MPs claimed that I provided information that it was 300,000 euros. I was right to apologize to the MP. I ask the parliamentary question of the Vice-President of the Assembly to Mr Arsenovic why he did not, since he listened then and heard the information, react. Thank you very much. I insist on written answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15770	Thank you. Since no one is more than a representative, or authorized representative, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Dronjak, Zlata Djerić, Dubravka Filipovski, Branko Ružić, Dejan Radenkovic, Teodora Vlahović, Ivan Jovanovic, Nenad Konstantinović, Tamara Tripić and Gordana Čomić. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in view of the joint principle of the motions of the law referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda, I have called on today's session, in addition to the representative Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Prof. Dr. Dejan Đurdjevic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, to attend: Gordana Stamenić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration; Gradimir Nenadovic, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law; Nadežda Mitrovica – Žitko, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law; Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law and Željko Čurguz, Senior Advisor in the Republic Secretariat for Law. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint principled search on the draft law on the publication of laws and regulations and acts and the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on proposals for the agenda for items 4 and 5 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on the publication of the law and other regulations and of the act and the proposal for an amending and supplementing the law on criminal proceedings Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mirko Chikiriz, a representative of the promoter, contacted first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15771	Thank you, Mr. President. The SPO and DHSS parliamentary group submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. We propose to amend Article 327 of Article 2 of the current Code and it is said that a convicted associate cannot be offered a person convicted as an organizer of an organised criminal group, nor a person who has been sentenced to 40 years in prison. Why are we looking for these changes? We believe that these changes are necessary because convicted persons for the most serious crimes, such as those convicted of multiple serious murders, can become convicted associates and thus avoid criminal sanctions, criminal responsibility and be found at large. The aim of these amendments to the Codes is to individualise criminal sanctions, the principle of justice, the protection of public and private interest, and the purpose of punishment does not lose its full meaning and that victims of a crime instead of satisfactory do not experience a new injustice and a new humiliation. Analyzing the current situation in our legal system, it is concluded that since our criminal law provides for a maximum prison sentence of 40 years, regardless of the number of crimes committed, regardless of the cruelty and the most disgusting motives under which these crimes were committed, our criminal law is simply so that the mass murderer Brayvik would receive a single 40-year prison sentence, but could also be a convicted associate and found at large, provided he discovers the perpetrators of some other crimes that have serious consequences in relation to the crime he committed himself. Getting the status of a convicted co-worker of multiple murderers, sentenced to a single 40-year sentence, can be found at large regardless of the execution of several serious murders, regardless of the difficult circumstances, cruel motives and any other difficult circumstances under which multiple murders were committed. Amendments to the law are necessary that the case for a convicted associate would not be found and would not be granted the status of a convicted associate. For example, former head of state security resolution Milosevic's regime, Radomir Markovic, was convicted as chief co-executor of the four-time murder at the Ibar Master's Office on 3 October 1999 or the murder of Ivan Stambolic, the assassination of Vuk Draskovic at the Ibar Masteral or in Budva. As head of state security portfolio, he is suspected of organising various other liquidations and crimes, although unfortunately he has not been convicted of them. Without this change, it would also be possible for Milorad Ulemek the Legion and many other perpetrators of the most serious crimes to gain the status of convicted associates. We believe that it is high time that life as the highest Christian value gets its full promotion in criminal law and that all victims of the most violent murders are not humiliated again without these proposed changes. Therefore, the SPO DHSS parliamentary group expects all MPs and all parliamentary groups to support this draft amending the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15772	The word is Dejan Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15773	Thank you. Dear People's MPs and MPs, I am honored to be able to explain before the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the Law on the publication of laws, regulations and other general acts. A law governing this matter, the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" was adopted in 1991. So 22 years ago. Since then, it has been partially revised in 2006 to bring it into line with the current constitution. Meanwhile, since 1991, significant changes have taken place both in the legal system and in the way of legal work, which requires the need for a new law to bring this matter into line with it and to ensure the establishment of a new modern system for the publication of laws, regulations and other acts in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Since 1991, a number of republican regulations have been adopted that are fundamentally different from public enterprises, public property and public procurement, and all this requires that the matter of publication of regulations in the "Official Messenger" is reformed in order to bring this activity into line with the country's strategic definitions in the field of regulatory reform and in the area of the information system. Also, in the last 20 years, the legal work has changed dramatically. The lawyers used to inform themselves of the regulations by subscribed to the "Official Messenger" and then in the written edition of the "Official Messenger" or in various other informal writing collections they found the texts of the regulations. Meanwhile, the development of the Internet and information technologies was affirmed by the so-called the electronic regulatory bases and the maximum number of lawyers in everyday work shall be used by those electronic regulations. They provide great opportunities. First, they take up less space, allow lawyers to search, to find the required regulation easier, to make it easier to quote when they need to install it in a written act, etc. The only lack of these databases is that they are informal, unofficial. The lawyer can't rely on them. If you find a law on any of the current databases, that version of the law is not official. It is probably true, but there is a possibility that it has not been updated and may have been mistranslated, and that is why lawyers always have to when quoting the regulations to check in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" whether the regulation has been automatically transferred to the database. Accordingly, the government proposes to pass a new law on the publication of laws, other regulations and general acts in order to establish an economic and effective system of law publishing, which would give citizens the following advantages. First, some costs for users of these services would be reduced or completely abolished, and on the other hand, acts published in the Official Messenger, which are not only the Constitution and the laws, these are also certified international contracts, instruments of the Constitutional Court, acts of the National Bank, etc., could be made available to anyone who has access to the Internet. When this law was drafted, the solutions on comparative law were detailed, and most of all in the EU countries. The work of publishing regulations in EU countries has been entrusted to the publisher of official messengers and in the largest number of states, in addition to the printed edition of official messengers, as an official issue of official messengers, the figure of the electronic edition. Namely, each of the 31 countries, which has been analysed, has an electronic edition of the regulations. In 29 countries, access to these electronic editions is free of charge for all users. In Lithuania and Romania alone, compensation is paid for it. The printed edition of official messengers is published in 24 countries and is paid in most of them a 50-euro subscription at an annual level of up to 2,500 euros. With regard to the official issue of official messengers, only a printed edition has been officially published in 18 countries. In seven countries, only he is officially a linear edition, and in six countries an official and electronic edition has been printed. This law has essentially two parts. In one part of the law, constitutional provisions on the publication of laws and other general acts which provide for the rules to be published, who takes care of the publication of those rules which are regulated for which compensation is paid when published in the Official Messenger, and for which no compensation is paid. Part two of the regulation is being edited by the official messenger. "The Official Messenger" today has a basic edition called "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and two special editions, which are "The Official Messenger of the Enlightenment Review" and "The Official Messenger of the International Contracts". What is the paper of this law is that this basic edition of the "Official Messenger" and these special editions will have two official versions. One official version will be in writing, meaning this so far official messenger, as it is today. The second official version will be an electronic edition of the "Official Messenger" in PDF format, which will be available to all Internet users. Whoever has access to the internet will be able to see the official version of "Official Messenger" on PDF format. In addition, in addition to this official electronic version, the official messenger website provides that the unofficial electronic version in HTML format, which will enable lawyers to quote more easily and to include any text of the regulations in the context of their decisions. To facilitate compliance with the rules, the establishment of Serbia's legal-information system is envisaged. This legal information system of Serbia is defined as a collection of legally relevant data in electronic form, which contains an electronic form of "Official Messenger", an archive of all official messengers, a database containing a register and texts of applicable regulations and other acts of the Republic of Serbia, a database containing judicial practice and other data on Serbia's legal system and links to EU legal acts. The legal and information system would be published on the website of the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger". As regards access to the legal-information system, some data from this legal-information system would be free of charge to all persons with internet access. These are the texts of the official texts, the unofficially consolidated texts of the regulations, while the case law and other information of the legal and information system would be available only with the compensation provided by the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger", which would be given by the Government to that decision. The management of the legal-information system is entrusted to the Public Enterprise "The Official Messenger" and has been defined as an act of general interest, which is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. As for the organisation of the legal and information system, the way in which the management is conducted would be closer to the regulation adopted by the government. It is also foreseen that there is one committee of the editors of the legal information system to direct and monitor its work. The passing of this law would greatly improve the Serbian legal order, make their daily work easier for lawyers. Anyone who has access to the Internet could access the official version of all the acts published in the "Official Messenger" free of charge and other individual acts, such as judicial practice and decision-making by the administrative authorities, would be available to users with a certain fee. That is why I believe that the National Assembly should support this law, because it will greatly improve Serbia's legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15774	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15775	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have lived in time or better to say we have been living time of difficult political decisions for more than two decades. We live in a time where the lowest, and also the greatest interests of various criminal groups collide. We live in a time where political decisions threaten state officials because of their brave and above all, according to Serbia, useful decisions. That's what we need to put an end to. We don't want a country where individuals think they're above the law. We don't want the wheel of history going back. We from the SPO have heavy and painful experience from the past and a commitment to our victims to propose that this law be passed in this House, because it prevents the status of witnesses i.e. A convicted associate gets a person convicted of maximum prison sentence for the most serious crimes. This law, therefore, changes to the CAP, needs to be adopted because of a total break-up with an unfortunate past so as to take away the hopes of murderers that they can commit the most serious crimes unpunishedly or with a reduced sentence. Seriously, responsibly, the SNS, SPO and DHSS have reached an agreement on the return to the CAP of this reasoned provision of legislation, which was just before defended by MP Mirko Chikiriz, and I hope that the other parties will join us in the voting day. First of all, this isn't a party question. This is a matter of defending the greatest flows of democracy and fundamental principles of justice. I don't want to talk long when it comes to changing the CAP. I want to invite all political parties to vote for these changes, to show responsibility. I know, I'm sure this law will get a lot of support in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15776	The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15777	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the existing solutions contained in the Law on the publication of laws, other regulations and general acts on the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", the matter of publication of laws and other rules has been regulated on the surface and in principle. It defines the types of official votes at the level of the Republic of Serbia to which regulations are published, which are mandatoryly published in the official report, which are the authorities responsible for the regulation and the issue of notice orders and for the accuracy of the text of the publication of the rules. The law is more concerned with the establishment, position and jurisdiction of a public undertaking carrying out the activity of the publication of regulations than with the procedure and manner of publication of those regulations. It is necessary to note that this law was passed 20 years ago, with only one editorial for all this time relating to the establishment of competence for the publication of certified international contracts and defence regulations, which have been confirmed until the end of the existence of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, is confirmed, i.e. delivered on a federal level. The new law continues to continue its continuity with the previous law on the type and name of official texts, the type of rules which are compulsoryly published in the jurisdiction of the legal-technical regulation authority and the issuing of the order for publication of the rules, as well as for the accuracy of the published text of the regulations. The proposed solutions do not differ significantly from those contained in the earlier law, except a few changes with regard to the legal and technical regulation. In the first part of the law, nothing is offered that represents special news. It is noted that, in the opening part, a provision on the case has been left out, i.e. an area governed by that law, as well as a provision on the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, to regulate the manner in which the rules they adopt and which the earlier law contained will be published. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that the Constitution and the laws and other republican regulations are published in the Republic Official Journal, the province statutes, decisions and other acts in the Regional Served Report, and statutes, decisions and other acts of the units of local self-government in local official votes. In this connection, we can conclude that the legislator's intrinsicity is to ensure that the procedures and methods of publication of the rules of the autonomous and self-government units remain in their entirety. However, taking into account that this law introduces two major newspapers, which are the publication of rules in electronic form, as official editions, by introducing a so-called legal-information system, we believe that it would be for the general benefit of all, including the units of territorial autonomy or local self-government, so that a provision could be introduced into the text of the law under which units of territorial autonomy and local self-government could be entrusted with the issue of their official votes to a public enterprise established to issue a republican official messenger. On the one hand, this solution would make it cheaper to publish the rules, as these units of territorial autonomy and local self-government from their budgets would allocate resources for mandatory publication of the rules in the official publication and financing of the legal and information system, and on the other hand would achieve a much greater effect of the legal and information system, as its users would have all the regulations at all levels at one place. We have a duty to remind ourselves that such a solution regarding the legal-information system already operates in a series of so-called legal bases, which were issued on a commercial basis by private companies. The newspapers introduced by this law, as has already been said, are the publication of rules in electronic form, such as official editions and the introduction of a legal-information system. We consider this newspaper to be both good and necessary. In fact, printed editions are increasingly suppressed by electronic means, as they are much simpler to search, more transparent and accessible to a much larger number of people at minimum costs. We have largely entered the era of the Internet, of information society, and it is high time that this segment, which is very important for everyday life and for the functioning of citizens and businesses, is arranged in this way. In addition, the proposed solution that copies of the official journal, which have published the basic texts, are all later amended, complemented by the same, as well as the unofficially consolidated texts of the regulations, are considered free of charge for review, and we consider more than good for the reasons that they have already been presented. The well-known legal practice, the lack of knowledge of the law does not excuse, in this way gets even more weight, because a large number of people on the Internet could come to the desired text of the law and get to know it. In addition, the introduction of a legal and information system today is a necessity in the functioning of state authorities, public services and businesses, as it enables them to get to know in one place all relevant regulations that regulate their work, with the guarantee of the state that it is an authentic text of the regulations. However, the objection we can make to the proposed text of the law in the domain of the legal information system concerns who has the right to access the system free of charge. If part of the necessary publication and functioning of the legal and information system is already foreseen in the budget of the Republic, it should be clearly specified in the text of the law that state authorities, autonomous province authorities and local self-government units should also have the right to free access to the legal and information system. Finally, as previously pointed out, we are aware that printed editions everywhere in the world, including in our country, are slowly losing the battle with Internet editions and that less and less can be covered by operating costs, and therefore we will support provisions concerning the financing of mandatory publication of regulations from the Republic's budget. In addition, this is also true for financing the creation and introduction of a legal-information system, because we consider it necessary and necessary. From the above, with the additions that will arise from the discussion in principle and individually, through amendments, MEPs will support this law. Let me say a few more sentences. We also support changes and additions to the Criminal Code. Strengthening the measures will reduce fear among citizens and increase security in the legal system, that citizens, especially children and powerless, will be effectively protected from multiple perpetrators of these crimes. Therefore, we will also support this law with the additions and amendments that the congregation will adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15778	Thank you. Dr. Dejan Djurdjevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15779	Thank you. I would just like to refer to one of the remarks that reached the government in the form of amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, as regards the publication of the rules of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts and the publication of the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia mentions the issue in article 1. It states in Article 1(2) that the general acts of the body of the autonomous province, municipalities and cities are published in a manner determined by the autonomous province, municipalities and the city. This provision is literally taken over from Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to jurisdiction, this National Assembly can only regulate the publication of acts brought by the Republic authorities, the Constitution, the laws, acts of the Government, and so on. The National Assembly has no mandate to regulate the autonomous province and units of local self-government to publish their acts. The constitution has passed it on to autonomous provinces and units of local self-government into their jurisdiction. As for the practice of prescribing constitutional provisions in the law, I don't think there's any need for that. This, in some ways, violates the Constitution and this Article 196. The constitution applies even when some of his provisions have not been transposed into some law. This provision is a source of law and it must be applied. The second thing, such a practice, as is now in force in the law, creates some wrong impression, as if the Republic had passed on its laws to local self-government units and an autonomous province the possibility of self-organising how they would publish their acts, which is not true. It was passed on to them by the constitutionmaker and therefore we felt there was no need to convince us in the law, nor to prescribe the provisions of the Constitution. We just need to work out what is not worked out in the Constitution and what the founder has transferred to this Parliament's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15780	National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15781	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Presidency, Mr. Djurdjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really expected Mr. Justice and State Administration to sit in front of us today, but if he was prevented, I don't mind having a word with you either. Since it is a relatively good law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts, we do not have any more concrete objections to the law. We also really support this regulatory reform and the information of society, and it seems to me to be a key element for the quality of this law. We also support some newspapers with regard to the publication of these judgments and decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. These are all the good solutions that we LDP can and must support. Also, with regard to this second proposal, the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, we can also declare that we will support this bill. We believe that this change, which has been proposed, is good and quality, since it actually prevents one person convicted of the most serious crimes of 40 years from suddenly changing his status with regard to the maintenance of the sentence by reducing his sentence if he accepts to be a convicted associate. So we would support both of these bill proposals. We actually have such an approach when we talk about laws that primarily appreciate the content of the proposed laws, we appreciate the reasons for adopting the same and the goals that are to be achieved. In this case, we believe that all these three elements are positive and that they correspond to the LDP policy. When we talk about the draft law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts, we can realize that here is actually only one phase of lawmaking, not irrelevant, but it is only one segment of the procedure and everything that makes the preparation, adoption, implementation and implementation of the law itself. That is why, when we talk about this issue today, we must also refer to the laws that are passed in Serbia, to the application, that is, the implementation of these laws and to the judiciary which is one of the key elements when it comes to the application of the laws adopted. Let's start with law-making, or law-proposing. Therefore, this takes into account the reasons why the legislator has offered to propose the same to parliament, which is contained in these laws and what is wanted to be achieved with these laws. When we analyse the legislative activity of this current government, we can conclude several facts. First of all, I would like to point out that 77 legal proposals by the previous government were withdrawn from the assembly procedure here about July of last year. From July until the end of April this year, some 156-157 new laws were passed. When we analyze the laws here, we can realize that half of these 156-157 refers to ratifications of certain international contracts, agreements, etc. So there are about half the laws that should regulate a certain more serious content of all these key problems that burden our country. When we look at these 70 laws, and within those 70 laws, we can find that a large number of those that concern purely some legal and technical changes and additions, which are essentially not reforming the legal system, that is, not some newspaper that is necessary and necessary. In fact, we can conclude that this power has failed with regard to legislative activity. We have come to this situation so that we can appreciate the effect of this government as an unsatisfactory effect, because almost twice as many laws have been passed than the number of laws that have been withdrawn from the procedure. When we talk about law enforcement, what can we say? Obviously, there's some kind of disharm between what really wanted to change and what it really wants to apply. Because if that weren't the case, it wouldn't have happened if the sublegal acts hadn't somehow been brought in on time. What's more, these sublegal acts, which should actually enable law enforcement. Most of the time, certain specific laws cannot apply and remain a dead letter on paper, no matter how good they are. This is usually a constant problem that was also characteristic of the previous government and only actually continues with one bad practice. I would also like to point out the case of the Law on Public Enterprises about these law enforcement. In particular, I'd like to link it to the public firm, the official messenger. Namely, Mr. Ljusic's face was appointed as the director of this public company, days before the application of the Law on Public Enterprises, which foresees in fact the existence and a certain procedure which, when it comes to the directors of public enterprises of such importance, and how it took care who can run at all, who can enter a narrow selection and who can be elected director. So, there has already been a situation that is simply absurd, and it is such a significant public enterprise as the Republic Public Messenger, and it is simply incomprehensible that in the first step, when it comes to publishing laws and other general acts, there is such a mistake that is in fact jeopardising some integrity of the Official Messenger. I would especially point out here that it is interesting that when these laws are applied somehow there is selective law enforcement, or it is not often taken into account the consequences of this law. A good example of this is the Law on Amnesty, which was adopted in this House and which produced such a situation that a very large number of convicted persons were released before the time of freedom. Then it happens that hooligans attack abroad the leader of the opposition party, Cedomir Jovanovic. They're hooligans who've been amnesty. One of them had 19 criminal charges for 31 crimes. In doing so, the minister of justice did not find it appropriate to react to the case, and he explained the Amnesty Act here and spoke so highly of the law, recommending it to the MPs to adopt it. Now that such an unkind case occurs, that one of these amnesties is such a difficult form of crime, the minister simply doesn't advertise. Another event that is also very characteristic of the issue of law enforcement, i.e. for adequate reactions by competent authorities, including the Ministry of Justice, is what happened last week at a rally, where certain governments kept people alive, and these living people are MPs and ministers in the current government of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, the Honorable Presidency and Mr. Djurdjevic, to draw attention to the fact that this is a very serious crime that has not been adequately addressed and we have not heard a clear and concrete verdict by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration and they have also been obliged to make a statement about it. Since they were proposing, they explained, in particular, the minister of justice explained certain changes to both the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and he is very well aware that prosecutors are independent in the work but are not independent. It is simply part of their responsibility to report if the constitutional order of this state and security is threatened, especially the security of ministers and MPs. So it's all about the Corps of this topic of law publishing and other regulations. That is why we can never look at in one narrow way any law that comes into this Parliament, but we must put it in the context of everything that is happening in the state and in society, and it seems to me that this context and how problematic it is. For this reason, when such drafts of the law appear, we, on these proposals of the law, plead in a positive way and in this context which is so problematic we can only criticise and question the way, the speed of action and in fact the right will to meet the problems and not just react when these problems arise. We cannot lose sight of how the Justice Minister has decided to protest certain Hague verdicts. We cannot forget his attitude towards the Hague indictees or convicts, so it is rather a problem if the minister does not declare such acts of terrorism and inciting and inciting the conduct of certain crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15782	Mrs Popovic, just to warn you, therefore, Minister Selakovic is not the subject of today's agenda. So the legal proposals we're considering certainly do not belong to what you're discussing. So, I listened very carefully and let you connect one part of the discussion to that, but now that you've crossed a fine line, please get back to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15783	Thank you, Mr. President. I wouldn't agree with you if it weren't for this debate. It is the subject of this debate because it is about the laws and the minister of justice should indeed appear today and declare this bill which today represents and defends Mr. Djurdjevic, as well as to declare certain approaches, a certain policy of his ministry and him personally on events in Serbia, about events that are speeding up in a negative way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15784	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djurdjevic, I'm glad you're here today because I personally appreciate you and I've had the opportunity to work with you many times now, but I'm sorry that today is not Mr. Selakovic because I would have had the opportunity to ask him a lot of things that have not been made clear to us lately. With that in mind, my speech today will be something different from what I planned. If I am not mistaken, today we are discussing only a few months' time for the third time the amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The situation that we have in the country today is that at one address on the Stavnica Street in Belgrade, there is one Code of Criminal Procedure, in the Court of Justice, the second Code of Criminal Procedure, which is essentially two distinct texts of the laws. We have recently delayed the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure here in the Assembly on 1 October 2013, and that we had to, that is, my opinion and the opinion of my parliamentary group, to then discuss a completely new text of the Code of Criminal Procedure which, in the end of the case, the Ministry of Justice prepared and which exists as the finished text which we had the opportunity to see on the website of the Ministry of Justice in the form of a draft and which, in the end of the case, is a better legal text than that of which we have delayed recently. Now, we are discussing a single code today, more specifically, a partial amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, more specifically, only one member of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was filed by the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group. I don't want to be simply misunderstood, it's a good change that we're going to support, but I have to say that I really can't find any rational justification, an explanation, an argument that has made this intervention of the Justice Ministry since we've already had several laws or amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act have not been included in any of these legal proposals before. It would simply be rational, not only in financial terms, but it would be rational because today we would not waste time on something that should have been an integral part of the legal solution that we had discussed earlier. It seems to me that the Justice Department doesn't have a clear plan either, there's no clear strategy on what to do with the Code of Criminal Procedure and the fact that we are today discussing this partial change in this code is the best proof of it. Of course, this proposal, which has been tabled by the SPO parliamentary group and the DHSS, determines who cannot be a convicted associate and as I said, is very well understood because the law, as today says, can indeed cause certain adverse consequences to a variety of free people, and I could say at the same time – and by misreading those who are in charge of the application of that law. Of course, this text provides that a convicted associate cannot be a person, meaning a convicted organised by a criminal group or a person who has been sentenced to 40 years in prison. In criminal law, convicted associates or accused associates play a very important role, primarily in allowing for more effective criminal proceedings, not only for crimes but also for crimes of classical crime, war crimes, etc. When it comes to a plea bargain, then the principle of efficiency in the conduct of a criminal procedure should not ignore or even suppress the principle of justice. In that sense, I find this intervention submitted by my colleagues really very important because this way it removes such an opportunity. On the other hand, the question arises whether justice would be satisfied that a person sentenced to maximum prison sentence, say 40 years for multiple brutal murder, child murder or any other serious crime, would justice be satisfied to find that person free after a certain time, just because he just decided to co-operate with the prosecution? I don't think in that case we could talk about any justice and the satisfaction of justice. In that sense, I find this provision very significant. Criminally-price law has been in recent years, to say in the last decade, often changed. The legal solution that was valid until 2009 and which was related to an associate's witness predicted even the possibility of the prosecutor giving up prosecution and indeed, it is a solution that is rarely found in modern European legislation. At that time, the injured, in that situation, had no right even to seek compensation from the state, and the state could not take away the property benefit of the accused’s face by committing a crime. As I was saying, this kind of favored attitude towards the defendants, it's hard to find somewhere in some modern European criminal-processing legislation. In Germany, there is the Institute of Crown Witnesses, but in this situation, the accused punishment could have been reduced, but it could not have been done to free the person from prosecution, or to be released from punishment. On the other hand, this legal solution was later amended by the 2009 law, where it is said that the person is always found guilty, so he can no longer be innocent as in the previous legal solution was valid and then the damaged could have filed a claim for damages to the state, and the state could have taken away the property benefit that was obtained by carrying out the crime. On the other hand, in 2011, when we re-edited the criminal legislation was returned to an earlier solution, the solution we had in fact before 2009, that the prosecutor could give up prosecution if, of course, the defendants were to make some cooperative statement. The Code of Criminal Procedure, in my deepest conviction, is completely wrongly conceptually altered, for the simple reason that it now contains a series of bad, a series of illogical and even anti-constitutional provisions. That is why ours, perhaps the boring insistence that it is necessary for the new text of the Code of Criminal Procedure to be found on the agenda of the Assembly. His most significant bad trait is that the criminal proceedings completely eliminate the principle of truth, without which the court can't actually exist. The truth has always been inextricably linked to the court, and now we have a situation that she was absolutely eliminated from the criminal proceedings. Furthermore, this solution does not only harm citizens, but it does harm the state, and I would love, given that still the legislative proposal, it has come into effect, but it is not applied, that we do not come into a situation to face the harmful consequences that it can cause. Of course, his second, very bad trait is that, in a very bad way, he defined the procedure for conducting the prosecution investigation. We, as a party, are not against running a prosecutor's investigation, but we believe that it must be more clearly defined. As expected, around the prosecutor is expected to be impartial, objective in the conduct of a criminal procedure, and if you look at his constitutional definition, then it's impossible. It's impossible because the prosecutor under the Constitution is subject to the executive authority. He, as counterpart Popovic said, is not independent, but is an independent organ. In that sense, we cannot expect him to be impartial and objective in the prosecution's investigation, when it is completely contrary to his constitutional and legal position. Of course, these are just some of the most large concerns of the CAP that we will hopefully have much more opportunities to talk about when the new text of the Code comes on the agenda. We will vote, as I said, for this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, because we believe that it really defines in a better way a member that is currently foreseen in the Code, but at the same time we express one of our disdain for the absence of every kind of strategy and every kind of vision when it comes to the Ministry of Justice, because the Ministry of Justice, I would say, today is not exactly the clearest vision of what to do with the Code of Criminal Procedure, because for a modern democratic state, if we can call ourselves that, it is not acceptable to discuss every two months the partial amendments of the Code of Criminal Procedure. When it comes to this second law, it is the Law on the Publishing of Laws and Other Regulations and Acts, and I personally believe that in some provisions he had to suffer legal and technical order, only then should he be referred to the assembly procedure. When I say this, I mean primarily that it contains certain categories that the Constitution recognises by reading the law and really, I couldn't understand at the moment what the constitutional amendment is, and then I only later realized that the Proposer thought of an act amending the Constitution, and the international agreement also doesn't mention, he mentions the international treaty, and for those reasons which may seem to be technical at first glance, I think that their importance is very different, that it overcomes the technical meaning and that it is necessary to change until it adopts this point. I'd say something else that may not be directly related to this law, but it does refer to the publication of the law at all. In our domestic legislative practice, it's widespread, it's taken the wave of the fact that when we pass laws, we predict one deadline for the law to come into force, and another deadline for its application. I think it's a solution that doesn't comply with the Constitution, because the Constitution simply doesn't know such a solution. This isn't my opinion, I've read about this in many legal theorists, and I'd like to appeal to a professor. The grouper who believes that these two moments, the moment of entry into force of the law and the moment of its application should not be separated. It should not exist in the legal life of a certain law or regulation without it being put into effect, but not applied. Now I think of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure, I return to my previous exposure, we adopt, he enters into force, but does not apply. So, we have delayed its application several times so far, and we have the key consequence that two addresses in Belgrade are specifically subject to two different Codes of Criminal Procedure, which I absolutely find unacceptable. I don't want to be longer, I think that our legislative activity needs much more respect for the profession and much less politics, because the best proof of what happens with the right when the policy oversees and reforms of the judiciary. I hope we can all get our strength together, because time has been running away, for a year now, we have a elected justice minister, and we haven't yet set out to remove any of the mistakes that have been produced or made in the reform of the judiciary. I hope that when removing these mistakes produced in judicial reform, a much greater role or a major role will be played by experts, I mean judges and prosecutors, lawyers, and fewer politicians, because this would mean that we are literally continuing the path of falling from error to error, which at this point, and hopefully never should be the goal of anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15786	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15787	Mr President, Mr Directors of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives, Honored counterparts and colleagues, MPs, the DS parliamentary group will support both the draft laws and the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, proposed by the SPO-DHSS Group, as well as the draft law on the publication of laws and regulations and acts. The fact is that there may be a certain need for small amendment interventions by the board, some texts to be prepared, but I have to say that one and the other bill is at the heart of what the DS stands for. The fact is that the principles of good legislative policy include ensuring full legal certainty and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, full respect for hierarchy and mutual compliance with rules, ensuring full transparency and openness throughout the legislative process, including improving the overall process. So, the publication of laws and other regulations and acts and allowing as wide a circle of people as possible to be familiar with legal solutions, to existing legal solutions and to certain databases that are related to the regulations and acts adopted and possibly to the implementation of those regulations and acts. The fact is that one large group of Members of 25 MPs, all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives or members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, have come together to the working text of the Legislative Policy Resolution, which we expect to be discussed here at the plenary session in a relatively short period. The fact is that these are the ones most called amongst us, who are dealing with these very tasks, meaning, on the one hand, the harmonisation of the rules with the Constitution, and on the other hand, which are dealing with the analysis of legislative policy, have, among other things, indicated that the legislative procedure should respect, among other things, the following principles, the principle of simplification, which implies simple procedures with the possibility of using modern instruments, without unnecessary burdens, the codification of individual areas and the preparation of consolidated texts, prevention, amendment and addition of one regulation to another, as well as the suspension of the application of regulations which has already taken effect, without justifiable reasons. On the other hand, respect for the principle of accessibility, which requires the competent authorities to ensure public knowledge, with new rules in different time limits for application, which only exceptionally may be shorter than those prescribed by the Constitution, and to provide free access to the updated and simple bases of applicable regulations. It underlines the issue of the adoption and publication of laws and other regulations and accessibility, and the making of consolidated texts. The fact is that this motion for a resolution in legislative policy, submitted and submitted to the procedure in the National Assembly on 8 March 2013, and it is obvious that I am the draft law on the publication of laws and regulations and acts, corresponds well with this motion for a resolution in the legislative policy, which should improve the overall legislative policy in our country and which should be a guide to all participants in the legislative process, that our laws are as good as possible and better implemented. The fact is that this law, in practice, draws closer to discussing the provisions of the Constitution, the provision of Article 196. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the publication of laws and other general acts. What's new and what's good is that precisely because there's been an improvement in modern information technologies and electronic means of communication, it's this new moment that wasn't present when the last regulation was passed. That's good, because there's a possibility that now with an adequate connection, practically pressing a button on any computer, anyone who can have a database available can immediately be informed of what is currently in force. I believe that there is room for amendments to this law, and above all, as regards Article 29. The bill, with regard to access to regulations and other acts, on the one hand, access to regulations and other acts, what is published in "the Official Messenger", means that it will be accessible to all. However, I think it is useful to have access to the base containing the case law, that another number of entities should be allowed. Now, that's where we can discuss who needs to be made available to that base. Personally, I think it should be possible for the larger circle of subjects to be available to that base. I think it should certainly be available to courts, public prosecutors, the Republic Public Attorney's Office and the Judicial Academy. I believe that this base should also be available to all other defences at other levels of government, because there is no excuse for something to be made available to the Republic of Public Attorney's Office without making it available to public defenders, who protect the interests of local communities, or to say other levels of government. In that sense, this expansion should be considered. Then, not only the Justice Academy, but all those who are trying to educate the staff. So if we agree now on what, to whom access to the base should be accessible without compensation, I think we should also enable other institutions dealing with legal aid, where the interests of citizens are practically protected. Should the Protector of the Citizens have free access to the base containing the case law? Is the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality supposed to have free access? All of these are in a way, not state institutions, the institutions of all Serbian citizens. In that sense, I believe that there is a way to fund, maintain the system and that database. For example, why are those involved in providing legal assistance, professionally, professionally, who already allocate not small funds to the state, is it justified to allow them to access this base, rather than bid today-to-day, who will be cheaper, some base that is not complete on the market and lobby in this and that, which will certainly be less complete than a central state-level base? So I'm pushing for it to be covered from the budget, and anyone who has the will to get acquainted with court practice, so we'd better all be well informed. So, not just lawyers, but every citizen who's legally written, can get into it. Why doesn't he have any information on what kind of legal practice it is? In that regard, I believe that we are facing a task on the Committee on Justice, to consider the possibility of submitting an amendment of this kind. On the other hand, I believe that until we move to review the amendments, we need to carry out an evaluation of when this session will literally end, or when there will be a vote. Eventually, if we estimate that we will get very close on 1 June 2013, and in that part of the Committee can submit an amendment that only the entry into force of July 1, 2013, so that there is no overlap, I say more legally that it is useful and think about it, means, and bring those dates in line. Otherwise, I would like to welcome it, Mr. Djordjevic, which is the term "this law comes into force" in Article 39, and I hope that if we use further terms of "application" rather than "application" and if there is a uniform practice, we will not be in a situation when foreigners come to Serbia to ask – and what does "application" mean to us, and what does that mean to us, "in force", is that not the same concept? That's why I want to point out all the loose ends, but all the good things that came up in the bill. In any case, I urge all of you to, first of all, start reviewing the law under the amendments, try to complete Article 29. The bill and to come up with a proposal that will really enable the transparency and clarity of every regulation and the availability of every regulation to every individual in the state, especially those who are professionally concerned with the protection of the interests of citizens or the truth, means that we should extend the circle of subjects. That's what I think we're going to contribute to total legal certainty. In any case, the DS parliamentary group supports both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15788	Dr. Dejan Djurdjevic. Just answer it one more time, please, Mr. Djurdjevic. You have to answer it one more time, just to give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15789	I would like to thank the parliamentary groups who support the draft law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts. I'd just like to look back on a few questions. As regards these objections regarding the use of the term - constitutional amendments and the Act amending the Constitution. The Act of Change of the Constitution is one of the names described, and the constitutions have always changed with constitutional amendments, so I don't see in that terminology that something fundamentally changes. I'd just like to remind you of one more moment. This 1991 law, which is today in force, uses the term "constitutional amendments". It was revised after 2006, when the current constitution was adopted. So, if that were so much a problem, probably someone in 2006 who proposed to change that law would intervene. As far as these terms are concerned, the law's entry into force and the law's application begins, it's one question that a broad academic discussion can be conducted. Now I would speak more as a law professor than as a law director. I personally agree with what my esteemed colleague Milica Radovic and counterpart Srdjan Mikovic said. The entry into force of the law is defined as a moment when the law begins to apply. However, in our practice it is very long-rooted to separate these two things in laws. For example, as early as 1982, a law on Serbia's non-parnical procedure was passed that still applies today. He's making that distinction. It says -- the law takes effect on the eighth day since its publication in "The Official Messenger", then the Socialist Republic of Serbia is starting to apply, and has set some deadline since 1 January 1983. The interpretations of lawyers are different in this regard. Some call for article 196. The Constitution that says - laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of publication. Somewhere they see it as an imperative commandment that it must be in the law that it enters into force on the eighth day of the day of publication. Then, if he wants the law to start later to be applied to prepare the legal order for a new law, then he's terminologically separating and saying – it starts to apply from a later point. However, this constitutional provision does not provide the basis for such interpretation. There is another school of opinions that believes that when certain sublaws, regulations, regulations, etc. are required for the implementation of a law to be implemented, it is necessary to adopt certain sublegislative acts, so that when the law comes into force, then the Government and other entities are empowered to adopt the sublegal acts necessary for the implementation of the law, and then, at some later point, it will all start to apply. This problem is very old in our legal order my research led me to 1982. I think the National Assembly is most invited to cut through the methodological rules. I support this, that there is no need to separate the law's entry into force and start applying. I've demonstrated that by working on this law, but in order to even it out, it's necessary to change the general methodological rules for writing regulations. As far as your observations regarding Article 29 are concerned, it is also very discriminatory and requires one measurement of different interests. What's the situation with the official messenger now? What everyone who came in contact with that public enterprise can tell you is this. The Secretary of the National Assembly and my smallness as Director of the Secretariat for Legislatives and the General Secretariat of the Presidency – we send the acts for publication and we never paid for it. So they never gave us the invoice and told us – now for the publication of this law, the regulation, the general sublaw, pay us so much. This country never wondered where it was financed from? They finance it, in part, from the subscription, and one part from doing their business activities. They publish various advertising for employment, advertising for public procurement, publishing legal literature, etc. The subscription was dramatically reduced the moment the electronic databases appeared. The number of "Official Messenger" subscribers has fallen dramatically. Following the importance of the Public Procurement Act, revenues from the publication of advertising for the public procurement of the public company were reduced by 90%. Now the question arises – from what will they finance the publication of the regulations that we send? We have to keep this company safe and we can't publish the regulations in the daily newspaper. That's why this bill introduced funding from the budget. Look, there's now one question of balance. Can we make everything that this company does completely free of charge to all users, or can't we? Somewhere I'm prepared, based on the conversations I had with the official messenger's executives, to support this amendment of yours regarding making court practice available to courts, prosecutors, the Republican Attorney's Office, the judicial academy. As far as I know, I have received notices that the committee responsible will prepare an appropriate amendment in that section. As far as this is concerned, I think that all of this would put the Public Business "officer" in a difficult financial situation, so that they could not obtain the means to publish those regulations. As regards the entry into force of this law, it is scheduled to enter into force on 1 June. The law was sent to the congregation in good time. It didn't insist on an emergency procedure. If the Assembly can hold until May 23rd, that would be some last moment, if it were to pass this law, then we would stick to constitutional and legal deadlines. He could be in "The Official Messenger" published on 24 May and on the eighth day since the publication in "The Official Messenger" he would enter into force. If the National Assembly were to assess that this law could not be passed on May 23rd, then the Committee of the National Assembly would have to go with some amendment to the last member of this law and replace the word on June 1st with a later date — June 10th or 15th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15790	Replica, MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15791	Only with regard to some debate on access to a court-law base, because if the amendment of the committee follows, I would like to present an immediate thought that you, on the other hand, would be prepared for a plea in this regard. There is another number of institutions, independent regulatory bodies and what practically exists not only in the Constitution but also in the laws, where we are all interested in being notified to the maximum, means court practice. In this context, another consideration should be given to a session of the Committee on Justice which will likely consider the possibility of amendments, whether there are other institutions besides courts, public prosecutors, the Republic of Public Prosecutors and the Judicial Academy. It's another thing. We have those who protect interests. I mean the lawyers at local self-government. In that sense, if they protect the interests of local self-government, it's a small state. Is that supposed to be possible in some way, access to them? I did that if it is now impossible for these databases to be widely regulated, that, in some future period, the sources of funding, maintenance of that database should be otherwise regulated. There is the possibility of any budgetary intrusion or anyone, and then from the budget to practically finance a general useful thing, where there is the possibility of quality control of that base, because every other base is not subject to a control test and does not involve the consent of the government in the population, and here it implies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15792	The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15793	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Djurdjevic, fellow MPs, as regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, proposed by fellow MPs from the SPI and DHSS Group, I believe that the same changes are good. It is necessary to improve the current CAP. They contribute to continuing the fight against corruption and crime. The SNS parliamentary group will support these changes. As regards the draft law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts, this bill contributes greatly to the greater information of legal and natural persons, as well as the introduction of a more modern way of publishing the rules. In addition to the fact that this bill is closer to regulating the work of issuing the "Official Messenger" as an act of general interest, the issues of publication of acts in the "Official Messenger" have been settled, i.e. the acts must be published and have the obligation to publish, as well as acts which are not subject to publication obligations. It is also intended to make mandatory publication of the European Court of Human Rights verdicts and confirmed international agreements. Chapter III also addresses the issue of how the laws and other regulations and acts are published. Chapter IV draws closer to the organized form of publishing and editing of the "Official Messenger". The important paper adopted by this bill is the identification of the electronic form of the Republic's "Official Messenger", which will be the official edition in printed form. Such a legal solution goes into step with time, especially in terms of information technology and a faster way of communication. This also reduces the costs of the procurement and distribution of the "Official Messenger" and increases the productivity of the work of state authorities, legal and natural persons. I think it is important to note that all EU members have an online edition of their Official Messenger, so this is a newspaper that contributes to a step-by-step with EU member states. Furthermore, the establishment of the legal and information system of the Republic of Serbia as a separate newspaper, which is closer organised by Chapter V of the Bill, which will represent a unique database and use it in one part without paying compensation for all Internet users is an exceptional solution. In this way, certain data will become more accessible and transparent to all who need to have insight into them. Due to the above-mentioned, i.e. the introduction of an electronic "officer" and free access to the Regulation collection, revenue will fall on the basis of the subscription from which the JP "Official Messenger" is financed, and for this reason it is also envisaged to partially finance, i.e. providing the necessary funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the decline in sales from income, partial financing from the Republic's budget is needed, so the proposed solution is considered comprehensive, especially if it is considered to be applied in 11 EU countries with partial budget financing. The draft law provides for a way to determine the amount of funds provided in the budget. In its explanation of the bill, the government cited the amount to be allocated to the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget. I believe that the solution to this bill will have a positive impact on the work of the state authorities, both legal and natural persons, because the "Official Messenger" will be more accessible to them, the regulations are more transparent, and the work itself is much more productive. The bill is another one in a series of draft laws showing that the competent ministry is working in the best possible way. I hope that this bill, like so far proposed by the Ministry of Justice, will be voted in the voting day if not unanimously, then by a large majority. Given the solution envisioned by the draft law before us, the SNS parliamentary group will support it, and I urge you to support the continued reform led by the ministry in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15794	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that we have before us a law that so far all MP groups have adopted unanimously, which best speaks of the quality of the law, on the one hand. On the other hand, it seems to me that it was necessary for this law to be passed perhaps earlier, that we may not have recognized the moment and needs of citizens and businesses in previous years and that we put citizens and businesses in a position to have unnecessary costs, to pay often and unnecessary penalties for not knowing the law, because of the chaos that existed in some electronic databases, because of their unsatisfactoryness, that citizens had increased costs because they had to hire third parties who helped them when putting together a variety of submissions that they referred to various institutions and that there were a large number of errors in communication with the institutions and the very economy. I think it is very important for the citizens themselves to understand that this new law in many ways facilitates their everyday life, that in fact, in one place, they will have the opportunity to find all the acts and acts of the most relevant institutions in the country. If you'll excuse me, I'd read them so the citizens know what they can expect from this law. These are acts by the National Assembly, the Government, the President of the Republic, the ministries, the Constitutional Court, the High Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, the public prosecutors, the National Bank of Serbia, and the European Court of Human Rights. So, the full legal procedure. All those following the acts that follow the laws will be found in both the printed and the electronic edition of the Official Messenger. I believe that the special quality, which I fully agree with my colleagues who have already spoken, is an electronic edition that should be really important in the future to facilitate access to all the legal acts that are here and this Assembly brings about daily. So, the electronic edition goes in the direction of modernising the entire state administration, which I would say, all the parliamentary groups, rationalising and the state administration, the more efficient work of the state administration, which is beyond what we need, and I think more economical work of the institutions. In this sense, I think we should commend "the Official Messenger" which is one of the first institutions to start reorganising and reforming institutions. I hope that the other institutions will also go with this example of "Official Messenger", and that in the future we will have many more of these institutions that facilitate access, which facilitate the everyday life of citizens, which means more transparent institutions, which mean the democratisation of institutions, I would say, and in particular I think that business conditions make it much easier because we have a large number of entrepreneurial actions, i.e. entrepreneurs more precisely, which are often not fully informed of the latest legal acts and often come into a situation where they make unnecessary mistakes and have excessive costs in their business. The reform of the public sector is certainly ahead of us and will be very serious. This is just one small piece of complete reform, one small stone, but on a good path, since it has the support of all parliamentary groups and will mean a lot in the next period, I believe, and other institutions that will be able to look up to this example. I think the solutions relating to funding from the budget at this point are very good. I understand differences in opinion when it comes to paying for court fees and the need to release as many users as possible in that part. Let me, at this point in time to see how the law will live and how the "officer" will be able to finance itself in the future, it seems to me that this additional source of funding is very necessary if we figure out what problems we have in the budget. We also need to be aware that we all need to be much more rational in spending the funds and that the budget, given fiscal consolidation, will have a lot of problems in the future, so we need to allow as much additional revenue as possible to the "officer" so that it can survive, so that it can be preserved, because this institution is certainly of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. So, one commendation for the official messenger, commendation for the government. I think this is how you go to meet the problems that have been accumulated in the previous period, that this way you don't run away from the problem. In Voting Day, you will have SNS support, support to continue institutional reforms, reforms that are needed through Serbia at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15796	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15797	Good day to the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, the Code of Criminal Procedure has been matured for a fundamental change. We entered one of the manners of the previous government, which is that every few months or every month or every regular session, we have at least one, and there has been more changes in the CAP. It was either a criminal procedure or a protected witness or someone who needed to be a protected witness, until we changed the law, we adjusted to comply with the needs of the current authority. What we expect as a party, as we are and now always advocated, is that as a state, we have to make one law on criminal proceedings that would be in line with reality, with the needs of the state and that would in some ways direct the criminal procedure that is being conducted and bring it into line with those trends that exist and that are good and contributes to the objective of criminal proceedings, which is to establish truth and fair judgment and justice, which is the ultimate goal. For a long time, the professional public has warned of the fact that truth in criminal proceedings is no longer possible, that it is not a topic, but it all comes down to meetings attended by the professional public, professors from the institute, from the university, judges from the courts, lawyers, where the truth is said it is no longer a subject of procedure, but merely a probability. By the law of probability, a verdict is made. Whether it is 60, 70, 90%, and some judges themselves say that they judge when the probability of something is 80 or 85%, which is bad for us and which can lead to wrongful judgments, be incorrect and come to the point that in some cases those who have not done or have been more severe or mildly condemned by those who have committed an act, which is not known or known, and for some reasons for the free impression of the judge, there has been no fair and just condemnation and therefore the satisfaction of the entire justice system and the victims who are the consequences of this procedure. We believe that Serbia needs a total change in the CAP, that Serbia should adopt either a new Code or enter into the fundamental changes to this existing Code. The law on criminal proceedings as it is with many amendments, and if this rate of change continues, even the legislators themselves will not know what the current version of this law is. They'll know if they work hard to find him, but basically the case law we're talking a lot about here can't be formed if we keep changing the CAP. Judicial practice as one of the sources of law, which we were taught at law school in the first year of law, cannot exist if we are constantly changing laws and there is no certainty of the duration of one regulation that we adopt under the law. Whether it's the CAP, whether it's laws that determine penalties or define other things, not only in the CAP, but in all other things, but one certainty must exist. That is why we are calling and asking for access to the fundamental changes of the CAP, especially since the working groups formed by the previous ministry, the ministry before it and this current ministry already have finished texts that both professors from law school and judges and lawyers from their practice. It just needs to be decided and thoroughly approached by changes in the CAP, which we stand for. In this way and with such an approach, we do not contribute to legal certainty every two months with minor amendments to the Code and do not contribute to the truth and to the satisfaction of justice which is the objective of criminal proceedings. As a party, we will support amendments to this bill proposed by DHSS MPs. The second part of this point is the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts. An important law, although not particularly attractive for discussion, is a law that is important and represents the last link in the process of adopting acts and laws. It provides for the entry into force of the law. I would agree with you and my colleague, Mikovic, that one term should be introduced, and that is the entry into force. The application and entry into force can lead to confusion and delay the entry into force of a law by postponing it. We have a lot of laws that haven't been applied yet. The law on notaries whose application is delayed, then going to change, and that is one of the laws that is important for the construction of the legal system in general of the state administration, because they assume one jurisdiction from the judiciary and the state administration. Here we are talking about the need for laws to be applied when they enter into force. What is very important is co-operation between the official messenger himself as a public enterprise that has been given to perform this important segment in the state administration itself, in the entire system of state, government, assembly and other services and bodies that publish their laws. In this sense, the importance of the secretariat is important, but this is already mentioned here, the secretariat itself is obliged to take care of the publication of the law, steal, wish it were a mistake or a draft in translation, since there are no constitutional amendments in Serbia, existed until 1974, and when they changed the Constitution to constitutional amendments, there is no constitutional amendment now in modern Serbian practice. The Constitution does not know constitutional amendments as a way of changing the Constitution. Find anywhere in the Constitution to change the Constitution by constitutional amendments. The Constitution knows the procedure for changing the Constitution. Of course, it can change the whole constitution to the initiative, there's a way to change it, but constitutional amendments are something that we can see from an Anglo-Saxon practice if we're following legal series that's being recorded in Hollywood, but in our practice, constitutional amendments still don't exist. The term of constitutional amendments should be avoided. We hope that you, as the director of the Secretariat, are taking care of it and that this is just one mistake that got lost, and the justification that if there was a mistake in the previous law and has not been amended in 2006, does not mean that you need to repeat the same mistake now. If we missed the chance to change it once, we should now take advantage of the opportunity to change this member. We have proposed an amendment that is deleted -- constitutional amendments and is added -- an act amending the Constitution, which is more consistent with the Constitution, and I hope you will have the hearing of adopting such an amendment. Another thing, right there's a presumption of knowing the rules. Citizens and all those who are subject to rights have an obligation to know the rules, whether they are guilty or in any other form. We therefore believe that the data that will be, documents, court practice, laws on the legal and information system will be made available free of charge to all citizens. If the Constitution assumes that we all know the rules and that this is the way, you, when you fall under some criminal procedure or criminal procedure or under any procedure that the state is going against you, there is a assumption that you know that regulation. In order for every citizen to know a regulation, if he already has a sanction for certain behaviour, the state needs to ensure that a citizen can get to know himself free of charge, and that all citizens are not the same, that they are not lawyers or a judicial academy in favour of some ordinary citizens who fall under the same rules as everyone else. We as a party have an amendment for that. It is necessary to ensure, of course, that the state itself compensates, if there is any cost to the official messenger, that the state makes up for it. We also believe that "The Official Messenger", his superior role should be to deal with the publication of these documents, to make it more up-to-date and better and to be in line with time. So far, the official messenger has been losing our clients because everyone has been past him in this informal publication, AICOM and all the other websites and databases that existed. "The official messenger" is the assumption of the accuracy of a certain act and it must be absolutely available to everyone. What's my point, is that the Assembly should have on its member's board of directors, in addition to the government and the secretariats, that the assembly that passed the laws has its own member, precisely because of this editorial, because of the changes that are happening here at the right time. There have been various cases where the board and the government bring some amendments, something is adopted, which is not entirely in line. That's our proposal. This law is an improvement compared to previous laws. We, depending on which amendments are accepted, will decide in the voting day whether we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15798	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15799	Thank you. As for the use of the term "constitutional amendments", it does not appear to be used since 1974. I am aware that the term of many in Serbia, to us lawyers, sounds ominous because of this historic burden he was carrying, but I would remind you that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was changed in 2000 by constitutional amendments. Now, if the Constitution were to be changed, I don't know how would the amendment act be addressed differently than the constitutional amendment? In theory, an act amending the Constitution is called the constitutional amendment. I don't mind, in principle, respecting this constitutional formulation, meaning to deviate from this formulation that is in the existing law and that these amendments, constitutional amendments, are replaced by the words "the Act of Change of the Constitution", but I really don't see it as a fundamental remark that could create a problem in legal traffic. I can't accept that it's something that was abandoned in 1974. So, in 2000, the Constitution of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was changed by an act entitled the constitutional amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15800	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15801	On this occasion, I am talking about the Constitution of Serbia, not the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I am talking about the practice that existed since the adoption of the Milosevic-era Constitution, so the Constitution in 2006 and now that they do not know it. We think we should keep an act on amending the Constitution. Constitutional amendments, it's just one historic bad liquid that doesn't need to be returned and in modern practice we don't have these changes, we're going to change the Constitution. The Constitution knows only the act of amending the Constitution, and I think that formulation should be kept in the law so that we don't enter any additional confusion, because the essence is the same, but this may be, in our opinion, here we are when we talked about this amendment, the essence is the same, but the name is how important, that we don't introduce some new constitutional amendments, which are contrary to the very spirit of the Constitution, which we brought in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15802	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15803	The esteemed chairman, honourable Mr. Djurdjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, the respected citizens of Serbia, will cast their vote on the two draft laws that are before us today. It is obvious that the proposal made by the ministry, as well as by the SPO parliamentary group, has hit the centre itself, because all parliamentary groups, with fewer deviations, if their amendments are accepted, and I believe that they will be accepted if they are justified and factually justified, vote for both draft laws. This will also be done by the SNS as the creator of this government and as the headquarters of the Republic Government, who, along with his coalition partners, has been exercising power for almost a year now, I would say, in a very representative way, by providing timely proposals for laws, but also giving proposals to amend those same laws if life or legal practice or events confirm that something is wrong. We here confirm that we are not arrogant, that we are not arrogant, that we want to accept everything that is smart and too much and everything that comes even from opposition parties. We're not a party that's going to reject everything that's proposed, whether it's smart or not. One such proposal is also the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Given that the public of Serbia may not yet be familiar with the proposal, he has only one member, and it refers to the amendment of Article 327(2). The Code of Criminal Procedure. It says here that a convicted co-worker cannot be offered a person convicted as an organizer of an organized criminal group, or a person who has been sentenced to 40 years in prison. I don't think any explanation is necessary. It is only enough to read this article and that the complete, both professional and lay public in Serbia fully agree that such an amendment and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure must be made in the voting day to vote and to bring to perfection a situation where people who are organisers of organised criminal groups or people who have been sentenced to a maximum sentence of 40 years, and thus have been convicted because they have committed a series of serious crimes cannot be co-workers and can not now find their alibi and the possibility of getting out by reducing their sentence because they have become co-workers. So, after this, it won't be, so I fully agree with it as a professional. The second law on the agenda today is the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts. In fact, it is one law that was passed in 1991 and which we are now practically bringing into a more summary form, with one addition, and this supplement concerns the introduction of an electronic publication in the "Official Messenger", namely the processing of all laws and everything that contains this and other laws. So it's about the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. It makes it mandatory to publish the following acts of the National Assembly, therefore, all that we adopt here, international agreements, I would say that these are international agreements, but I hope that during the debate in particular and with amendments on this to make amendments, i.e. the use of this text, because I do not think that international agreements are a constitutional category, but we have provided for them as international contracts, i.e. constitutionalists, acts, acts of the President of the Republic, acts of the Government, acts of ministries and special organisations, acts of the Constitutional Court, acts of the High Council of the judiciary, acts of the State Council of Prosecutors, acts of the Court of Justice, acts of the courts and public prosecutors, acts of other republics, acts of the NBS acts, then, judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, decisions of the UN bodies for the protection of Human Rights, rules by the holders of public powers and other acts for which are laid down by the law, and the laws, and the corrections of the laws, the laws, and the corrections of the laws, which are cleared and the laws, of the laws, and the laws of the laws, of the laws, and the laws, of the laws, and the laws, of the laws, and the laws, and the laws, and the laws, of the laws, and the laws, of the laws, of the laws, which are made. I read this on purpose for the public and for the general public, i.e. all the people who listen and watch, to be aware of what is mandatory in this "Official Messenger". Of the acts of the National Assembly, the Constitution, constitutional amendments, constitutional laws, laws and other regulations and general acts of the National Assembly are published. Also in Article 4. International contracts. Therefore, the "Official Messenger" publishes certified international contracts, contracts that have been confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Then, acts by the President of the Republic. It is about the apparitions, the declaration of the law and the apparitions of the award of distinctions. Article 6 provides that government acts which, of course, may be regulations and other general acts adopted by the Government shall also be published. The acts of the Constitutional Court shall be the forms of decisions and other acts of the Constitutional Court in accordance with specific law. Very important and no less important than the previous ones are acts of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council of Prosecutors, courts and public prosecutors. This is very important for the professional public. It is very important for the correction of the situation in the judiciary that we know it is, what may not be entered, but I expect that very nearly the Minister, Mr Selakovic, comes out with a whole set of laws, starts with a network of courts, the arrangements of judges, the law on judges, so that we can make this very painful matter for the entire public of Serbia and Serbian citizens the best possible way and that justice reform goes its course, in order to meet the many conditions of the Agenda that the EU has set for us, that is to say, we ourselves are willing to live as best as possible and to function as best as possible. The acts of the National Bank of Serbia are also being published. These are general acts and other acts published by the National Bank, judgments by the European Court of Human Rights and decisions of the United Nations contractual bodies for the protection of human rights. These are very important acts, given that it is now the most modern in Serbia – I will go to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, I will ask if there is no justice in Serbia to achieve it before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. This in some way creates one image and helplessness at the same time many people in Serbia because of the impunity of the Serbian judiciary, because of many things that have led to negative tendencies, and therefore it is very important in the "Official Messenger", to publish everything that has been passed as a verdict of the European Court of Human Rights, and of course refers to the matter that weighs our citizens and thus creates the possibility that everyone, even the layman who does not have any points of contact with the right, or has completed the law school, can get acquainted with the verdict and thus recognises his problem which can be solved by applying this general act to him even though he did not take part in it, nor has he been able to file the whole process from filing the application to the document, handing out documentation to that court. If something like this gets published in "The Official Messenger" it'll be very helpful to him. Furthermore, there are certain acts, i.e. what certain organisations, bodies and services bring, which are exempt from payment of fees in the Official Messenger. It's all that's mandatory for publication, and it's been released from payment of compensation. You also have acts whose publication in "The Official Messenger" is not mandatory. These are organ acts, legal and natural persons whose publication in the "Official Messenger" is not mandatory and can be made public with the compensation of being published in the "Official Messenger". That's the practice it's been up to now. Any ad, a public offer could be published in the "Official Messenger" with a certain fee set out in the procedure by certain persons. In the "Official Messenger", public competitions, advertisements, public calls and other notifications by authorities and legal and physical persons can also be announced. There's also a division of the official messenger, so we have basic editions and special ones. The main issue is what is "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and special editions are "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Contracts" and "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – the Enlightenment Messenger". This is where these official messengers are discussed, and I think that unlike the mentioned Article 4, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Contracts" stands here, which I think is exactly right and done as agreed with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The "Official Messenger – International Contracts" shall be published when international agreements and other international agreements are confirmed, and the "Production Messenger" shall publish republican regulations governing the educational plans and programmes of education, space, equipment and teaching, traineeship programme, training and training programmes of teachers and co-workers in primary and secondary schools, as well as other acts specified by special law to be published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". What's most important and what's new is that Article 26 prescribes both the electronic and printed form of "The Official Messenger". Basic and special editions of "Official Messenger" shall be issued in printed form and in electronic format PDF and HTML format. The printed form of "Official Messenger" and the electronic form of "Official Messenger" in PDF format are official editions. They come out in the same day and the date marked in electronic and printed form is the date of issue. The second part of this law is the legal and information system of the RS. The legal-information system of the RS is established and this legal-information system, which is currently a newspaper, is an electronic database containing the electronic form of the "Official Messenger", the archive of the "Official Messenger", the database containing the register and texts of applicable regulations and other acts of the RS published in the "Official Messenger", the database containing judicial practice and other data on the RS legal system and the link to EU legal acts. We will have a legal and information system of the RS that is set up by this law where in electronic form everything that is very important and what is practice and in RS will be read. Access to the legal and information system and database containing the register and texts of applicable regulations and other acts of the RS published in the "Official Messenger" to all Internet users are free of charge, unofficially consolidated texts of the regulations, original official journals in PDF format, in which the texts of the regulations of official texts have been published, in which their amendments and additions have been published. For access to other data contained in the legal and information system, compensation shall be paid, the height of which shall be determined by the act of the public undertaking to which the consent is granted by the Government. Of course it is necessary to finance and pay for reading, or the possibility of multiplying these acts, because there are absolutely fewer people who are now overpaid to the "Official Messenger" and "Official Messenger", as well as any other public enterprise must survive. There, the bill promoter, the resolution ministry, recognized that the financial injection must also be given to the public enterprise and provided that, in the next period of the budget, through certain items in a certain amount, it must be helped by the public undertaking so that it could function completely normally because it is impossible to publish all these acts in the daily, weekly or other press. Therefore, the official messenger is beyond the need of all of us. Also, there are special ways of publishing. It is also an indication of other acts by the President of the Republic, regulations and other acts of the government and defence ministers related to the Serbian Army and published in the "Official Military List". It also underlines that there is a "Official Military List" in which certain special acts are published. The government is obliged to lay down rules for the legal and information system within six months of the entry into force of this law on the establishment and management of a legal-information system, which will absolutely ensure that the Government, or the Resord Ministry, will do in time and allow it to also operate this legal-information system. This law shall enter into force on 1 June 2013. I hope that, since all the parliamentary groups have declared that they will vote for this law, by 23 May we will be able to pass this law and that it will enter into force on 1 June. So, as I said at the outset, the SNS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15804	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15805	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Director, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator and my colleagues have spoken very closely in the debates so far about the two draft laws that are before us today. I don't want to repeat the details, I'm just going to point out a few things that I think even if I repeat them, they're not too bad to remember well and reach out to our citizens. As regards the reasons for the adoption of the law, i.e. the examination of the Law on the publication of laws and other laws and acts and of the adoption of this law, in the light of the law which regulates this matter and which is now in force in 1991, that since then it has been amended and the state in which we live, that the Republic of Serbia has taken over this law as a legal follower of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro, that since then the Constitution has been amended, the law has been partially harmonised, that much of it has changed the entire legal system, that the changed technologies in communication, then it really creates the necessity to adopt in this area a new law that will also, in a new and modern way, regulate this area. It is truly justifiable that this law is now in front of us and that we are considering it. In an explanation, it shall be referred to Article 51. A constitution that regulates the right to notification. I would say that each of us not only has the right to be informed of the rules, but also has the obligation to know the regulations and laws and sublaws, because we know that the lack of knowledge of the right does not exempt us from liability, so we are really obliged to ensure that citizens can be informed and made available to them in the most favourable and economical way and laws and other sublaws. With this bill, which we are already entering into and into its contents, the good part of all this is achieved and that we can evaluate the text of this law as quite good. There'll be an intervention with the amendments. If the amendments announced are adopted, there will likely be an improvement in this text. As far as legal proceedings are concerned, it is necessary to work to make the whole process of the law as transparent as possible, as public as possible, to include as many entities as possible in the law-making process, in order to influence their opinions, experiences and knowledge as possible to obtain the more high-quality final text of the bill to be found in the Assembly. The law-publishing process itself is the final stage in the process of passing a law and is related to its entry into force. On the other hand, the entry into force of the law is in accordance with Article 196. The constitution concerning the publication of the law, and under that article, is scheduled to enter into force at the earliest eight days of the day of publication in the Official Messenger. Exceptionally, if there are reasonable reasons for the entry into force earlier, within a short period of eight days, then the lawmaker, or this National Assembly, has to make a special statement. I think that this procedure also points to the importance of publishing and binding entry into force for the very act of publication of the law and is therefore necessary, in order for the law to come into force and apply itself, to be quality-published and accessible to all entities who need to apply it, so that they can get acquainted with it. What's important in this bill is that the newspaper is scheduled. The basic newspaper is that it also predicts electronic publication. That's a lot to talk about, and I won't be too long. I think today, when young people from primary school are trained to use a computer, when all serious institutions are working through these information technologies, and the availability of an official messenger via the Internet and using these new technologies is very important. I was particularly pleased to see that the number of acts to be published in the Official Messenger was expanded, and I find it particularly interesting that the European Court of Justice rulings, the European Court of Human Rights, will be published, because we know that the last few years have significantly increased the number of proceedings that our citizens have brought before that court, dissatisfied with the work of domestic courts in the period prior to the start of judicial reform. In addition, it is also important to make public the decisions of the UN contractual bodies for the protection of human rights, as insight into such decisions can draw conclusions on what international legal practice is and what our citizens and entities must address in these instances. Article 28 regulates a legal and information system that will function as an electronic database and lists what it will all contain. Among other things, it is said - the archives of official messengers. Have I missed or not been recorded - how far back will this archive reach? To what period can we count on being able to find official messengers in electronic form? I think it's a piece of information that you could tell us and that could be of use to us. What is also important for application is what will be found and the consolidated texts of the law. It is that it will not be an official form, but it will make it possible to apply significantly. Because we all know how intense legislative activity has been with us for the last few years, how many new regulations have been passed. Citizens, as well as business entities and all entities involved in legal life, are sometimes hard to cope with in a number of changes and additions. He can't afford a citizen to buy an electronic law collection. There are companies that deal with this and anyone who professionally deals with it can buy a set of regulations in which they will always find a consolidated text, but not every citizen can afford it, so I think it's very important to get along and apply the law that's going to find this. I hope that the conditions to be met will be met and the Assembly will pass, so that the law can be applied as of 1 June, as foreseen. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure, I can only say that the law was passed in 2011 and has suffered two amendments since then, but life is always more inventive than the rules and in the course of application we really encounter new problems and new views on certain things. Such an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is proposed that a person sentenced to 40 years in prison cannot be appointed an associate, should indeed be accepted, because in these cases, the perpetrator of crimes who commit serious crimes, and we talked about it almost when we passed the law on criminal acts against semi-freedom, minors and even some laws, against the perpetrators who are convicted of these most severe prison sentences, should indeed be much more stringent and should be more consistent in application. This, conditionally speaking, is the fact that the provision of conditions, i.e. bringing to the right extent, that such a person cannot be given the status of an associate, I think that it will influence the future to think a little bit more carefully and to analyse a little bit more closely and when the laws on amnesty are passed and when other regulations have been passed, because we must no longer allow the perpetrators of serious crimes or returnees to find themselves at large before the prison sentence expires and the achievement of the goal that should be achieved by them and then be re-reciprocated and that we have problems with the same persons again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15806	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15807	Thank you. A few things just and the clarifications you asked for, as far as the discussion of the entry into force and the beginning of application is concerned. What I just said to Mr. Mikovic, I'm sorry he's not here and Mr. Cvian is not here, there's the Assembly on the move. If you look at, for example, your methodological rules for making regulations, which are published in the Official Messenger on 30 March 2010, for example, Article 63. The methodological rules of the National Assembly have this duality. It says – this act takes effect on the eighth day since its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, and has been implemented since 1 July 2010. In Article 17. Methodological rules, the National Assembly legalized this duality. For example, Article 17(2) says – if it is necessary to separate the start of validity and the start of application of a new regulation, i.e. the application of certain provisions thereof, the existence of a time interval between the date of entry into force of the regulations and the start of its application, or the application of certain provisions thereof, should be formulated in the following way – this regulation shall enter into force on the day from the date of publication in the Official Messenger, and shall be applied since that year. So I agree that this needs to be changed, but that practice exists for a long time, at least I've known since 1982. As far as the archives of official texts are concerned, the deliberately used term "formals", as the regulations in force today in the Republic of Serbia have been published in two official texts. These are the "Official Messenger" of the former Socialist Republic of Serbia, today the Republic of Serbia, where, at a time when we were a federal unit within a wider state, there were republican regulations, and there was a "Official List" once the SFRY, later the SRJ, etc. Today, there are still some very important laws on our legal traffic that have been published in the SFRJ Official List, e.g. The Law on Liabilities of 1978 or the Law on the Fundamentals of Leaven and Legal Relations of 1980. As far as the archives are concerned, she'll be gone by 1945. Why? First, in 1945, AVNOJ's Third Session was held in Belgrade and a decision was taken to stop continuity with the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's regulations. The decision was drafted in 1946 by one law, called the Law on the irrelevibility of the regulations made before 6 April 1941 and during the enemy occupation. This law, which was passed in 1946, was passed by the then-Federal National Republic of Yugoslavia Assembly, stipulating that all the regulations of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia applicable on 6 April 1941 would lose legal power, and the rules adopted by the occupier and his assistants would be considered non-existent, as if they had never been passed. The possibility for courts to apply the legal rules laid down in these rules that are still being applied today, for example. in the matter of the gift contract, since it has not been regulated yet, but formally and legally these regulations no longer apply. Our legal continuity somewhere and it's started since 1945. All over it, unfortunately, is history. The archive will begin from 1941 and it will also contain regulations that apply, but also those that no longer apply, which have been abolished by the adoption of a later regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15808	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15809	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr Djurdjevic, it seems to me that all MPs who spoke before me, whether from the ruling majority or opposition, have agreed that it is absolutely necessary to pass a new law that will regulate this area, because, as you said at the beginning, it is over 23 years old, so that it is really necessary to modernise it or modernise it or simply take a moment. In these 20 and a few years, much has changed, above all in the way communication and the development of different information technologies, as well as in many other regulations that have been prescribed for various organisations, institutions, etc. some obligations to be published in the official vote of the Republic of Serbia. A lot has been said about the newspaper that contains this bill, so I'm going to try not to repeat it, but I'm going to point out some objections to those new members, the paper in the law. Although we're already in practice applying, the Official Messenger has an electronic database, citizens know it but they can't access it, they have to have a code, they have to be registered, which means they have to be subscribed to that database. This isn't something that's just gonna happen, or that change and the papers are about to come in. It already exists, but now, as far as I can see, it will be regulated by law. In particular, Article 26, which speaks of the electronic and printed form of the "Official Messenger", both of these formats are of importance and importance, i.e. those editions, are equal. You will see it through the amendments we have submitted. What you resent is that when you talk about establishing an electronic edition, you have left out to say that this electronic edition must be signed by electronic signature. I remind all of us that since 2004, we have an e-signature law. The law did come into force, but it took a long time to start applying, simply because it was technically quite complicated, but I already know that for example. PTT Serbia registered the certification body and provided all the conditions for having an electronic signature. If we are already talking about how both of these editions of the "Official Messenger" format and in printed edition and electronic format are equal, then I don't see how you failed to guarantee the authenticity of that electronic edition and the existence of an electronic signature. So if the Government and if we do not provide for such significant laws to use an electronic signature, then I really don't see how we're going to popularize and achieve that in this kind of communication an electronic signature is actually one protection and security that this electronic edition is authentic. It has already been said about it, and in my opinion it is unacceptable to ask the user, whoever it is, whether it is every physical and legal person, and physically above all, that any compensation or subscription must be paid for it. You'll see when you look at the amendments, the amendment to article 26. It is now proposing these changes. When it comes to the legal and information system of the Republic of Serbia, someone said that some other websites or websites, associations of lawyers, NGOs, etc. I've been through this before. However, it is good that it will also be an official legal-information base or a system of the Republic of Serbia. Also, its authenticity will be guaranteed by the public firm "The Official Messenger". What's not good again is Article 29 where you're talking about access to the legal-information system. In point 1, you say in one place that internet users will be available, without compensation, certain acts. I don't think they're even listed here which, or partly, are - the consolidated texts of the regulations, the original official journals in PDF format, etc. Then, in point 2, you say again – for access to other data, which contains a legal-information system, where you did not specify as a proposer of the acts, a fee is paid whose height is determined by a public undertaking act. So on their proposal, and the consent to that fee will again be given by the government. And here you have an amendment where we suggest that the erasure of this item 2, that and access to that legal-information system be free of charge, that is, not to pay compensation. Then, by amendment, I proposed a new position 2 at the beginning after those opening provisions. In fact, the opening provision is one member, who speaks something at all, and then I suggested a new member who speaks the language afterwards. Speaking of which, it should be quality or quality information, information and availability to the official messenger, then I don't think you should have missed a member who will speak the language, so I'll read it. Article 1 – laws and other regulations, as well as other acts, are published in Serbian, Cyrillic. Article 2 - international contracts and other international acts, as well as European Court of Human Rights rulings, are also published in one of the world languages in which they are concluded, or adopted. Since there is a special issue where international contracts are, I don't think this should complicate the issue of this special edition. Believe me, it is very important for anyone interested to be available and the original text, or text in one of the world languages in which this contract was brought. I'll remind you that in the last few years, there have been very often problems in the different interpretations of some terms, and mostly there have been words about English words or terms, so that in the end this misunderstanding would be misleading under the fact that we had a bad translation. So as soon as something was not done well, then it is said – this translator and this translator did not translate well, we are right, and then others say – we are right. Let's say, I remembered the translation of one very important thing when the Agreement with Eulex was signed, where you had one of those English words interpreting it as just some kind of administrative border, and that it really meant the border to others, and that's the right limit. I therefore need these international agreements to be in that language as well. Whoever doubts the translation will have the original, and will deal with it. Item 3, and it is also a language -- regulations and other acts adopted by the local self-government authority, besides the Serbian language, are also published in the language of the national minority, in accordance with the law on the use of the language of the national minority. I know it's a newspaper, and now there's no newspaper in the official messenger. I have sought out some official messengers, and I know that according to the statutes of some local self-government, they have an obligation to publish in the "Official Messenger" their own decisions, so I believe that there would be more complete information for citizens in those local self-governments where the Serbian language is less spoken, and where there is also a legal use and obligation to use the language of the national minority. As far as the public enterprise is concerned, otherwise, we call in the jargon the law on the public enterprise "the official messenger", although it is wider, you will see through the amendments, you have not listed here any activity of the public enterprise, although in some laws in the region you have detailed what is the activity of the public enterprise. You'll see it in the amendment, and we'll talk about it when there's a debate in particular. The way you suggest appointing and composing that supervision of the board of public enterprises, because we no longer have boards of directors, but we have a board of directors, there is one member, or one position that is very strange. I'll read it. He says – members of the board of directors of the public enterprise, appointed from the order of officials or civil servants in office, are obliged to perform, in addition to their function, members of the Board of Public Undertaking's supervision. This is something that's meant to be. If a government official is assigned to do some work, let's say an assistant in a ministry, be a member and a supervisory board, so it's not like we have to remind him through this law that he has to perform that function. So, at least this is weird, so I don't use another word. You've been talking here and about the public enterprise itself. You said that we don't wonder how this public company works at all, if all those who have an obligation to publish in the Republic official vote have no obligation to pay any compensation. I don't really know if any of the public enterprises have been allocated from the budget before, for these tasks and for the work that needs to be done. You're spinning your head, which means it's not, but it's meant to be now. This public enterprise at least is something that requires a re-examination of business. In the last few months, there's been a media debate over the state of the public company "The Official Messenger". I have no reason to believe any of the actors of that story or bringing out dirty laundry from the house or what it has to be, because in a public company, there shouldn't be dirty laundry on me, so it's called public, and dirty laundry is something you hide. So I have no reason to believe or not to trust the former director or current acting director. But what was heard at those press conferences, where they attacked each other, is at least worrying. In fact, the current executive says that very bad and non-domestic business was done in the public enterprise, that the institution entered in 2013 with a loss of 325 million dinars and that, I quote, the "Official Messenger" became a factory for the production of books that are not sold. Further charges - inadequate systematization of jobs with imaginary directorial and advisory posts. When the public company "The Official Messenger" started working in 1992, it was 50 employees, and today 412 employees and 67 contract employees work in the public company. Within the framework of publishing work that should be a secondary activity, there are as many as 27 editors and executive directors. One word, I apologize only to finish, it's obvious that there's something wrong and there's some kind of homeless and bad business here, so I guess it's your job to review it and to see that we wouldn't worry about how this public enterprise is going to publish an act that's bound to publish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15810	Thank you. The word is Dejan Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15811	Thank you. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'd like to make a statement about several of your critical remarks. As for the electronic signature, it's a public collection that's being published on the official messenger website, and I don't see the need for everything published on the official messenger's website to have an electronic signature. Even that argument that the electronic edition is likened to the printed edition of "The Official Messenger". Did one printed edition of the "Official Messenger" show the handwritten signature of the President of the Assembly, the President of the State, the Prime Minister and anyone? It just writes its name and last name, behind the last name of the Sr., nowhere in any printed edition of the "Official Messenger" you don't have your own signature. Why would the official messenger's web site have an electronic signature for someone who sent an act to be published? Furthermore, this will not be the first electronic database, the first electronic register in Serbia. We have, for example, an Agency for Business Registers a long time ago. She has a database on her website, so you have no electronic signature on the site. You know, e-signature makes sense when it comes to an internal document that you send for example: a lawsuit, a complaint, or a submission, or you send someone to an e-mail to guarantee the authenticity of the content that is above the electronic signature. When it comes to a public register available to citizens by being published on the website of an entity authorised to run a public register, there is no need for an electronic signature. As regards language and letters, the use of language and letters is subject to regulation of specific laws, it is the Law in the official use of language and letter, and when it comes to international contracts and other international agreements, it is the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts that was reached this year. These regulations regulate official use of language and letter. There is no need for the law that regulates the publication of these regulations in the Republic's "officer" to be republished now, and in particular it would be tragic if it were done in a different way, to regulate how the law would be published. We cannot by this law enter into questions of official use of language and letters, acts brought by units of local self-government. This law regulates the publication of acts adopted at the republican level of government. The Constitution in Article 196 explicitly said that autonomous provinces themselves are ageing and regulating the publication of their acts, that units of local self-government are ageing themselves and edit the publication of their acts. Whether a local self-government unit will establish its official list, official messenger or any other message, or publish its acts in the Official Messenger, it is her autonomous right to arrange it. If a local self-government unit decides to publish its acts in the Official Messenger, it already does so on the basis of a contractual relationship with the Official Messenger, and then the Official Messenger publishes it the way it is delivered to him by someone who cares about the publication of the rules. Each municipality regulates the official use of language and letter by its statute and does not need to be subject to regulation of this law. As far as this Article is concerned, 28th and 29th, it is now a matter of one measure, we would all like the entire legal information system to be available to all users and court practice and links to European regulations, etc. It's just a question of whether at this point it's real. People who deal with finance say it's not real right now. So one part of that legal information system would have to be financed by subscribers that would use that legal information system. If they are not satisfied with what they are offered free of charge, if they want to use any more information, there should be a subscription, as there is today a subscription to the written edition of "The Official Messenger". As far as funding is concerned, he's not funding from the budget today, right now. So, he's funding from his economic activity and he's financed from the subscription, he's funding from the ads that I publish, and by these means he's funding the publication of the acts that we're sending. However, the changes that occurred especially after the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, which to relieve the economy, reduced the obligation to advertise public procurement in the "officer" by about 90%. They make such an account economically unsustainable and therefore it is necessary for this company to be financed from the budget, in that section concerning the publication of acts and the management of the legal information system.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15812	Thank you. Donka Banovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15813	Now I have to answer you, but I won't be long. If I said that the electronic format of the "Official Messenger" is likened in print, then I was wrong because it has to be the original, and it's exactly the same as the different formats. Am I right? One is printed and the other is not printed. However, I believe that a person who is at the head of a public enterprise who, by his signature, by electronic signature and by the existence of that electronic signature, can guarantee that it is a valid document, i.e. by means of an electronic signature and the existence of that electronic signature, can guarantee that it is the valid document, i.e. the electronic "Official Messenger". I didn't think so, although it should already come into practice that now everyone in each body delivers it, but simply that whoever is at the head of the organisation or the public undertaking that guarantees it, who will also guarantee it by electronic signature. I don't think you're right about the language issue either. I cited one example of when, and it was only one, so in the last two years I've heard different interpretations of one and the same term that is mainly translated from English where the translator is ultimately guilty because he didn't translate it right. Believe me, I'm getting pressures because translators and people who are seriously involved in translation are being blamed for some political collapses there. Again, I remind you of some agreements, let's say, it was then, and I think Dacic was the Minister of the Ministry of Interior who signed different contracts where the word from the English word meaning the border was interpreted differently. It was when we were convinced that it was just some administrative line, etc., even though it really meant border in the original.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15814	Thank you. The word is Dejan Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15815	We need to take care of the system, so the question of language. When it comes to internal acts, they are regulated by a special law and we cannot now, by the law on the publication of regulations, re-standardise the language issue in which the regulations are published. The same goes for international contracts. As far as this electronic signature is concerned, as far as I can tell, you have a written edition of the official messenger in your hand, I'm not sure if it's original or photocopy, but can you please show me who guarantees that your written edition is authentic? Is there a handwritten signature of the director and stamp on your written edition? It doesn't exist. What makes you think that not every act that would hang on the official messenger website should be an electronic signature of the official messenger? Be careful, when it comes to publishing the database on the Register website, it means a certain level of protection, and also if you follow the law closely you will see that on the official messenger website you will have two electronic formats. One format as well as on the National Assembly website, one format is html or should I simply say published in a word that you can copy, copy to another document, install into some act of yours. That format will not be official. Another format is a PDF format that will be official, but that cannot be changed in electronic form. To simplify the matter, when you go to the official messenger's site and look at what's official, you'll see photos of that written edition, as if this photo was also posted, just as it looks in writing, it'll look on the site. The same way of the press, all the same, a retail photo of the written edition of the "Official Messenger", which cannot be changed in electronic form, and therefore it is official and this HTML, which can be changed electronically, will not be official.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15816	The word is Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15817	I assume you want to confuse me and the citizens. I didn't say that every single act to be delivered on the publication of the Official Messenger, that he should have, although we have these signatures. I'm talking, because the official messenger and this one, and the one that's special editions, is a booklet and here at the end, and if there's a public firm, if there's someone at the head of a public company, if he's the founder of that public enterprise, I guess he can guarantee it. Whoever guarantees, then guarantees the government, because she transferred her jurisdiction to a public firm, but we'll have about this time, when it's in particular, so there's no need to spread the subject now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15818	The People's Messenger Paul Markov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15819	The President-in-Office, Mr Djurdjevic, the MPs, is before us the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts which found its basis in the need of any broader right to inform the more modern way of publication, laws and other rules, and all in order to make the citizens of Serbia better informed, over which laws and other regulations apply. Since 1991, when the basic text of the law was adopted, there has been a series of adoptions of various rules relating to the legal position of the authorities, organisations, public services, institutions, legal entities, which are all conditioned to regulate the effectiveness of the publication of laws in one system, with the basic principles of economics, efficiency, thus reducing or abolishing the costs of users, will improve the availability of laws and sublaws to all bodies, legal and physical persons. As a basic newspaper of this law, it is intended for the electronic form of the Republic's official message, the establishment of a legal-information system of the Republic of Serbia, which, according to the envisaged solutions, would represent a collection of legal-relevant data in electronic form, the use of a database of acts, data and information from that system. Electronic editions of official texts, together with the printed edition, have been identified as official editions in the largest number of countries, which, by this law, sets out in this group of developed countries, i.e. in 27 EU member states, there are electronic editions, and of which, in 25 countries, access to the online issue of official messengers is free of charge for all users, except Romania, Lithuania, and 24 countries have printed editions. The introduction of the law, a constitutional solution is being developed and it is determined that "the official messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, a republican official note, which, according to the constitutional obligation, publishes the Constitution, the laws, the sublaws of the republican authorities and organisations, have public powers, which carry out tasks under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. Chapter II of this Law regulates the issues of mandatory publication of acts in the "Official Messenger" and the type of issue. Chapter III lays down questions concerning the manner of publication of laws and other regulations and acts, i.e. which determines the text of an act published with the dynamics of publication, as well as the issue of the Republic Secretariat for Law. Chapter IV of this law addresses issues relating to the way in which the creation and publication of the "officer" and its forms, while the legal and information system of the Republic of Serbia was introduced to Chapter V, which would, according to the envisaged solutions, represent a database of data in electronic form with a register of regulations and other acts published in the "Official Messenger". Finally, Chapter VII lays down specific means of publication, bringing together the system and the constitutional obligation to publish laws and other regulations. It should be noted that for the needs of the legal and information system in the budget, the minimum amount of resources needed for the smooth performance of the work, the publication of the "Official Messenger", while enabling free access to the applicable regulations will lead to a fall in revenue based on a subscription to the printed and electronic editions of the "Official Messenger", which is why it is necessary to provide funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, in order to justify the implementation of the law. Decisions under this law will have a positive impact on the work of state authorities, economic operators and citizens by creating conditions for the use of the electronic version, the vote will reduce the costs and its acquisitions and distributions mentioned by the entities now bear, and create conditions for faster availability of the republican official note, and thus improve the overall efficiency of the society by all interested entities, better quality of the work of state bodies, businesses. Also, the solutions under this law will have a positive impact on ensuring the activity of a public enterprise issued by the "Official Messenger". Control of implementation of solutions and laws will be ensured through the work and operation of the Supervisory Board of Public Enterprises and the exercise of control by the founder of a public undertaking. All of these reasons are that we more than positively assess one such inconspicuous but useful bill, and in the largest number we support it, which the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15820	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15821	The Honorable Chairman, I am sorry that Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic is not in the O.R. because first I had one appeal for him, to ask that these laws to which we constantly submit amendments, my colleagues and I, as regards spelling errors, should be written more neatly, and I will be talking about both points of the agenda. First I will talk about the law on amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure and in this context, I have a sincere regret that there is no Justice Minister, Mr Selakovic. I understand that he has an obligation to address right-wing organisations and possibly organisers around this June 28th rally because of the KIM policy, he will likely participate, since they are fond of organisations, but I would prefer him to participate in parliament's work. Why do I say that? When it comes to amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, I have all the credit for this proposal from my colleagues from the SPI and DHSS, because it is good and good because we know what has been happening in this country and who are all persons who have been sentenced to 40 years in prison. Two of them are Milorad Lukovic, one of the organisers of the assassination of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and the president of the Republic, though, of former President Ivan Stambolic. Since the people who are sitting in power now were the authorities when some of the most terrible crimes were committed, they were committed during their term, when they were called differently, and the same people in this room had their political representatives as MPs. A national MP named Tomislav Nikolic, and now the president of the Republic, said – When I come to power, I will review the verdict on the murder of Milorad Lukovic of the Legion. This terrible sentence must not be forgotten, and because of this terrible sentence, it is good that we have such a law that prevents such individuals from usurping power, reviewing judgments, and giving the status of a protected witness and exploiting their political influence, that these people get the status of a protected witness. In that context, I'm sorry there's no Justice Minister in the O.R., I understand his love for extreme organizations, he was probably prevented from planning the June 28th rally. I will now rely on the law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts and to say that this law is very important, that we will support it, but Article 5 of this law says that the obligation in the "Official Messenger" is to publish an indication of the declaration of the law, when it comes to the acts of the President of the Republic and the decrees of the award of distinction, but I am very sorry that in the "Official Messenger" proposed by this law it will not be published and acts of pardon, because Tomislav Nikolic pardoned Dr Gojko Inic, convicted by the judicial verdict of the Kruševac Court for corruption. It showed him how to fight corruption. At the same time, I think it would be okay for the Official Messenger to have names and other pardoned persons, who may possibly be able to receive an act of pardon by the President of the Republic and there is no need for you to hide these people. The public will find out it happened anyway. He has the right to know who is amnesty, who is pardoned and whether these amnests are beating up LDP party leaders and other opposition parties or using them to take them on buses to Kosovo Mitrovica to scare people who have a different attitude when it comes to your KIM policy. That's why it's good for their names to be published in the official messenger, to know who your support is in times of crisis and crisis, name and last name. That is why I am saying, we will support this law with the expectation that the committee responsible should propose that an amendment be added to Article 5, the amendment is written, and that it is said that "the official messenger" publishes the apparitions, the apparitions of the award, but also the appropriations of the pardon act. It's good to know who gets the medal. I don't think the Order just hasn't received a mentor's commission where Tomislav Nikolic was doing his degree's work, everyone else has been decorated. I say, it's good to know the names and last names of people who have been pardoned, because these people who amnesty and have been pardoned, very often reparticipate in criminal acts, and most often when it comes to opposition leaders. I will remind you that in Segedin, the leader of one opposition party, Cedomir Jovanovic, was physically attacked and defeated with three others, with a wife who is the mother of four children and two other people who have been brutally beaten. So, it's good, Mr. Djurdjevic, that you're back in the O.R. I have to say, I'm glad you're sitting here when it comes to this law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts, but I am undermining that Minister Selakovic is not with us, I said that, and since you were not in the O.R., I will repeat. Very often we have laws that are grammatically misspelled in the congregation procedure. Ask people who work in your services, ask people from the government to, even if these laws are done in that form that Serbian grammar requires. Of course, this law will be supported, as it will improve the efficiency of the state administration, will give citizens of Serbia the opportunity to be informed in due time about all the laws that are being passed, about all the acts that are being passed. It is not complete because of this inadequacy, when it comes to Article 5 and the acts of the President of the Republic. We particularly appreciate the efforts to publish laws in electronic form and be available to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Try using other aspects of modern communication. It is not bad for Serbian citizens to have the opportunity to get to know the previous law, so it reads, as the current law reads. It is good that, of course, in accordance with your capabilities, you make sure that this law is applied particularly well, when it comes to European Court of Human Rights rulings in Strasbourg, because a large number of our citizens are forced to seek justice in front of international institutions for certain shortcomings. It is good to know why someone has won a dispute against the Republic of Serbia and that it is indeed published in the "Official Messenger" and in electronic form. It is particularly good to publish the rules passed by public authorities, because it is also a good step towards democratisation of our society. It is particularly good to bring in acts by the state council of prosecutors or courts of public prosecutors. Finally, I just have to point out that I absolutely share that opinion of yours when it comes to constitutional amendments. In 2000, we had constitutional amendments, and this law certainly is not an attempt to change the highest legal act of this country or to play the public, but on the other hand, I underline, both laws are a good step towards further democratisation of our society and a good indicator that when we do, then these efforts to establish a democratic control model of government are very successful and that these efforts and these troms, sometimes clumsy steps towards improving the overall environment in which we live, can only be successful when they want to. Unfortunately, I say, we live in a country where Parliament does not work regularly at the time of the regular session, we will probably work in July, but in June, August, you will probably have more activity of the "Official Messenger", because more laws will then wake up from the winter dream, and you will work better, better will the "Official Messenger" of those laws, which you will then, by necessity, and not by what you want to make progress, will probably be printed. So far we're working, I say, this inefficient, but these two laws are still good examples that whenever you want, you can work. Okay, we don't have to make you do that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15822	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15823	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15824	Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15825	Madam Chairman, I call on Article 106, paragraph 1 - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I warn you that the previous speaker has come out two, three times and talked about Tomislav Nikolic, it is not on the agenda. To warn us, he is not Tomislav Nikolic, but the president of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, he is the president of all citizens, regardless of whether we are in opposition or position, and this is done continuously at the last sessions. It is not good for us MPs to comment on the judgments of the courts. Let's leave it, because we're not a legislative body, let's leave it to the courts. Thank you. I'm sorry for the intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15826	Thank you. I completely agree with you, Mr. Atlagic. Indeed, I ask all the People's Messengers to speak of the agenda point. The word is Mr. Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15827	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 32. – Vice-President of the National Assembly helps the president of the National Assembly to do business from his work. It is said that you have the same powers as the president of the National Assembly, but you certainly do not have more authority. Therefore, you are required to meet the MP, if he has not already had time to meet himself, on the agenda, that the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts is on the agenda, where it is said in point 5, that, among other things, in the "officer" the acts of the President of the Republic are also published. Perhaps you mind that Tomislav Nikolic is the President of the Republic, perhaps you don't mind. I spoke of the image and the work of the messenger of the people, Tomislav Nikolic; for this man was also a messenger of the people. If these are not the same two people, I really apologize to you and your MP group and to Tomislav Nikolic, but I think it is the same man Tomislav Nikolic who spoke about the Legion and that it is the same man who is president of the Republic today. If not, to do a DNA analysis, let's see if these are the same people or some new Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15828	Thank you. So we understand that no injured member of 32, since everyone has the right to use their right to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 103, so I allowed Mr. Atlagic to do so. The word is Mr. Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15829	With regard to the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts, if I understand you correctly, Mr Milivojevic, your objection or suggestion was to provide for the publication and laws that no longer apply, which were previously in force. It's built into the law. Perhaps I didn't understand you correctly, so Article 28 states that the legal-information system available on the website of JP "The Official Messenger" contains an archive of official texts. So all the official texts that have been published since 1945 and beyond. So, and the law that has been abolished, which is no longer in force, which is defined by some newer law, anyone who has access to the legal-information system will be able to get acquainted with the text of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15830	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak first of all about the draft law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts and commend this law for the simple reason it will save us paper. Saving paper will also help to protect the environment. Less trees will suffer because, instead of the printed version, a large number of lawyers and citizens will use the electronic version. So, the newspaper in this law is that, in addition to the printed version, it is also electronic and that this electronic version is available on the Internet. This will help us, the Messengers of the people. So far, we have had the opportunity to get the proposals of the law in electronic form and that we can download it from the internet and when all of this is complemented by the amendments we never had the opportunity to compare in the same electronic form the laws that started with the bill, the version that was adopted, so the one that was published, we could never compare it, in particular we couldn't compare it in electronic form in order to review it more easily. That'll be available now. Let me also remind you of the fact that, not so long ago, one version of the law, and surely it wasn't us in power, was adopted in the Assembly, that the President of the Republic would come in second. I believe it could have happened to be published third. This law avoids such an option, as anyone can find a version that has been published on the Internet, and viewers can also monitor this transmission. They can also compare with the bill and we'll know exactly what was proposed, what was adopted, and in the fastest way, they'll allow us to determine what was published in the Official Messenger. On this side, any praise for the legislator of this law. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in criminal proceedings, it has already been said that the MP group to which I belong will support the law. I'd like this law, since it's very short, and in this electronic form there's one mistake, in the second attitude it says "for a convicted associate", and it should say "co-worker", so I'd like to make it right first. So this law is as short as it is, I think it could have been the subject of an amendment, because we've already had, I think, two or three amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. In the current social and economic circumstances, I am afraid we will need a lot of complementarity in the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, given the increase in crime, given the economic and social situation in which the citizens of our country live. I think that this law, as well as some future changes, should have been the subject of a fundamental amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, because this is repeated. Every two months, we change the Code of Criminal Procedure. So on the other hand, I think this could've gone through as an amendment to some former change or it could've gone through in some next change. The names of two persons who have already been convicted are also listed here in the explanation, for which I have no good words to say. Thus, the Law is almost personal and emphasizes two persons who are legally convicted. Let me say it one more time, I don't think of them as anything good, and I think it's a good idea for them to be the subject of this law. However, in this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Criminal Procedure, it also states that, apart from the strictest of 40 years in prison, this also applies to persons convicted as bearers, or organisers of a criminal group. We already have a problem here. We have an MP here who says we know what's going on. I'm not sure we know what was going on during the former regime, but I'm sure there's been a lot of political pressure on the court. Recently, in public as a subject of political pressure on the judiciary, the Brisa Taton case came out. So the verdict was brought under unprecedented political pressure not only by politicians, but also by political pressure and the prosecution itself. We have recently seen this in public, that judgment was not entirely beyond doubt, and since these groups, so-called. The mob, there's one hundred, which were manufactured during the rule of the former regime, I'm afraid we're going to deny the possibility of many leaders of these organized groups, and I'm not talking about those two people that made the bill promoter and proposed most likely this law, but we're going to be in a position to lead the so-called. criminal groups, which have become because of political pressure and have been convicted of it and who are not convicted beyond any doubt, but because of the influence of politicians, officials, and some people who have been employed in the prosecution, who cannot be called such saints and bearers of high judicial functions, independent institutions, or independent representatives of independent institutions. So, I believe you all know how many prosecutorial spokesmans have wronged some cases, an independent judiciary. So this judiciary, which was not reformed, but deformed, did not pass such judgments. I need to remind you of the verdict for the Putrian mafia. The leaders of the travel mafia were told in the following form, that the court regrets that there were no real perpetrators during the court proceedings, or that he punished peripheral perpetrators, who were called organised criminals, the road mob. It would be very interesting what they might say today after the change, those convicted of the crime of organisers in an organized criminal group. It would be very interesting what they could tell us about who their employers were and who were the real perpetrators of the crime in the matter of the travel mafia and the great malversion with large funds. So, not only does this law sanction these worst criminals up to 40 years, but it also sanctions various criminal groups that I want to underline that it is not exactly 100% established in these court proceedings that have been conducted under political pressure, that they are beyond any doubt the organisers of these criminal groups, and I am talking above all about the road and various mafias that have been delivered during the rule of the former regime of justice, so that there may not be those greatest perpetrators of criminal acts, or the greatest malfeasances with the highest amounts in this country. It would also be interesting to say what would happen in the case of, say, the Development Bank and the Capital Investment Fund if it were some criminal convicted group, what could these people say, who are the real inspirers and employers of an unprecedented robbery in this country? I will support this amendment of the law, although it does not, in my view, embrace the unique complexity of this problem, because there are really those perpetrators who cannot possibly be convicted associates, but there are also some groups that have been judged in very strange ways, which could help to shed light on these cases, and I have cited the travel mafia as an example, and I have cited an example of a convicted group which is now in public, but also sparrows know that it is condemned under political pressure. So, a group of so-called. "Briss Taton," a group that participated in the fight, where among the convicts came the second-placers, who were in the hands of the police, were convicted of being at the scene of the fight, of an unprecedented tragedy. I'm afraid for those groups that might tell us something, that this law didn't quite work it out. I think that someone who's a lawyer should have added the law to a criminal offense, which he would have called - the crime of excessive corruption, I recently said the excessive corruption of the people, because I'm afraid we haven't improved the Criminal Code in that segment enough. It must be far stricter, not only because of the former government, but also possible crimes that the current government can do, or some future government, in that sense we have to act and not get into a situation where we send little thieves to prison and in front of the big ones to take off our hats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15832	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15833	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of members 106th and 107th, and in some ways Mr Rističevic's exposure may be subdued under Article 104. I'm afraid he misread the amendment and supplementation proposal. 'It's not two faces mentioned, it's three faces. In addition, this law is partial, but in time everything is done in a partial way. Except why it was brought in this form and why only one was changed, since everything was misread. For this he should ask for an answer from the minister of justice, since we asked him, but the minister of justice is not present for some reason today, and at some other sessions, when it comes to aflatoxin is present. So, all these questions, Mr. Risticevic, I think it would rather be referred to, and that the more appropriate to answer them would be Minister Selakovic, since he said so himself - someone who is a lawyer should predict a crime. We have this lawyer, and he responds to Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice, so as an authorised promoter, let him do everything possible, and for starters, I will agree with many speakers that it is necessary to do what I have already stated here several times as an authorised promoter, which is that the Ministry of Justice finally does a whole new proposal of the CAP, and not as partial, unfortunately, that we as opposition MPs, change or supplement some of its provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15834	Thank you. Let me explain. I don't know what I've hurt Article 106, since it's clear to you that during your presentation you've replicated Mr. Risticevic, so this time I'm going to take away from your parliamentary group in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Mirko Chikiriz, as a representative of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15835	First of all, I think we should remove some dilemmas because of the public. I respect my colleague Rističević very much, but my colleague Risticevic is not a lawyer and this has been seen from his presentation to some extent, regardless of all the efforts he has made. In fact, every law should be in line with the spirit of time, with the needs of time, and with the needs of society. This is the representative of the Ministry of Justice and the Director of the Secretariat of Law knows best. Any society that does not, in a legislative sense, follow life comes into imbalances and pays for the consequences of the non-compliance of legislation with the needs of life. The law isn't personal, it concerns all faces. Our criminal law is such that the death penalty has been lifted, that there is no life sentence, and that the maximum sentence foreseen is 40 years in prison. That means that someone potentially can kill hundreds of thousands of people, he'll get a maximum sentence of 40 years in prison, and yet if we don't lift the existing provision, he can conclude with the prosecution a deal and be a convicted associate, which we don't think is the purpose and purpose, neither general nor individual prevention. Secondly, by adopting these changes, all potential perpetrators of criminal acts will be deterred by the general prevention of self-imposing of such crimes. Imagine if someone who committed numerous crimes in a particularly cruel and cruel way, thus showing great unscrupulousness, was freed as a convicted associate. That would mean a great motive for potential perpetrators of crimes that would have a simple calculation -- I'll do a lot of crimes, and then I'll offer to be a convicted associate and I'll be free. Therefore, this change does not concern any particular case. Unfortunately, to our recent past, we had a situation that at the bookies in the air hung a moment when they would be shot at the prime minister and unfortunately, that moment came. We've had a situation where political opponents are killed here, that the state has done it in some way, and this has to be a radically better break-up with our recent past and a reminder of all the potential future perpetrators of these crimes to refrain from committing these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15836	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15837	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll say I'm not a lawyer, fortunately. Noting I'm not a lawyer, I'll say I'm not a lawyer, fortunately. The lawyers have made this country very happy. I wasn't talking about the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. I said in that part, I support the law. But I did say that during the former regime there were political pressures and that some groups were designated as organised criminal groups and that these changes prevent us from saying, the leaders of the convicted road mob say who is the taskmaster of that whole toll malfeasance business. So, I told the court that they regretted the verdict that they hadn't found the right perpetrators, but they punished the peripheral culprits. They are convicted of organised crime and today the leader of the organized travel mafia can no longer be a convicted associate. Ten times undermining that I support this part of that that persons who have been sentenced to 40 years in prison, especially those two that I didn't sign by name and last name, but you in your argument. I'm totally against them being any kind of witness associates or convicted associates as you say. I didn't personally list the names and last names of some convicted persons, you did. That's what you can see here. I support your efforts that they can't be, but I also say that there have been political processes where some groups have been fabricated into various mafias where it would be very interesting to hear what they have to say. I was surprised that you found that I had something against the law, especially against this first act, and you even said - shooting at the prime minister. I never drink September wine under anyone's lap. I don't know where you saw it in my presentation. I know the views of a party at the time, which now claims something quite different. I know very well how much they criticized this very prime minister who was accidentally killed outside the government building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15838	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15839	The reasons state the case of "Braivik", a person our citizen, a crime has not happened in our country. It happened in another country, but nearly 100 people were killed. It has been reported that the case, as an example, had occurred in Serbia, the Brayvik mass murderer would have received only 40 years in prison under our Criminal Law, but could also reach an agreement with the prosecution and be a convicted co-worker. These are the anomalies that we wanted to correct with this member of the law. I think this is merely an example of why, because the law doesn't apply to Braywick, or to the other two persons mentioned, it refers to all potential perpetrators of criminal acts. It also refers to all those who are sentenced to a single 40-year prison sentence and in the general opinion of all parliamentary groups, such persons should not be witnesses of co-workers. They should get the fine they deserve, and that should be the best warning to all potential perpetrators of criminal acts. I don't want to be with something that's life, what's waist and what's the real politics. We were all critics at some point, maybe Zoran Djindjic, etc., but at the same time we didn't want Zoran Djindjic to happen to the fate that hit him. We don't want that to happen to any political opponent. We think that parliament is the place where we will solve political differences, not that murder is the way, unfortunately, in our recent past, solved political differences. For this reason, we think that Serbia will send a strong message to these changes that it is becoming a normal state in this segment of its social activity and that we will send a strong message to all those who think that political differences are solving someone by killing them, that they will also get the fine they deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15840	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Djurdjevic, I would not like to see this debate go at the end of some wrong course and in the wrong direction, but the truth works, and it also says here that the legislator is also for the representatives of the Government in the National Assembly, at least when the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts is in question, that Mr. Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration and Professor Dejan Djurdjevic, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. We have Dr. Dejan Djurdjevic present here. As far as the second law in this set is concerned, this is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure, the legislators are the SPO-DHSS Group, I really thank them for giving such a bill, but the presence of Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic was not really necessary today. I cannot allow any labelling of one of the most agile, if not the most agile minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at least according to those laws that came before us to parliament, at least in his presence when these laws were to be defended. I really can't accept any labelling of Mr Nikola Selakovic about negligence, neglect or anything else because it really doesn't stand. The Serbian Progressive Party, as my esteemed colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group said, will vote and support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, with another thanks to fellow Members for proposing such a law, because it fully agrees with SNS policy, zero tolerance to crime and corruption, zero tolerance to anything, and especially no trade, no communication, nor the state will be a talker for those who participated or organised themselves or in any other way involved in acts such as the deprivement of other persons' lives, whatever those persons in the past have called themselves, even though they have been convicted of the most severe sentences of prison, regardless of what the victims were called, regardless of what the executioners, whether the authorising officers or some perpetrators have called themselves. As for the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and general acts, you are right, Mr. Djurdjevic, that law was passed in 1991. It started in 1992. This 21-year-old flow requires a more modern approach, to implement the development of Internet and electronic databases in such a law. That is why I am grateful to you for giving such a modern, quality and correct law, which establishes the legal and information system of the Republic of Serbia, also from members of the 28th and beyond. What you also pointed out and what is good and what, I hope that on the competent committee of the Republic of Serbia they will get most of it, I am sure they will get most of it, which is the amendment to Article 29, which will provide that access to the base containing the case-law is free of charge for all courts, public prosecutors, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Academy. All of these are reasons, with the reasons that SNS MPs quoted, which is why SNS will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. What I personally don't like and what has personally burned my ears, it's more a matter of emotion than a profession, and I believe that this article is part of some law-writing algorithm, and that article reads, "Organization and method of publishing the "Official Messenger" during the wartime is governed by the Government. Don't, people, no more martial law or even predict it. I know it has to be predicted and that kind of situation, but as soon as that word is mentioned in our space, in our country, I think it's a pair of ears, with my understanding that it's part of a writing algorithm and part of a need and part of a person, don't God, predict. What is least talked about today, which I would like to say a word about, is the state of the public company "The Official Messenger", the state and what the new management has met, who is truly fortunate for one non-hot, hot potato that has been given to them, but I would also like for one principle, that we must make one handover for each thing, that it is known that the new management of the public enterprise "The official messenger", the ownership of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is running a race with great weights both on our hands and on our feet. I'm going to try one part of that data, for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the future, for the sake of future challenges, to interpret it this way. The official messenger began working in 1992 with 50 employees, and 250 employees are an optimal number for this size of work. At a press conference on October 2, 2012, the former director of the "Official Messenger" said the "Official Messenger" had 374 employees. The moment the new management entered the official messenger, we found 479 employees. In less than two months, more than 100 jobs. The Serbian Progressive Party is for employment. Serbia is crying out for work, we need work. The unemployment rate is 28% in Serbia, but who, how? I cannot accept that the systematization of new jobs was done on 16 November 2012 at the very least inadequate because it provided advisors, and special advisors, and cabinet directors. I've never heard that there's a cabinet director somewhere in some job systematization. PR service seven employees. In the PR service and the installer and cameraman. Project digitisation of official newspapers – 29 employees. What's most difficult is that 28 editors and executive editors were employed in the official messenger. So many editors have no "Galimar", the world's largest publishing house has no 28 editors and executive editors. Can the state put up with it? Is it possible for a public firm to endure such a blatant approach? Not to mention that many of those 28 editors or editors-in-chiefs are people who already have a job somewhere or are under contract or are retired, so they are hired here. I'm not going into political likeness. I don't want it to be a rematch, so it doesn't. Here's how the SNS is calculated. We deal with malpractice, we deal with irregularities, we deal with illegalities. If we leave it out, then we now take the financial effect of all this, compared to 2011 in 2012 the difference in the expenditures of the public company "The Official Messenger" is 236,185,580 dinars. In a year's time, the expenditures will rise by 236 million dinars. No one hides that the "officer" has won and that the profit has been returned to the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We don't want to mask reality, but I wonder how it's possible in 2011 to make a profit of nearly 86 million dinars, and in 2012, this profit is 4,418,000 dinars, and then when some hidden claims came up, when some invoices came up, the reality was quite different, which is that last year the "Official Messenger" made a loss of 5,600,000 dinars? How? Household business? No, I don't. Responsibilities, profession? No, I don't. The official messenger later began his publishing work, and today it is known that "the official messenger" is in fact the largest publishing house, which, unfortunately, has again broken its basic function by bad business policy. The official messenger became a book factory that was not sold, but stored. For your information, for the information of the public, the "Official Messenger" lager is currently in unsold, printed books, a storehouse of books of 586.439.983 dinars, without any control. In 2012 alone, more than 150,000 dinars of new titles were printed or accepted through compensation and put into some warehouses, without any chance of selling them all. Are we so rich in country and society that we can and that there's an excuse for something like this? The "Belgrade Book" was required to pay for one reckoning, one titled 5,000 dinars. The amount was compensated through books, 18 editions, 7,000 copies, of which 288 were sold. An income of 25.6 000 dinars or a net loss of 4,784,000 dinars has been made. The biggest losses of the "Official Messenger" were achieved through seven magazines - TFT, ZIP, "Political Life", "Legal and Society", etc. The losses per magazine "Legal and Society" are 1,957 dinars. The same question – is there a business decision, does it make sense to treat income in this way, according to money, towards the property of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? In the depots, 1,637 titles are in the warehouses of the official messenger. Over 100 copies were sold 397 titles or barely one fifth. Other or 1,330 titles have been sold from zero to 100 copies. 35 books have not been sold in any copy. Printed, uncompensated, left in some depot, and that deposit and that warehouse are paid later. Kiosk editions, this will be the last thing I'm going to tell you about samples, number 23, a circulation of 284,000 copies, sold to 108, in supplies of 164,000, sold to 30,000,000 dinars, costing 35,000 thousand dinars. When an eight million-dollar and a few thousand dinar advertising is added for it, a clean loss in just one number of 13,000,000 dinars. It's management. It's a waist. It's business. These are the weights faced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether through public enterprises, whether through ministries, whether anywhere we have taken commitments. Let's talk about translation rights. Translation rights for editions that no one buys for just one year only for 2013, an advance payment of more than 117,000 dinars. I could talk a lot about the official messenger. All I'm saying is one suspicion, Mr. Djurdjevic, that, in addition to your best intentions, "the official messenger" will still have major problems because of these acquired obligations. Publishing is a good, human thing, but publishing is not agreed, but somewhat marketable. That was all, but not market. I don't point a finger at anyone, because I have no authority, I'm not paid, and I don't want to be. That's what other people have to do. There are many such cases in "The Official Messenger" and there are many "Official Messengers" in Serbia, which makes me feel hypocritical criticism coming from a representative of the former regime when they lift their finger and point their finger at us who have accepted the friendly bill on changes of the CAP, that we are guilty and responsible for those who have raised that finger and pointed it out, who have had it all the time in this world to change such a law, to accept such a suggestion, but have not accepted it. For this reason, and for the courageous political decisions and for the courageous people who have taken responsibility both in the ministries and in the government and in public enterprises and in the series of municipalities and cities in Serbia, I am proud to be a member of the SNS and I am proud to have increased and greater support with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore, once again, I underline that the SNS will support and vote in full capacity for both of these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15842	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15843	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. It is simply frantic, Madam Chairman, that 11 minutes of his discussion, the previous speaker dedicates the report on the work of the Official Messenger without you ever warning him once. It is your right, legitimate right, that you fear Mr Babic, that you want to let him do whatever he wants in this room, but our democratically legitimate right is to show you that such violations of the Rules of Procedure are inadmissible, that this kind of violation of the agenda has been unrecorded in parliamentary practice ever since the multiparty was introduced. It is legitimate for everyone to regret that "The Official Messenger" no longer publishes the collective works of Vojislav Seselj and Mirjana Markovic on which he has been educated, but it is his legitimate right, but it is also legitimately your right to warn him and at least ask him to speak about the agenda point, and it is the Law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts. I will not ask at all for this to be stated in the voting day, because you will make any decision you want, but I want to tell you that even if you can allow the opposition to respond to such untrues with the language of arguments and facts, even if it is because of the declared department in the election campaign, when they promised not to bring party personnel to the positions of the director of public enterprises, which these companies have destroyed in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15844	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. I'm sorry you don't know me, because if you knew me, you'd know that I was never afraid of anything. I'll remind you of Article 1. Act 2 which says the publication of the "officer" is an act of general interest carried out by a public enterprise founded by the Republic of Serbia. So, the subject matter of this law is actually "the official messenger". It is very interesting for all the MPs and for the citizens of Serbia to hear how this public enterprise is doing its work, so I cannot agree with you that out of fear of the positioning party I did not interrupt Mr Babic. Mr. Babic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15845	Articles 105, 106, 107. I thank you, Madam Vice President, for not being afraid of me. I don't want you to be afraid of me, not just that you're a woman, and I live in a family, from a younger daughter to a 88-year-old mother. That's why I don't expect anyone to be afraid of me, nor did I expect anything like that. My answer is only in one sentence that Serbian citizens know very well. That statement is true. The truth hurts, and what I said is true. The one who got hurt, he answered it himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15846	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15847	I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 298, which says - that this Rules of Procedure has been valid since the day of publication in the Official Messenger. If the ruling majority finds that this Rules of Procedure is not valid, some other Rules of Procedure shall apply to them, at least let us, in writing, inform us in that same "Official Messenger". Don't act like that, when the truth doesn't hurt you, on a sentence that you were in power when Ivan Stambolic was killed. Don't let the truth hurt so much when I tell you that the Minister of Information was Alexander Vukic, when Slavko Curuvija was killed and that he told us to ask his wife where he went for a walk, so he's been gone for a few days. Perhaps these are the answers that will cause you much pain. Don't exactly call on that truth, because it can hurt a lot, and it only requires silence from your side. Even though you can't talk us out of it, try to keep us quiet. It's not too hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15848	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. I didn't interrupt you, not because I'm afraid of you, but because I've allowed you to expose the breach of the Rules of Procedure to the end, but it's also clear to you that you've reached out and misused the right to violate the Rules of Procedure, so this time I'm going to refuse your parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15849	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, everyone has a right to their own chance. The same opportunity was given to the gentleman who spoke before me, so they could deal with the murder of Slavko Curuvija while they were in power. I don't know why they didn't do it. Or since they've come on the wings of some stories of a better life in Serbia, I'd just like to remind myself of what this better life was like before this government was formed. How many people were out of work? How did their executives run public enterprises and other state institutions? It is not according to the Rules of Procedure, and it is not the subject of the agenda when it is said how much the new director of "Serb Railway" has saved, and the Law on Railways is being discussed. You are not the subject of the agenda of what has been done by the "Official Messenger" management before the new director, the new leadership, and the law that regulates the work of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" is under discussion. What's bothering you all the time? Is it true or do you want under the form of disrespect of the Rules of Procedure to hide that same truth from the citizens of Serbia? No matter how hard you try, we'll be telling that truth and who's had the abuses and who ran public enterprises and institutions in such a way as never to run his own company and his own facility. That's the difference between you and me. We respect all that we do, as if we literally were our own, not for us, but for the citizens and the generations. Those who took it, I'm sorry it bothers them, but the truth of what they did and how they took it, how they abused it should be known, and should the citizens of Serbia know about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15850	Thank you. Do any of the applicants want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) In this case, he has the word Mirko Chikiriz, as a representative of the promoter. Here you go. You have no right to a replica. [[Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Why do I not have the right to reply?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15851	I would like to thank again all the heads of parliament and authorised representatives and Mr Babic for very correct discussions and for understanding what is not the political interest or interest of the promoters, but what is the interest of the whole society. In fact, in recent months, we have had the situation, unfortunately, to threaten the prime minister, to threaten the deputy prime minister and the defence minister, to beat up an opposition leader. It seems to me that all these remains and relics are what we had up until a year ago. I also think that the atmosphere in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is getting better year by year, that this National Assembly conference is also a step forward compared to the previous Assembly, and don't forget that we almost until 2000, or 13 years ago, had a situation that many MPs were coming to the National Assembly armed, that MPs from different political parties didn't want to have coffee with each other, etc. What is the strongest message of this session, which is that the state, with the help of the ruling majority and with the help of all opposition parties, has finally decided to turn one completely new page. For what? In an assassination attempt, for example, against Mr Vuk Draskovic in Budva, many state resources, from a military helicopter, from a military boat, from a barracks in Tivt, from false IDs issued by the military and the State Security Service, from using the resources of state security to record and photograph Mr. Vuk Draskovic's house and from being the direct perpetrators of the assassinations of special forces, which was of course under the control of the state. Therefore, by adopting these changes, the state sends a strong message that one new, one better, one more normal time is coming. It is indeed in terms of the general security of all citizens, in a large degree, ever better than the 2000 period, and so on, but it seems to us that this is a point of "i" to a definitive break-up with an ugly past that was up to a year ago and which is the result of various circumstances, because we were the largest opposition party, because we were the biggest advocates of normalising the country and its membership in the EU, as such a Serbian Renewal Movement, and the Democratic Party of Serbia were exposed to the impact of the regime then and we paid the highest price. What we paid for, we do not want to pay for other political parties, other state officials or political party leaders and the Serbian Renewal Movement based on our political mission to normalise relations in society in every segment of our social and political activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15852	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15853	I would ask, as a representative of the Democratic Party, the opposition gentlemen to return to power, in a mental sense, and to begin at last to do your job and not to make false statements in this assembly. It is not possible, it is not in the spirit of the basic basic competence of parliamentaryism, that someone here stands up and praises this government, which has continued the practice of hiring their staff in all possible public enterprises. Hundreds of thousands of people you draw and supplement, otherwise loaded, destroyed, ruined public enterprises. Who are you talking about drawing a line? Imagine once we draw a line behind you what will remain. Tell me one of the public enterprises you've been successful in. If someone saves on the kebabs, and everything else, because he used to be a detour, does that make him a good manager? No, it's because this country is issuing subsidies that they can work and function at all. What are you bragging about? What are you boasting about in this country? A catastrophic economic situation, party employment, rising unemployment, deficit, what, zero foreign investment? That's too much. You can say whatever you want about the official messenger. Your platform was – we'll change everything. You haven't changed anything. Dot. Talk about what's now and what you'll do better. You have no arguments, gentlemen. You just stand up and say what you did. Who do you think is interested in this country, besides the investigative organ? Let them do their job, we don't mind. Stop distracting the public of Serbia. What successful companies are you talking about? What kind of shots are you talking about? You can't stay away from the singers and the other singers who run your manager since yesterday, who bought your diplomas. At least have a little consideration. If someone hasn't done well anywhere, including the official messenger, call them to account. (President: Time. I'm done. No books are printed in the official messenger, as in the commercial publishing company. I know you've been printed by Shessel's books, so they're not sold. Don't compare everything to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15854	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15855	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since I've been mentioned as a previous speaker, it's just a reminder, and in the context of what the head of the DS parliamentary group has been talking about. When you talk about your ineffectiveness and the disaster you've now produced in a year's work of this government, I just don't know if you've been worse last time or now. Last time you did the biggest war and economic destruction in Serbia's history in the second half of the 20th century. Serbia has never been humiliated as it was during your last term. You cannot convince me now that the Vice-President of the Federal Government was not Tomislav Nikolic at the time, that the Minister of Information was not Aleksandar Vukic, and that today we are saying that we are not allowing the status of witness associates to the people who participated in the murder of Slavko Curuvija, when the murderers, Ivan Stanbolic, were discovered, since the murderers were discovered, that you cannot now convince me that the machinery of the evil you started in 1999 when you were wearing a badge, that machine of evil has given its results and because of it we are sitting here today and we are discussing these laws. When you speak - the previous government and criticise the previous government, I am absolutely confident that you are referring to Ivica Dacic, your current coalition partner, Mladjan Dinkic, your current coalition partner. Did you ever wear that prison uniform here and show it in the O.R.? Are you talking about him now? That's what you tell them at the government's sessions, not at Parliament's sessions. What do you burden us with your internal conflicts? What are you telling us about the state of public enterprises? That's what you're talking about. (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... with your coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15856	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are fully aware that we are exercising power, and believe me, it's not much better than the previous government. It's not hard at all. It's enough that we don't do anything, so we'll be better than you. You've done so much damage, we don't need to do anything. Now I will bring out one piece of information and it is official from the Public Procurement Office – 300m euros are public procurement for the same amount of goods and services, saved for the first quarter of 2013. So it's not the Public Procurement Act. It's written that when you draw a line behind the SNS, but for many years you'll be waiting for it, you have to change one great law so we don't go back to the way it was, at least to know why you're changing it. The result and savings achieved at 300m euros is, on the one hand, different management of public enterprises and institutions that carry out the procurement procedure, on the one hand, and where we do not implement it, where it is not carried out by the government and the SNS and this coalition is afraid of coming under the law. You see, it's not that hard to be better than you. Why does that bother? You're talking - we're saving on the kebabs. One hundred and twenty-three official cars were taken away by the director of "Serb Railway". Calculate how much that's fuel savings, on vehicle maintenance. Why were those vehicles bought? Who used them? What were they looking for outside their houses? Is that small? We can... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... wherever you start to talk about it, as well as this famous story spread by the Belgrade Pharmacy Institute, that the drugs will not be due to the Public Procurement Act. He who spreads it and does not do his work, and his activity is to provide the people with medications, should answer not only morally but also criminally.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15858	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15859	Yes, I think you'd be right, Mr. Arsic, if we didn't essentially join us at one point after yours, I think, in content exposure. (Veroljub Arsic: It is said – dots. ) Points. It's that you're essentially now in some way admitting that the thesis that we've brought out. It's not simple, I understand you, you have great internal pain, but we've talked about it before, you've brought trained people without school to run large systems. These people, it's not that they don't want to spread the tender, they don't know how to spread the tender. That's why we have a lot of these companies. You have a problem, above all, in your intricacies, and another problem is your coalition partner who is the doctor of the world's voice science in destroying the Serbian economy. Now you're trying, not to me, because I'm not important here, but to the citizens who are looking at this to explain -- well, you're doing great actually living, because we're doing nothing, and that's why we're better than these before us. But the numbers deny you, Mr. Arsic, that's the problem, the numbers deny you. You have export growth due to the Fiat and a stable course. It's the only two positive things. Everything else is down in Serbia, and everyone who's watching this knows it. I'm not saying it with joy, I'm saying it for a reminder that you promised the diametric opposite things, but the problem is you don't have the expertise. You may be a few of you professional, but you stayed in the Assembly, go help them out there. You see, people don't know. They graduated this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15860	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15861	I agree with my colleague Bork, the figures are the ones who speak. The same amount of work and other services saves 300m euros. Public procurement was done, but it was not done the way it was done in the previous years. As far as expertise is concerned, you are certainly professional in one thing, and I don't believe that almost anyone will overcome you, and that's the expertise that will be looked at in front of the judicial authorities. We're really far behind you, thank God.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15862	Thank you. Mr. Babic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15863	The Rules of Procedure, Art. 105, 106, 107, because it was imputed to the SNS to distract the public, we who are always, when it was bad and when it was good and when we had to boast, always bravely, as SNS President Aleksandar Vukic did earlier yesterday visiting four municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija. But in this distraction of the public, somehow I still hear back from former Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who said and stayed alive, that we were statistically out of the crisis, but that the citizens of Serbia would not feel it. Then who needs to feel it? Statistics or citizens? On the other hand, all this talk of these big replicas, it's like this when someone's putting weights on you, tied to both hands and feet of weights, tied his hands behind your back and pushed you into some cloudy, deep water and said, "Why don't you swim like Mike Phelps, why don't you be a world champion?" Let's get rid of those weights you left us, what I was telling you and when it was the Law on Railways and when it comes to the "Official Messenger" and if that's what the profession has brought, if that's the profession, then I'll tear up my degree in graduate engineering at the University of Belgrade. Speaking of professions, let's not go personally, so we don't see who the Minister of Government was after finishing college from about 15 years of college and when he graduated, after five-octobaric changes and all that. So you better accept reality... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... You better accept that you've paid the price of this in the elections, we'll always pay our price in the election and we're always in the mood for the election and we're always ready for the public court, just like I'm going to do from here, anything bad to happen, first to come out and say – bad to happen, it's not right, but for good things and how I'm going to commend the staff of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15864	Mr. Babic, given that you have used the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure as a replica, this time I will reject your parliamentary group. Borislav Stefanovic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15865	Yes, yes, you will accept every criticism and you will say when something is wrong, but when a grape is born on vervain. So far, we've noticed that every argument we've given you in the last year, or we get within seven seconds to mention Alexander Vukic and how powerful and good he is, or we get a radical statement that you put in a bottle and put in the Danube, so now you take it out. It's a modus vivendi. That's how you work. It's just that it's true. I wish it was like you just said, but you and I both know it's not. So, we say -- people, this is bad, and you say -- it's not true, Alexander Vukitch burns in his business. I don't know if you really think that the numbers in the public opinion studies, which now, as dollars, turn to your eyes, will turn forever. No, it will depend on how much you will, among other things, avoid the mistakes we have made and how much you will succeed in bringing a better life to the citizens. I'm telling you, you can't bring him into a situation where you're talking to me right now, you SNS are talking DS about diplomats. Isn't that a little weird for you? Don't you find it strange after the president, after a thousand of your members that you've shoved into public enterprises, who have been handing out diplomas from the van like that? You're now telling us about qualifications and expertise. Then insult DS – expertise will be in front of state authorities in a criminal sense. Whose? What makes them different? What are your directors? Who are these people? What are their résumés? Where are your pre-election promises? Where are these hills and valleys, canals and hundreds of billions? They're gone. What kind of weights are you talking about? You didn't come with a story with weights, you came with a story – we have a solution right away. That's the problem. Your intricacies are the weights of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15866	Thank you. Who wants a replica of you two? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it wasn't us who promised 200,000 jobs in the campaign, so someone lost 200,000 jobs during their government. It's not even said it'll be better today or tomorrow. In our campaign we kept talking – we'll make it a little better today than yesterday and make it a little better for us tomorrow than it is for today. The reasons why the state is in such a difficult situation are known. These are the mistakes that Mr. colleague, head of the DS Group, keep saying, they're their mistakes, not ours. We won't repeat your mistakes. When I said we shouldn't do anything, I thought it was enough that no one would steal anything from this country and this people would be a little better. It's not a problem when power is incompetent. All right, the people were wrong, they were incompetent, the people replaced them. The problem is when the government takes away from the people. That's why you lost the election, not only are you incompetent, but that's why. When you mention those diplomas, see how many of your ministers are already in front of the judicial authorities. We didn't ask these judges and prosecutors, you chose them. Only now can they do their job, unlike the previous government. Now every state organ, not only can, but it has to do its job. That's the difference between this government and the one before. There is no magic wand that will solve all economic problems in Serbia, you know it very well and you can constantly attack it, but it does not exist. We've been falling apart for many years, and the excuse was the global economic crisis. There has been a crisis in Serbia for at least 20 years. The first time we tried to stop the collapse, and I'm sorry that you didn't see it coming, but that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15868	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15869	Yeah, but what went wrong with your hand? Among other things, that during the previous government, compared to this current government, in a year you succeeded, here's what went with your hand, to increase the consumer basket by 20,000 dinars, you managed to increase the number of unemployed in Serbia by 30,000, you managed to reduce foreign investment from 2.5 billion euros to 100 million euros, you managed to bring astronomers to work in the Office for Serbs outside Serbia, you managed to bring... Well, I can do that by tomorrow. What is it, a mathematician, an astronomer or an astrologer? Astrologer, I guess he's looking at the stars to help the Serbs in the environment. That's what the gentleman knows, I won't name him, who sits in the front row, and he'd agree with me if he could. It's a fact and of course there's no magic wand. Of course, for the hundredth time again mantra, all those who have committed a crime may answer. When I say that, can we talk normally? What are these people that are going to get us out of this situation? That's what the citizens are asking of you. How is it with Dinkic returning the loan he took? You're telling us about Mirko Cvetkovic's statement, and Dinkic said the crisis is our chance. And now he says we're out of crisis, but citizens don't feel it yet. You don't know who you're quoting anymore. They're your coalition partners. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Mirko Cvetkovic said. ) No, said Mladjan Dinkic. Check it out, gentlemen. He said recession. So you guys can't get to each other, and you're saying something against us. Guys, you understand, we're the opposition. It's up to us to suggest, to make concrete suggestions, to help this country, but also to say what you're not doing right, and unfortunately you're not doing right. It's called a lower-value complex. You've got 50%, and you're trying around us when you're 17. What do you care about us, you're powerful. You see, that's the complex you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15870	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15871	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will be proud of my diploma, as every man in this country should be proud of his profession. Let's just push away some insinuations for once. If you have anything against it, or if you have knowledge, or if you have evidence that someone who is a member of the SNS diploma has acquired it illegally, go to the police, to the judicial authorities, to those who need to do it, and those people, if that's true, will answer. If that's all you have in your imaginative imagination, then stop distracting the citizens and all of us here with that kind of stuff. If someone says they're in opposition and we don't have to deal with it, we don't do it, but when we're at the profession and the professional staff right where you run power, let's talk about the expertise of Sapic Dr. Alexander, called Gangul. What are those colleges that ended so quickly? What kind of professional calls are these? Are we going to talk about Alexander Bjelic, a graduate driver, who is afraid and shivering in Belgrade, without whom nothing can be done? Shall we talk about it? Shall we go around those frames? Don't get caught up in it, people. The wisest thing is that what is well supported in full capacity, to move forward, and what is not good, believe me, I'll be the first to say from this pay phone that it's not good, but in this way imputing only one side of intricacies, because you would like it to be, as well as a bunch of fears and panic that you spread during the election campaign, so it didn't bear fruit. When will you learn once that Serbian citizens no longer trust you?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15872	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vuceta Toskovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15873	I'd say something, although it's hard for me to say because I didn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15874	Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure did I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15875	Art. 105, 106, 107, from first to last. I have to say something, since 2000, that the DS was the government's headquarters in Serbia until a year ago, that's what I find difficult to say because I'm not one of those, the bigger thief who wasn't in this country's history. Please, in a year, every year they're in any way, and now I'm going to tell you some examples, two or three billion at all levels, from the local community...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15876	Mr. Toskovic, just get back to the Rules of Procedure, please. We're going completely against the Rules of Procedure to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15877	I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure because they hurt everything they could. Take the King. The king, for which we gave money, the mayor took a million euros. Take a look at the province of Vojvodina Development Bank and everything else, and see in Belgrade what you've done with Sapic how many of your associates with public enterprises have been doing. My people, I'm saying this for the people, you stole more. We don't want to do anything and your diplomas for being such an excellent graduate have made a mess of the state. You'd better be illiterate without stealing anything and doing nothing, we're gonna sneak on those thieves of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15878	Mr Toskovic, I will take this time away from your parliamentary group, given that you have misused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want to talk? The word is Srdjan Milivojevic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15879	Madam Chairman, Article 27 again. I don't think it's right that this is the way you take time for a gentleman from his MP group. You should give him a warning because a man called in to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure and he talked for two minutes about some of his hypothetical assumptions, frustrations, some of his fears. I understand that, the man's been here all day in the O.R., he's probably tired, but you know how, we're not obliged to watch and follow such a fragrant violation of the Rules of Procedure by the MPs. Here now three SNS deputies are fighting who will have the right to reply. You two make a deal with each other. We've got the head of the Parliament Group sitting around here replicating, the three of you can't play the head of the Parliament Group, and you can't replicate us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15880	Thank you. Mr. Toskovic will not be entitled to a replica since this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure because we first have Vladimir Ilic, who appears for a replica of Mr. Stefanovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15881	I'm sorry that I finally got involved, I haven't been since the beginning of this debate, but what I've been able to hear, it's obvious that your obsession with Mladjan Dinkic doesn't stop in any way. You mention the lower-value complex, compare yourself to the SNS, ask them what they do to you when you've fallen below 15 -- I don't know why you've been dealing with us for years? I can say here that DS has done a lot of good for Serbia. That there is no corruption in the DS, there is no crime, there is no thieving, that you have improved the economy, that you have promoted Serbia, but unfortunately no one believes me, so you don't believe me either. You don't believe it yourself. That's why I can't say anything good about your party, everything you've done all these years ago, instead of dealing with your internal problems, you solve them by attacking the URS, which is a daily topic for you, and you've got yourself involved. Have you wondered if this congregation should discuss how the King’s help ended? Could that be the subject? What is it you don't do? It's your internal theme, and it's also a theme for all of us. What about the Development Bank? What about the Development Fund? Don't solve your internal problems by dragging all of us in, dealing with yourself. I'd like to say something positive about your rule, but it's really impossible, and you don't believe in your results yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15882	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15883	The funniest thing is when I listen to representatives of the URS who say - your rule, and they have nothing to do with our rule. It's really below every level and I'm not going to waste any more words on it. We are not obsessed with the URS, but like all citizens of Serbia, unfortunately, and how hurt by what Mladjan Dinkic is doing, and the URS is not possessed at all. That's one. Otherwise, the King thing is to be investigated and solved, but it's not ours, it's LDP, if you want to talk straight. Among other things, losing to the elections helped the DS to make those people who were in the DS like many of you now because of power, to go with power or into some other option and that's a positive thing. That's why I can tell you this today. It's not right to say it again, now I don't know who I'm talking to of two, three, five SNS candidates who are going to replicate, I'd say I'd like it to be Mr. Arsic, if I could choose to have you rephrase it to me. It's not right to keep talking about these diplomats, believe me, the people laugh when you talk about it, not personally, but your party. I forgot to say earlier that you brought not only an astronomer into that office, but you brought a clagger singer for the deputy office, so citizens should know that. They have an option for one of them to see the stars of the Serbs in the region, and the other one to sing something to them, maybe that party anthem of yours. It's just one little example. In public enterprises, it's such a catastrophic situation, and you've put so many new people inside but without qualifications, without basics, they don't know what a Virman is, they don't know what a tender is. That's true and that's your expertise and then you're talking about us now. If you are unable to solve problems in the economy in this country, if you are unable to solve problems in health care, in school, in tax policy with this disaster, killing local self-government by Mladjan Dinkic, then tell people, we can't do this anymore and stay away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15884	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15885	I won't answer any more replicas because it doesn't make any sense anymore. Perhaps my colleague Babic will give up or continue but I will set only one example when it comes to public enterprises to quote because you are constantly telling this story about the employment of party personnel etc. So the unsupervised people came to lead, etc. Telekom Serbia, the current director is not a member of the SNS, is not a member of any party, unlike the DS that set up its director there. Whether these people who run public enterprises now have diplomas, real or fake, that's a question I wouldn't be too concerned with, but I've been dealing with the results of these public enterprises since these executives are here. It seems to me that honesty is a much better diploma than the ones their previous directors had. It seems to me a much better degree. And how DS personnel are professional and that nothing is sacred to them and that because of politics, they will endanger the health of Serbian citizens, the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade says. The state auditor said the Public Procurement Act is being applied. The Public Procurement Administration also issued such a statement, and then the director of the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade began to scare citizens that the drugs did not exist because they did not have time to implement the public procurement procedure and that they needed the consent of the Public Procurement Authority for the negotiation process and to withdraw 2.2 billion from the Health Protection Fund without the Public Procurement Act. That's how you run public enterprises and institutions today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15886	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Ilic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15887	I hope I end up with this replica. I also have to remind you that you threw Mladjan Dinkic out of the government when he told you openly that you were doing damage to Serbia, the Serbian economy, mentioning public enterprises that had failed, half a million unemployed people. That's all the time you ran the government. Please, the chairman, remind the ambassadors who are earning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15888	I ask the MPs not to receive from the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15889	I kept my mouth shut while you were talking, so I ask you to respect all the MPs, but also for the members of the government and the ones you called here by different names and sewed on them different titles. I think we should respect dignity together, be objective. We will not help Serbia or the Serbian economy if we conduct such controversy and debates. I think it's about time we sat down and went straight and talked about how to fix things, not about accusing each other of something that was. Let's go, let's deal with this country's future together, not go back in time, because if we go back to the past, then you're at a loss.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15890	Thank you. Replica? Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15891	I'm really going to try to finish, and if I'm expecting a shift from these attackers right now, there's a second team going now, so there's a third shift. But we're used to it. I have to say that it's not, I repeat, correct to say that we've ruined something, and your boss ran the employment economy, you've only run the tax administration for a while, I think or employment, I'm not sure. But basically one, the other, the third and the fourth are catastrophic and that's what's the fact. You can say it a thousand times now, it's your fault, it's your fault, the people know it's your fault. It doesn't matter who's guilty now, but what you're about to do, and what you're doing is wasting huge money for nothing, on the one hand, the inability to project a budget in a realistic way, making terrible damage to the tax administration bill that needs to destroy local self-government until the end, and otherwise you're decentralisation. I'm not criticizing your party and your program, I'm criticizing the government. You're all the same for us. You have one main party and those people have the greatest responsibility, as we did while you were in the government, when we kicked out Mladjan Dinkic, but his ministers stayed in the government. Say that, finish the thought, not half. The fact is that we have a situation where people tell us that we are a criminal structure, and they have the presidents of municipalities who have been convicted and imprisoned. Now I understand, you want to compete with us, put our thieves in court to equalize yourself with yours who have sat in their chairs. Well, that's low and that's what you do. Pass the stenogram notes from your main boards, could 15 people pass your security clearance? Ask your president. Don't rub our noses, you, and don't tell us about diplomats and flats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15892	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15893	I have to answer it one more time, really, as far as thieving is concerned, there's no match for you, and no one can compete with you, it's quite clear and obvious. Please, I'm getting the chairman again. (Chairman: Please do not throw the Messenger away.) I'm going to say it loud and clear again. As far as thieving, abuse, crime and corruption are concerned, you have no match for them. You should be ashamed, I wouldn't answer if I were you, you'd better keep quiet so the people forget what you've been doing. Fortunately for you, the people don't remember long. You'd better keep your mouth shut so the people forget, so call me back in a few years. I'll see you at the election. You've shown what you know by making lies and lies, first of all about Mladjan Dinkic and the URS, you think you're going to hide your bullshit? There's no way you can hide them. We'll remind you all the time, whenever you attack like this without any argument, we'll remind you of what you did, how you stole, and how you abused money from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15894	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15895	I have to say, I'm disgusted. The chairman, you've allowed your party colleague, now to express his gravest insults, without any justification, and to use the terminology that no one here has used, and to take the word, he has used. Now just explain to me, with the help of which mathematics and what rules do you think this is allowed to do? To tell you the truth, you're a thief. We're a thief? You know what, he says we'd better keep our mouths shut. You'll be quiet soon enough. Soon we'll remind you to keep your mouth shut. And then I'm going to ask you, is it nice to have someone tell someone - thieves in this congregation? And to whom they say, thieves. We have made arguments about what Mr Dinkic has done with the country's economy, what this government has ruined the economic and social situation through numbers and arguments, and what we have received. You're the concept of thieving and you allow it? It's a shame. Go ahead and answer what's not exactly what we said, not tell us we're thieves. Thieves are no place in the Serbian Parliament, Madam Chairman. They do not belong in the Serbian Parliament, if anyone is, please choose to establish it and to throw people out, or to apologize to Ilic or to punish him, because this is a shame that you have now allowed. Having a bad opinion of Mladjan Dinkic and his politics, we defend it with arguments, but we didn't use such qualifications, we didn't wear your boss's prison suit. So don't honor us. On the other hand, for DS, it's great when Mr. Ilic and the URS are giving us lectures on honesty and thieving.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15896	Mr. Stefanovic, I would very much like to reply to you if you had come forward with a report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and since you are not, I have no right to replicate this place, so I will refrain from any comment on what you have stated. Olga Batic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15897	The Honorable Chairman, I think you have violated Article 106 since there has been no comment here an hour ago on the bill, the publication of the law, or the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We listen here as always in the absence of anything to say wisely on the subject of the draft laws that are on the agenda, crackdowns and the largest opposition and largest positional parties, now the URS, of course, the subsequent mind is always good, but in the end, subsequently, and I have to tell my colleagues from the opposition that sometimes they should have respected the advice of their much smaller parliaments, because what they're talking about today cost them the choice, the insubordination of those who in time realized some things. I think the EU has ordered a review of the privatisation of the National Savings Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15898	You're absolutely right, Mrs. Batic, and I'll be back on the agenda with that. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Do they want the word of the lawmaker? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15899	I would like to conclude what we started today, we are pleasantly surprised, regardless of what we expected to be very correct and constructive, I hope that all MP groups will support our proposal for the Law, all the discussions that have been led on the bill itself, I think that they have been very correct and constructive, and I hope that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will take on such important issues as this, and that never again in Serbia's political life, the political differences will not be resolved in the way it was in the recent past, so we expect in the voting day, absolutely unique support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-14-0.u15900	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 87 MPs present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zlata Đeric, Dubravka Filipovski, Milorad Stosic and Milica Dronjak. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly has called for today's session, in addition to the representative, Alexander Vukic, first Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Ivan Mrkic, the foreign minister, to attend also Miroslav Jovanovic, Deputy Minister of Defence and Brigadier General Ljubomir Nikolic, head of the International Military Co-operation Directorate at the Ministry of Defence. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint single search on the proposal for a decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security forces training mission Mali, Report of the Security Services Control Board on the surveillance of the work of the Security Service for 2012, with a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Report. In agreement with the decision of the National Assembly, to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions in the agenda under points 8 and 9, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've got time per MP's group in the material. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security forces training mission Mali in 2013 and the Security Control Committee's 2013 Security Control Report on the surveillance of the work of the Security Service for 2012, with a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Report. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Just sign up, Mr. Milivoevich. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
