ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14470	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we've been informed from the media, an unremembered storm, very much storm, some even call a tornado, hit the populated place of Tord in the municipality of Zitiste, near Zrenjanin, for the weekend... (President: Excuse me just a second.) I'm asking the MPs for some attention. In fact, on Sunday afternoon at Easter, the weather was so strong that it ripped the trees down, it destroyed the roofs. According to current unofficial information, more than a hundred houses and auxiliary facilities have been damaged in the populated town of Torda. As I said, the trees were torn up, the roofs flew off the cracks, even the parts of some gates, and what was even scarier, and what we were all aware of in such places, there were plenty of older spending houses, and some of them even the walls were completely torn down, they fell. The locals say it's really lucky that no physical face was killed in that storm. For preventive reasons, even street lighting in Torda was turned off on Sunday afternoon to avoid further complications, or possible power accidents. I must point out that the residents of that village with the flashlights were on the roofs and tried to resuscitate what was possible to bring back the ticks. Of course, in this place we must commend the unity of these people, the locals themselves, who, each of them who is capable of working was on the roof to help the neighbor, friend or acquaintance. This, however, is not the first time this inhabited place has hit a weather like this, but it has never had this much proportions and indeed, the material damage that has been done has never been this great. That is why Sunday afternoon, a state of emergency was announced in the municipality of Zitište, which is unfortunately one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, and it is indeed more than necessary for these people. So far, aid has arrived from the municipality of Zitiste, as well as from municipal public enterprises, in the form of material assistance, materials, ticks and necessary labour. The employees of public enterprises have been there for two days and have been helping people, even the "Position" Kanjiža sent the necessary crep. The heads of this municipality appeal to anyone who has the opportunity to help them. On this occasion, on behalf of the SVM and all of us, I would like to help them with this appeal, to participate in it, to join them. They also expect assistance from neighbouring municipalities, if possible. If I were to use the Institute of Asking Questions, I would ask the Ministry of Trade, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia – is it possible to provide the necessary assistance to the populated city of Tord in the municipality of Zitište, near Zrenjanin, because they say that they still need the crep more than necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14471	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14472	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been a lot of the last days of the April 2nd, today, as a day-to-day story. I'd like to start another topic in this House, ask some questions. In addition to these great days or decisive days in the lives of one nation or one country, there are such key moments, key days, key weeks in private lives. I believe that you are all aware that the last days or last weeks in public are under way a public campaign to help Tijana Ognjanovica, a little girl who cannot be treated in Serbia, or her health is not allowed to be treated in our country. There is a need for intervention abroad. We've made some suggestions. I spoke to the chairman of the board of directors. I hope that some of the little problems that have arisen will be overcome and that this Parliament will be able to help at least in that part of the money collected from the fine, but that is not the point of my question today. I ask you, or I call on you, Mr President, to form a working group that would be joined by representatives of all political parties, or parliamentary parliamentary groups in this National Assembly, and to work together to create a comprehensive legislative solution that would allow these situations to no longer be repeated, that is, in those situations where citizens of Serbia, and especially children, are faced with the situation that the health system of the Republic of Serbia cannot provide them with adequate health care, i.e. health intervention, that in an institutional manner the treatment of these citizens of this country is financed abroad. I think it's kind of a good practice that you started in this Parliament to make so-called. MPs' laws. Some of these suggestions were made and submitted. I think this is an opportunity for all parliamentary groups to engage in this work and that within a relatively short period of time, and I believe that it can be between two weeks and a month, we will both go before Parliament and the public and before the government even with the concept of a law that will solve this situation. Why do I think that's necessary and that's possible? In these situations, there is no blame for those who are condemned to action to collect humanitarian aid, without doubting at any time that there are enough human beings in this country to help in these situations. I deeply believe that the lives of the citizens of this country cannot depend on that kind of help. I hope the problem will be resolved in this situation, but in 10, 15 or 30 days, unfortunately, the country will face a new similar problem. That's why there's no institutional approach in this case. Even though there may be some concern with all of us who are involved in politics that someone will accuse us of using these situations to collect personal points or political popularity, I don't think we should care about that kind of thing. The iron is boiling while it's hot, as our people say, and that this situation of enhanced social sensitivity, for a problem like this, we should use it to overturn it into legal acts that will be binding and that will allow the situation, as I have already said, to be avoided in the future. We can propose some very concrete acts, we can work with the Republic Health Insurance Fund, we can pressure the government to, through budget rebalances in those positions that are regulated for treatment in these situations or for treatment in these situations or for treatment of rare diseases, provide resources. There's something we can do as a parliament, something the government has to do. As you know, only the government can deal with budget rebalancing and I urge you to form such a group very quickly, and the LDP will participate in it. I hope the other parliamentary groups at the job will be hired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14473	Mrs. Papuga, I see you've been reported. Are you an authorised representative, since we didn't get a memo and that's why I'm asking you? You're not. In that case, the word has a People's MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14474	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question will be formally referred to you, President of the National Assembly. This is something about everyone, and above all everyone in this room, all the MPs of the National Assembly. There's a lot going on today, so we've heard different statements. Among other things, today is a big meeting, a regular one, and it turns out it's not the time to comment on it while it's under way. Today is also the World Children's Book Day. You'll see why it's important. Today is April 2nd. April 1st is Fool Day, and April 2nd is, like, the second day of that holiday. We celebrate some holidays, and some of us are ashamed and choose words and choose tones. Here's the tone. For example, journalists, the media, often use incorrect words, false syntagms, to achieve a particular purpose, and that is their trade. So they will often say that, let's say, the state summit meets, although no state summit meets. It's in the press business description and it's part of the trade. That's why I mentioned today is Children's Book Day. The same illustrator, the same craftsman illustrated Gustav Dora and the Bible and Barona Minhausen, but these are not the same books. It's very important who, how and what he says. Serbia's constitution clearly defines the division of power, clearly defines our system and clearly defines the situation, they are extremely traumatic, in which it decides, not to meet, but to decide the state summit. Then these are the highest functions in the country. These are the president of the state, the president of the Parliament and the Prime Minister, who are in that order. Of course, for certain questions it is not necessary. We saw that, because they had been authorized in the previous days, representatives of the Executive Authority met and informed the public about it, which is very good. It is no problem if the media wrote that a state summit was being held, although representatives of the executive government's summit met, but it is dangerous if the state authorities start issuing statements in which they say - today the state summit is meeting. It's just as dangerous as it is that this Assembly is beginning to report to the ministry which is an obligation to submit to the Assembly, which lists the incorrect data or, as a matter of fact, we have agreed, we have reached an agreement, we don't know who and what, there's no information concerning the institutions. Please, whenever it comes to you personally, as president of the National Assembly and the Cabinette, do everything. My formal question is, have you done so in the previous period, that in the statements coming from this House, the correct information, so as not to create a confusion? I have to remind everyone that one thing we have in the hallway is often journalists have, talkers and people often because of their political goals exaggerate something. Sometimes it's nice. You've seen on many occasions that government officials here have also said that they work as a team. It's a political message. But as you know, every ministry knows exactly whose responsibility it is. There's no team responsibility for some things, and there's some. One is formal stuff, one is political messages. In the coming period, it is terribly important that we know what the state and state institutions are behind, behind which are political parties, behind which the executive power stands, so that someone is not unjustly blamed, otherwise we will find that from the language, I say, rudeness, we enter a very unpleasant situation. Thank you all for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14475	Time. As a respected colleague, I want to tell you that all the statements I made as president of the National Assembly and all the statements made by my Office, since this is what I am directly responsible for, were very precise. We never gave any incorrect information to the citizens of Serbia, nor will we ever do it, which I think you could see for yourself. The next reported word is MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14476	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this direct transmission, I have one question for which, truth be told, I am not sure who might give an answer because of my thinking how my question will be, or the question I am asking on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, be treated in public? What's my theme, my question and the notice I'm looking for? Is there justice in Serbia? To narrow the question, the focus of what I want to ask and ask for notice, the answer to that question is so-called. selective justice. I have one question that is not clear to me as a national representative and citizen - what is happening in public and state bodies? It's recently due to alleged malfeasances, I have to say so because I was so raised – better to let go of a hundred guilty than an innocent accused and that no one is guilty until proven guilty, but in public we have the case of Agrobanka. These were arrested by Agrobank leaders and those who took credit from Agrobank under the conditions they had taken, and as it is said in public, against the law and the property of citizens of Serbia, that is, the money found in Agrobanka. It's just a part, a part, the left-hand side of the proportion of the question I want to ask. On the other hand, we have the Vojvodina Development Bank and one party that took a loan from that Vojvodina Development Bank. Looking as a citizen and as I've questioned the people, they don't see what the difference between the Agrobank case and the Vojvodina Development Bank is, moreover, the DS, and I'm particularly interested in getting an answer to that question, and yet I am asking you, Mr. President, Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice of this country. Most of all, because we from New Serbia were trying to get some credit at the beginning of the election campaign, of course in a much smaller amount, that's the part that we had in the coalition, trying to guarantee multiple times the value of the loan to our own personal property of party officials and we were rejected. As we regulate that part, the leaders in our coalition know it. But I ask the question, most of all, because it irritates me that those who wrongly took a loan for a political campaign, we don't know who signed the loan, because it is the money of the Serbian citizens, because of the cynicism of that party that has now come up with a programme and offers Serbia a programme to save Serbia. So, the company that went bankrupt, took the loan apparently by breaking laws and having the privilege of having political influence in that Vojvodine Development Bank, now offers Serbia a programme to save Serbia. So, let's take the microplan, in a city firm, a private social, state-owned, bankrupt company in its business, now offers other firms, or Serbia how Serbia can be saved. But we can treat this in terms of different morals in politics, but I want an answer to the question I believe will be difficult to get – what is the difference between those who took on such terms loans from Agrobanka and are now arrested by DS who have taken credit from Vojvodina Development Bank in the same way? So, I insist on answering this question and the New Serbia parliamentary group will insist in the coming weeks and days on clear answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14477	The word has Dr. Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14478	Honorable MPs, the honourable speaker of parliament, a few days ago three Serbian citizens were sentenced in some EULEX court in Mitrovica to jail for participating in demonstrations on March 17th 2008. The process lasted several weeks, perhaps longer, and we were able to take it very marginally from our media, but we couldn't hear if the government had done anything about it. I also questioned people from Kosovo, it seems that the government did not move with its finger when the mounted process was open, when it lasted, and when it ended in prison for the people who participated in those demonstrations. I would remind you that the government was obliged to at least look at the documentation from that time, in mid-March 2008, since the then government, the last one in relation to this present one, made a very comprehensive report on the event, and in that report was a request for an international investigation of the event from 17 March 2008. That request has been answered. The UN Security Council, several investigators came to Mitrovica and Belgrade and conducted investigations, wrote a report at the end of April in early May 2008, but the report never came to the Security Council. Five years later, the EULEX court found it appropriate to arrest people who allegedly committed crimes or crimes, because there were also such charges, in that event, and it was clear to the participants at the time and those who were later investigating that the perpetrators of this event were actually representatives of the US administration or US officials on the ground. Just to let you know that before UN investigators came a few days earlier, Larry Winston, who was the police commander, practically fled from Kosovo and fled to America. He therefore did not want to answer questions, and he ordered UNMIK police to assist KFOR, the French tank squad and another large number of soldiers to go to the Mitrovica court, arrest judges, Serbs who were there, over 35 judges and court personnel and to take them to Pristina and arrest them there. It's an unprecedented event. There's a file on him. He was not completed because the Security Council did not discuss him because someone magically filed the document, a report that exists, was put away. Neither the last government nor today has done anything to re-examination the matter and to initiate proceedings against the perpetrators, because the perpetrators are known. However, if what happened a few days ago that innocent people who participated in demonstrations were indicted and convicted, then at the very least the government should have reacted. These are citizens of Serbia and if this is not done, the government will actually allow KIM to be a free hunting ground for arbitrary indictments and arbitrary actions of the EULEX judiciary and the EULEX Police, not to mention ROS, special units, etc. I really want to draw attention that this is a difficult event that has to be repeated in some way in our media and our political activities because then a provocation was made against the Serbs in Kosovo so that they would react to this provocation, and they had to because the judges were arrested and taken to Pristina. They went out into the streets and there was a massive fight and unkind events. These events used tear gasses, bomb shocks, rubber bullets and snipers, and this is all evidence that was neatly handed over to investigators in April 2008 when they arrived. For Serbia and the Serbian government, this thing must not be finished because it is a rule of law, a principle that we must fight for throughout our territory and also for KIM. If there are forces there that violate this principle and act as colonists or as occupiers, Serbia must not allow at least in the framework of the regular activities of the government and the judiciary and the prosecution and the police can influence that these things at least be discussed again and never forgotten.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14479	The People's MP, Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14480	Dear President, fellow MPs, I would like to refer a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Health, and I am interested primarily in the Law on Public Procurement, which began to apply yesterday, and concerns state pharmacies. State pharmacies have long since expressed their suspicion that the application of the Law on Public Procurement will take place since they are in an unequal position in relation to private-owned pharmacies, i.e. I would like to ask – will there be a tender for state pharmacies within eight days, because if this does not occur, the closure of state pharmacies will be threatened especially in rural areas. There's no tender procedure that can be done in eight days, especially not in state-owned companies where we know that before the board of directors sits down, and that's going to take a long time? That is why I am asking my parliamentary question – what is the intention of the state and these public procurements? Is it in any way destroying state pharmacies? Is this leading to the closure of state pharmacies and does the state have any strategy towards this ratio of public procurement and state pharmacies?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14481	MP Vesna Stepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14482	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members of the People, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Goran Knezevic. I come from the municipality of Vladimirovci, which belongs to the Mačvan County, whose residents are mainly agricultural, indicating that as many as 3,707 agricultural holdings have been registered on the territory of the municipality. I'll be specific. My question concerns a procedure where a pasture can be brought to another culture. Namely, in accordance with Article 75. The law on agricultural land can only be brought to a different culture provided that it achieves a more rational and economic use of land. When reregistering agricultural land and exercising the right to subsidies, agricultural producers are faced with the problem that a large number of cadastrian parcels of agricultural land are being managed under culture – a pasture, although the real situation is different, because agricultural producers in most cases destroyed pastures and thus brought them to a new culture. On the one hand, the reason they did so is the need for larger areas of farmland. On the other hand, the procedure for bringing in new culture, under the applicable Regulation on cadastrian classification and land bonitation, is very complex and slow and requires large financial resources. According to this Regulation, the applications are submitted to the competent office of the immovable cadastre, and then passed on to the Republic Geodetic Office in Belgrade, followed by the Director of the Republic Geodetic Office as a solution educates the Land Catastrian Classification Commission on the territory of the unit of local self-government for which the cadastrian land classification is carried out. After that, the commission enters the field, determines the facts and makes a solution to bringing land to a new culture. We will agree that the procedure is clear and precise, but that it requires additional time and money, which are the most valuable resources for farmers. I wonder if the Ministry of Agriculture can simplify and reduce the cost of the pasture process to new culture, or whether it is possible for agricultural producers, who, during re-registration, have reported that they have sown some agricultural culture in pastures, to exercise the right to subsidies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14483	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14484	Mr. President, I have a few questions, but before I say that the NS MP brutally abused the Rules of Procedure and the agenda point because he made extreme flat-rate, unverified assessments regarding the DS and its relationship with Vojvodina Development Bank, i.e. for orderly payment at the time of each dinar of legally taken credit, which is verifiable by the fact that DS, unlike NS, or what someone would say – the parties for stealing, puts their reports on the site. (President: Please do not do this and continue with the questions. ) So, I would ask that they put on the site only one of their financial statements. My question is for Minister Dinkic – what will he do specifically, given the state of public debt of 14.8 billion euros, 31. 12. In 2011, he came in 28. 2. 2013 at 19 billion euros? The new government has owed about 2.2 billion euros since the takeover of power by the end of the calendar year 2012, and 1.3 billion euros for the first two months of this year. This means that the government, or government, is in debt for seven months for about 3.5 billion euros. If they repay $400m in debt, their debt remains huge and amounts to over three billion euros. Therefore, I would like to hear what Minister Dinkic will do specifically on this issue and tell us what measures this thing will regulate, reduce it, set an adequate proportion, reduce the recorded increase in inflation, price and tax to 20%. My next question is for the Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, where's the office for quick answers? I think the citizens deserve it, because they voted for that famous office, we couldn't breathe from it, and now we don't see it anywhere. The next question is for Sartid and Minister Dinkic. I would ask to determine who made a 1.7 billion-euro debt before 2001, since then Sartid, while some government gentlemen were in power, making mushrooms, so I wonder who made the 1.7 billion-euro debt? How much stimulation, Minister Dinkic, has been spent from the budget for foreign jobs and how much in domestic small and medium-sized enterprises? For example, why do pesticide producers pay 20 % VAT for raw materials and importers pay 8 % for finished product? That question was for Minister Knezevic. Why did the Vd Director of the Institute for War and Vrtivstvo, Miroslav Maleševic, of the SPS, resign, quote – because he could not withstand the pressure to hire party personnel, over 50 members of the SPS? The next question is for Minister Knezevic – is it true that in the first two months of 2013, exports fell, i.e. external trade in agricultural and food products for 57%, so now it's only $52.6 million? It's data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. A agriculture expert from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has provided very clear and accurate data, counterpart Babic, who confirm this. The source is down. In January and February alone, the source of agricultural products and food by 2%, while imports increased by 32%. Until the aflatoxin problem is removed and the allowed level is returned to 0.05 per kilogram, Serbia will not be able to export milk to Macedonia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 2012, only these products were exported to $90 million. It reduced the exports of corn from Serbia in the first two months of this year due to aflatoxin infection, so corn fell to the sixth place in the list of agricultural and food products. I have a clear question, and concerning the events in Shid, and what will Minister Kalanovic, Minister Dacic, do, as Deputy President of the municipality of Šid, yesterday, publicly, on his profile, enforces citizens of Serbia's Catholic religion on their Easter, with the most vulgar possible words and is recorded in the means of public information? Several parties have staged their protest. Otherwise, the gentleman's name is Srdjan Malešević of the DSS. So, I'm wondering if the D.A.'s office, will the Unbreakables, the Unsullied, do anything in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14485	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14486	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is a day for parliamentary matters, unlike my predecessor, I will ask one single question. I will not, like him, go into the general political situation in Serbia, from finance to anything, stick to what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Before I ask the question, I would like to point out that I am not personally satisfied, I have asked two questions in this assembly, and both concern the privatisation of large companies from 2000 to today. The first question was the privatisation of Nisal from Nis, which was leading in the metal complex at the time of privatisation. Neither minority shareholders nor I personally are satisfied with the answer of the Minister of Economy and Finance, because it is very superficial, without a concrete answer to the questions asked, and regarding the issue of the disputed privatisation. The second question was the privatisation of the construction company "Gradjevinar" and I received an answer from the same ministry, but in one small paragraph. I think the assembly service would have to take some steps to ensure that the ministries provide concrete answers to the questions asked. My question today also concerns the privatisation of one of the largest banks in Southeast Serbia, which is the privatisation of the "Low Bank". Ladies and gentlemen, it was a bank that funded the development of the entire southern Serbia. As you know, the bank was sold for 14.2m euros to the Hungarian OTP Bank in 2006. I note that one of the directors of OTP Bank is the brother of the then governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr Jelasic. It is strange that the bank's sales price was set at 14.2m euros when it was known that the bank had extra funds in its 7m-euro account, and also on the basis of the claim it had about 25m euros in claims, which simply says that the bank was worth 32m euros at the time of privatisation. Privatisation of the "Niška Banka" sold about 30,000 square metres of residential space, almost in all the cities of Southeast Serbia. The privatisation of that bank also deceived former bank workers, as the buyer of OTP Bank from Hungary is in co-operation with the Deposit Insurance Agency in Belgrade, without respecting the contract to buy "Niška Banka" and the social programme that was part of the contract, hiding its existence and not informing employees of their rights, under Article 151. The labour law, led the employees into error and fraud, along with mobbing, through the illegal offer of leaving the bank, in May 2006, damaged workers, over 100 of them, for about a million dinars. After only two years of sale, the Niš central bank and most of the organisation parts in Southeast Serbia were closed. The bank's business space is constantly being sold, including assets that were not owned by the bank. My question for the Minister of Economy and Privatisation is – when will the review of the illegal privatisation of the Niška Banka and establish irregularities in the privatisation process? Who set the sale price for the Low Bank for 14.2m euros and based on what? Third, which is why the Deposit Insurance Agency is in Belgrade, i.e. Her director, Milorad Jambić, hid a social programme from the workers of Niška Banka, although under the law he is required to control the implementation of a contract on the sale of a bank, whose component is the social programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14487	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We are continuing the initial search on the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. The word is by MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14488	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Act, proposed by Parliament President Nebojsa Stefanovic. The issue of birth is the question of life. Is there any clearer message than the one that the legislator, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, sent to us, MPs and citizens of Serbia? There's definitely no SNS. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act is based on the Constitution, based on Convention number 183 on the Protection of Motherhood, but also on the reality, i.e. this draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act is absolutely in line with the time, i.e. in accordance with the moment at which it should be adopted. The reality in Serbia, as far as birth is concerned, is not good. The birth rate in Serbia has passed nine, the mortality rate has dropped 14.2. All seven municipalities in Serbia are marked by positive natural growth. The municipality of Priboj, from which I come, unfortunately, is surrounded by those municipalities that are recorded by negative natural growth, and in 2012, a 201 person was born in the municipality of Priboj and 242 died in 2012. The old-fashioned structure of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is also 42 years old, which is certainly not a good indicator. The number of children born alive is below the threshold of free reproduction. It's all data that's worrying. Of course, previous MPs, because we have been talking about this law for the third day, have provided information known to them from the experience of women, that during the first interview with employers, they were in some way discriminated by asking questions – whether they wanted to give birth, or whether they wanted to sign off if they got pregnant and went to maternity leave. The proposer of this law wanted, above all, to protect women who had a contract for a certain time, to protect them from the possibility of firing them until returning from sick leave. Also, the second aspect of this bill is the protection of breast-feeding mothers, i.e. it is an obligation for the employer to, if the woman who is on maternity leave wants to go back to work, that she is obliged to give her one or more breaks for 90 minutes, or to shorten her working hours for those 90 minutes. This is also important because breastfeeding is the healthiest way to feed for the growth, development and progress of the child. All the countries in the world and how they support breastfeeding, as a healthy beginning to life. This bill certainly is the first but valuable step on the plan to protect motherhood and life, but also on the agenda of a more responsible state policy, in the field of demographic and social policy. The protection of motherhood and the protection of life are just enough reasons why the SNS will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14489	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14490	Thank you. Dear President, dear colleagues, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. The envisaged changes relate, above all, to the protection of pregnant women and maternity, and the purpose of these changes is precisely to make the mother feel safe and protected in our society and thus to support the fight to increase the birth rate in our country systematically and systematically. It is precisely one reason for the urgency of adopting this law to prevent and stop the negative consequences as women have experienced daily, such as conditioning or blackmail when they start a working relationship, or as a loss of employment as a result of pregnancy. It means that they appear forever to remain a thing of the past. One of the scheduled changes is that a working woman who returns to work before the maternity leave expires a year ago after giving birth to a child, that the employer is obliged to provide her with a break during working hours of 90 minutes, so that the woman can breast-feed her child, and if the working time is a woman who is employed for six hours and longer. The woman was left with how she was going to use those 90 minutes, whether she was going to use them at once, whether she was going to make more breaks, or in those 90 minutes she was going to cut her hours short, it was left to the woman to decide on her own, how it suits her most. What's very important and what I would point out is that those 90 minutes, that break, that bill and pay as regular hours. The second amendment refers to the present position of Article 2 in 187, according to which so far, the worker who has established a working relationship at a certain time, during pregnancy, during maternity leave, in the absence of a child or for the care of a child, may stop working before the deadline for which it is based. Here we have, in practice, one situation that employees are completely unprotected in this entire situation, practically left to the mercy and mercy of their employer, so that this changes and the employer will not be able to, in the future, under the above circumstances, cancel the contract of employment to his employee, and if the employer decides to ignore the decision to prohibit the dismissal, such a cancellation is nothing, or produces any legal fact. What is very important is that this change is not damaged by the employer because the employer is obliged to pay off only the first month, because of these absences, and later all these sums are refunded from the budget, so that in this way it was seen that interests and employers are reconciled, to meet both the employer and the employee. What I would point out and what is particularly commendable in the whole story is that, as a society, we gradually mature and see an additional need for protection and for the help of pregnant women and maternity women, who are in this time period and how they need it, how legally, above all, but also in the form of the establishment of different counselling centres, different groups of support, then "Mommy House", which we see becomes a practice in our country and I sincerely hope that this is just the beginning, that it will still work in that area, and I sincerely hope that in Serbia, of course, when the economic moment allows it, that it will be opened and kindergartens within institutions where women are employed. The benefits of such a project, which is already largely present in many European countries, do not need to be particularly stressed. It is, first of all, the proximity of mother and child, and we all know, many learned studies prove that when a mother is aware that the child is near her, that it is safe, that she is taken care of, then her productivity at work is much higher. It is simply up to us to do everything as a society to help women with a very demanding task, which is that on the one hand they are very successful women of employment, and on the other hand a good and quality mother. This law is exactly one very important step in achieving this goal, as well as in seeking to encourage women to become mothers, and that, if they decide to take such a step to become mothers, to make it clear to them that they are not alone and not unprotected, but to have clear, unequivocal and very concrete assistance from the state. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14491	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the first step in improving the situation in the field of protection of workers, especially those categories of workers with special needs. Given that the status of workers in the last 12 years has been influenced by the wind blowing from the west and under the blind obedience of those who have applied that wind, without taking account of what impact it will have on the real life of citizens and workers, we have come to the situation that Serbia can be characterised as one of the most negative countries in respect of workers' rights. When I say that, I'm not just talking about the rights of pregnant women or birthrights, but, in general, from the adoption of a new Labour Act, the rights of workers in general. This is one of the first steps towards reforming and improving the status of the working class that has carried on its weak back a heavy burden, a burden measured by billions of euros taken from this country and taken from the citizens of this country. The status of workers or workers' rights, which had to be respected, despite the fact that some of the previous authorities wanted to court their mentors from the West, applying in practice the most liberal capitalist solutions and deprived workers of their fundamental rights, so they did not take care how workers would survive, and this resulted in the worst form of impact on those most sensitive categories of workers, which are pregnant women and families. The Socialist movement has had a clear strategy since its creation to improve workers' rights, and in this sense, I, as a member of the Socialist Movement, will give full support to such changes and additions to the Law, which will result in a real improvement in the status of pregnant women and maternity women. At the end of the line, it will also have an effect on improving the birth rate, which is indeed worrying throughout Serbia, and especially in those environments that are plagued by the constant lack of jobs, the constant difficult situation in the area of economy, such as Pirot from which I come, and in particular have problems with these negative ages and with the white plague that has prevailed in many places, especially in places with a difficult economic situation and with an economy that has fallen into the grips of this neoliberal capitalism that has been introduced into Serbia. So this is one of the attempts and a good step towards improving the status of workers. This is a good attempt that will certainly result in a change of one part of the Labour and Labour Status Act, as it will allow the maternity and breast-feeding to become more committed to their children and will allow workers and workers, in particular, to be more protected than anything that has been present in the last ten or twelve years. How many times have all of us as MPs been in a position to hear an appeal, call out certain workers who were looking for a job were blackmailed that they had to accept that they would not become pregnant or that employers were giving them ultimatums that if they got pregnant, if they needed more protection, they would be fired. It is something that is embarrassing to all of us, regardless of what parties we are from, regardless of what political implementation we belong to, and indeed it is the final moment for us as MPs to deal with this problem that has gone beyond Serbia, which is not only about individual parties of the left or right orientation, but about all of us, and which, if it is not resolved, will be really a stumbling block that can lead us to a very difficult situation from which there will be no return. I have to remind myself that in some environments, like Babusnica, the rate of negative growth is so great that it's worrying that almost twice as many people are born as it gets out of this world. This is one of the measures that will enable young couples, young workers, and workers to be more protected in terms of their rights in the context of employment, to devote more carefreely to family creation, without fear of losing their jobs. With this in mind, I appeal to all the MPs to accept these proposed amendments and amendments to the law, because I really think that the intention is best and that these best intentions can produce very good consequences, and that this is just a necessary, necessary first step in improving labour rights in Serbia, which will surely have to be improved, for which we from the Socialist Movement are going to be able to stand in line with our coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14493	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14494	Since the beginning of this debate, the Honored Chairman, colleagues and colleagues have been very much told about all topics and variations on the subject of child protection, i.e. the protection of parents who have children. Given that there has been a negative natural growth in our country for a long time and that only about 75,000 babies are born annually, what was born, and there are parents who can support them from a working relationship, be half of that figure, but that's an unreliable data. It's an illustration of how difficult the situation is, since I'm in the city where I come from, I'm in Chačka with medicine, and I often have contact with people who do things because of their poverty, I can tell you that in the 21st century you have criminal abortions that are still done in a traditional way, and then there's an infection. People come and try to pretend to have another disease, that is, these unfortunate pregnant women, who are either vertebrate or otherwise, women who get into infection are likely to be life-threatening and are likely to go to a head, but it simply failed to track down our statistics, or diagnostics, were unable to determine something that was very difficult to determine in a situation when a woman comes and knowingly lies on the subject of her illness and the criminal abortion she did. The other thing is what happens in private offices, for which we really don't have adequate statistics -- how much revenue there is in private clinics. So, the situation is much worse than what we actually know is happening in the birth stage and in the stage of leading pregnancy and maternity leave. Given the difficult and dreary things that women are forced to do because of the economic situation, since children are very difficult to grow up, even when parents are either home or well-sighted, I suggest that we put something in this bill that might help a little bit more to solve the situation. For example, if we know that marriage mates are equal in child rearing and that often a male spouse can be in a situation that is only employed, I suggest that the possibility is added to this law that if a pregnant woman is unemployed and her spouse is employed at a specified time or under contract, that the same provision of this law applies to the second-hand employee, who would, on the same deadline, be insured from jobless rest or otherwise contribute to the protection of his or her offspring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14495	Thank you. The word is Dragan Nikolic. National MP Dragan Nikolic is not here. People's emissary to Olena Papuga. She's not here either. National MP Radoslav Komlenović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14496	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I must say at first that the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. However, I must say that JS also advocates our mothers, pregnant women and foster mothers who are not in a working relationship. I hope there will be a quick bill in this house that the MPs will discuss. I must remind the MPs and citizens of Serbia of some facts that must constantly remind our citizens. According to the 2012 census, in Serbia 377,335 residents are less. Serbia is the fourth country in the world, according to the number of residents over 65 years old. The average age of its citizens is 41.3 years. Men live on average 71 and women live on average for 76 years. The younger population accounts for 19.7% of the population and older than 65 years - 17.24%. One-member households in Serbia are 504,775, and over half a million are single and single, over 30 years old. According to the projection by the Republic Statistics Institute of Serbia, 1.8 million people over 65 will live in 2017 and make up 26% of the population. Serbia, according to these projections, will have 6,850,000 inhabitants in 2032, and 27.2% will be over 65 years, under 19 years of age, around 21%. Two hundred thousand abortions or devastations happen in Serbia annually. The mortality rate has increased more than once, so 30,000 people die more a year than they are born. If we go back to the beginning of the last century, we see that to date the Greek people have increased by 35%, Bulgarian by 38%, Romanian by 45%, Turkish by 400%, and Albanian by 700%. Only the Serbian people didn't increase. We have 4,800 villages in Serbia. In Serbia, 25% of villages will disappear over the next 15 to 20 years, if this continues. The number of citizens under 15 has leveled with the number of citizens over 65 years. There's five grandmas coming for one baby. Every fourth marriage is childless. Only 0.88 children per woman. Two thousand champion students were less enrolled in 2012. In 1980, 110.000 children were born, 78,853 children in 2001, 68,000 children in 2010, and 65,000 children in 2011. In 2012, there were 45,000 places in Serbian universities, so all the children who were born in 2011 were able to attend colleges in 2012. This is not only a fight against the white plague, but also a fight for a new life, a struggle for Serbia's survival. Imagine Serbia without its children in schools, in parks, in playgrounds, in cradles. It's hard for you to imagine. Then look around you, and you'll realize it's already become reality. We've always been proud of history, and soon we'll be history. It's our last moment to regain consciousness and finally start making the right laws. Therefore, our struggle must first focus on the awareness of the people about the facts of life itself, on the affirmative approach to life, as the greatest sanctity. As a people, we need to come up with a cultural and moral pattern, which says life begins from conception and that Serbia's absolute national priority is to increase the birth rate. The reasons why the JS parliamentary group supports this proposal are the main objectives of the JS, which is the fight against the white plague, which we currently consider the country's largest evil in Serbia. The draft of this law allows a working woman who returns to work one year before the birth of a child to ensure the right to one or more daily breaks during daily work, for a total duration of 90 minutes or for a reduction of daily working hours of 90 minutes, so that she can breast-feed her child if the daily working time of a woman is six or more hours. A break or a shortened working time referred to in item 1 shall be calculated at working hours, and the remuneration of employees on that basis shall be paid at the level of the basic earnings increased for past work. Article 2 shall amend the position of Article 2 of Article 187 and it shall read as follows that, as set out in Article 1 of this Article, the period for which the contract has established a working relationship for a specified period shall be extended until the expiry of the right of absence. In particular, what makes us happy is that the cancellation is invalid if, on the day of the termination of the employer's employment contract, the existence of the circumstances referred to in Article 1 was known or the employee informed the employer of the existence of the circumstances referred to in Article 1 within 15 days of the date of receipt of the notice. By passing one of these laws, we will finally stand in the way of the will of employers and discrimination against all women who want to be delivered as mothers. Unique Serbia has been struggling with a series of self-initiative incentive measures to accelerate the birth rate at local level, and now we are getting a legal basis that greatly facilitates our efforts. Once again, I have to repeat that JS is fully involved in both our mothers and our foster parents, pregnant women, who are not in a working relationship, and that this is a strong JS position and in the JS's programming goals. I can give an example of Jagodin, a city that, according to the last census, is one of the few towns in Serbia that has more population than in the last list, because a number of measures that JS conducts and when a child goes to school and when he is born and when he finishes fourth and eighth grade and high school, it contributes. I also have to list the town of Kruševac, where I come from, that we planned in the budget this year for our mothers, maternity and pregnant women who don't work anywhere to receive tens of thousands of dinars a month until the child turns one year old, it's at an annual level of 120 thousand dinars. Once again, I want to say that JS will support this law in the voting day. I want us to go one more step further and help our mothers and families who aren't employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14497	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ( b) Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled debate on the proposal for a law. We move on to a principled search on the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with INVALIDITY You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. You've got time per MP's group in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. We'll only wait for a representative of the promoter to join us. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does Prime Minister Jovan Krkobibic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Employment and Social Policy want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14498	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the draft law amending and supplementing the law on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, which the government established at a session held on 28 February 2013. We've started a procedure to amend and supplement this law for the following reasons. First of all, because of the need for a termological harmonisation of the laws with changes in the publication of statistics data. Secondly, compliance with State aid control rights as well as simplifying the process of perfecting employment obligations for people with disabilities. The adoption of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in 2009, established the first framework as a basis for more effective and quality alignment of persons with disabilities in the open labour market. Since the entry into force of this law, 9,157 people have been employed with disabilities. An assessment of the working capacity and employment opportunities or maintenance of employment has also been carried out for 12,000 people. Other measures and activities are being taken to improve the position of persons with disabilities on the labour market. When it comes to the terminology of the provisions of the Law, it should be borne in mind that the Republic Statistics Institute of 1 January 2011, does not publish data on average employment per employee in the Republic. For these reasons, it was necessary to make changes and in line with the type of data, which official statistics continue to publish. This change will have an impact on the employer when he implements his obligation to hire persons with disabilities in some other law provided for, rather than by, employment itself. But it will also have an impact on the amount paid by the state in the name of subsidies for employees with disabilities for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Also, the proposed changes will have a positive impact on employers' obligations to hire disabled persons, as it is in certain cases an incentive to hire people with disabilities. Take part in finalising employee earnings of 25%, while the state will participate at 75% of the total cost, which is a significant improvement and relief for the employmenter. At the same time, it provides for the right to grant, instead of the case so far, a refund of profits. Subsidisation and payment of advance funds for persons employed in enterprises, while only after operations have been carried out. So the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities, where the state will participate in 75% of the total income, the total cost of employment of that person. In the current regime, an employer who did not hire a disabled person paid the so-called. penalties at triple the minimum amount of earnings. In this respect, different ways of implementing employment and time limits and their implementation, since employers of the obligation to employ persons with disabilities can also be carried out in other ways, that some other transactions, trade of goods and services, etc. can be carried out between businesses, employers and employees. So all of this together is making a significant change in this system. Provisions for non-compliance with these obligations, so far the practice has shown that the provisions on foames are really too high because the advance payment is now being made, there is no penalty. Therefore, provisions on this institute are no longer necessary. At the same time and as an effect of some contribution to the budget fund are really unnecessary for the simple reason that it participates with 1% of the total cost, everything else covers the state from the budget. We believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law will be completed by the legal framework for the employment of persons with disabilities and we are confident that the positive effects of the law will continue to deliver good results on the working social integration of persons with disabilities on the labour market, as well as on society in general. These few sentences explain how much an increase in the existing law was done when through these tiny changes and additions to several of its members and I think it will facilitate and through discussion, understanding of this entire enterprise that has been made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14499	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14500	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a draft law on professional rehabilitation of employment of persons with disabilities. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in voting day will support this bill. The JS simply believes that this bill is a step forward to a series of measures that should contribute to improving, protecting and ensuring a lot of, equal enjoyment of all human rights, basic freedoms of all persons with disabilities. Promote respect for their innate dignity. Viewed globally about the situation of people with disabilities in many countries in the world, and I will mitigate that, at the very least, is not at an envious level. According to the World Health Organization, 8% to 12% of the world's population are persons with disabilities, the average is 10%. So now 650 million people live in the world with some form of disability. If we take into account their family members who are directly or indirectly affected by disability, then we can say that 25% of the world's population is, in some ways, experiencing the consequences of disability or about two billion people. Well, globally, the numbers are really devastating, and here's some data. About 20% of the poorest people on the planet make up people with disabilities, and 80% of them live in developing countries. Not about 98% of disabled children attend school, 3% is the literacy rate of adults with disabilities. People with disabilities are the poorest among the poor. Now one significant piece of information that really upsets me when I was preparing, is that there are countries in the world where 90% of children with disabilities don't survive for 20 years. Speaking about the EU, according to EU data, around 14% of people have some form of disability. Also, estimates are that in 2020, the percentage of people with disabilities from the current 14% will rise to 20%. In this connection, the UN General Assembly unanimously adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, so that was December 13, 2006. The convention opened for the signing and ratification of 30 March 2007 and the Convention entered into force on 3 May 2008, after a sufficient number of ratifications were reached. So far, the Convention has been signed by 145 countries, simply, it is necessary to say these data, and has ratified 87 UN members. Speaking of the Republic of Serbia, I will return to the law itself and simply need to say something about it. In the Republic of Serbia, this Convention, i.e. the protocol signed on 17 December 2007 and ratification carried out on 31 July 2001. What exactly does this convention that we've prescribed provide for? It provides that persons with disabilities include those who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory damage, who, in interaction with various obstacles, can interfere with their full, effective participation in society on an equal basis with others. As for our country, according to surveys, about 6.5% of Serbia's population lives with some form of disability. These studies have left children under the age of 14 and over 75, so the data says that if we take these data into account that Serbia lives between 700 and 800,000 people with some kind of disability. Really, that's very worrying. Also, people with disabilities are one of the poorest groups among poor citizens of Serbia, i.e. that the population of people with disabilities is three times higher than in the rest of the population and exceeds 60%. What are the main causes of poverty in these people now? Surely persons with disabilities, as well as other populations, are inadequate education and inability to engage in work, but this is something special about them, disability costs, social exclusion, the lack of necessary adequate support systems. We all know that, and I think at the very beginning, Unique Serbia thinks that we really need to bring all these measures to a more significant higher level. There is a significant difference in education, educational capacity between individual categories of people with disabilities. The most favourable education structure has people with sensory damage, with 52% of people with secondary education, and I'm going to say that there are no people who didn't attend school. What worries me, when we talk about this law, and professional rehabilitation and employment is the fact that in a person with physical disabilities, 15.6%, significantly less than in a person with mental disabilities, there is even a percentage of 41.7% and multiple disability, there is even 57.1%. According to the type of disability, the largest number of employees, when we talk about employees, are persons with disabilities who are very few and do not need support to carry out daily life activities, while in very small numbers are employed by persons with higher disability rates and those who need third party support. As a rule, people with disabilities are mostly employed in low-accumulated activities, it's a processing industry, so you can estimate that in those areas where they are employed, there are the least compensations. Now speaking of the very proposal for a law, the reasons for its adoption lie in the fact that it begins in January 2011, the Republic Statistics Institute does not publish data on the average income in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Accordingly, it is necessary that the provisions of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which are prescribed ways of exempting from the obligation to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities, as well as the monthly ratification of funds on behalf of participation in the financing of employees with disabilities in relation to average earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, replace the relevant data that are regularly published. In view of the fact that Article 29, which among us, you all have probably had a bill to be deleted in full, the pens can be paid by 30 in the month, and the obligation of employment in other ways is carried out until the 5th of the month. In practice, the question of the relationship between different ways of fulfilling obligations and the moment since the employer is late is raised, especially when provisions on the tax procedure and the tax administration are applied from that point on. The Law also provides for criminal provisions. I will say here that, unfortunately, according to the tax administration, only 1% of the total revenue of the budget fund is the funds achieved by the payment of the penalty. From everything I say, by erasing Article 29, as I said, the law, there are doubts in practice in terms of the relationship between different ways of carrying out obligations. The financial impact on the funds of the budget fund is practically negligible. Finally, by harmonising this law with the rules on granting state aid, the amount of funds provided for different purposes of incentive, employment of persons with disabilities and the maintenance of their employment in enterprises for professional rehabilitation is being coordinated. At the same time, it provides for the right to grant, instead of being established in the present way, a refund on the earnings of persons with disabilities. At the very end, from everything said, with the hope that we will really improve this area and move forward, we think that this law is a step forward and a Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14501	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary to Milica Dronjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14502	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Work with Associates, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities follows a law that is the National Assembly, that is, the law adopted by the National Assembly in 2009. The obligation to pass such a specific law stemmed from several ratified international conventions, a strategy to improve the position of persons with disabilities from 2007 and the 2006 Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. By this law, the state has tried to promote the principles of equal opportunities and social inclusion of people with disabilities in our economic life. The main features of this law were the introduction of a series of concrete measures for the employment of persons with disabilities, the inclusion of persons with disabilities on the labour market, the expansion of the network of service providers, the improvement of the position of enterprises engaged in professional rehabilitation and employment, and in particular that obligation of the employer, where each 50 employees were employed by one person with disabilities. The provisions of this law allow a significant number of people with disabilities to be employed. According to my knowledge, and what's said, over 9,000 of them have been given jobs for the past four years, and for another 12,000, an estimate of employment capacity and employment opportunities has been carried out. They benefit from that, both those persons themselves, because they have been given the opportunity to join the community and personal existence, and the wider social community. After four years of application, it can be said that this law has produced relatively good results, but that there are also certain legal gaps and discrepancies, which must be removed in order to make this law more effective. In fact, three significant reasons have led to access to amendments and additions to this law. The first refers to the terminology of the data published by the Republic Statistics Institute, the second is to comply with State aid control regulations, and the third is to lift the penalty. As I have already stated, several places have been subject to the terminology of legal text, since the amounts of certain donations and financial commitments have been expressed and accounted for through the notion of average profit in the economy, whose monetary value the Republic Statistics Institute has not published for a long time. That is why with these changes it introduces a second statistical parameter, i.e. average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia, thus finally being created to increase the amount of individual donations and censorships that have not been harmonised for more than two years and thus at least slightly increase the revenues of the Budgetal Rehabilitation Fund. This has a double impact on the provisions of the law. On the one hand, monthly harmonisation will be necessary in relation to how the Republic Statistics Institute publishes, and it will also affect the amount on which the obligation of employers, who are not persons with disabilities, is to pay 50% of the average earnings in carrying out their obligations. Another type of harmonisation of this law with the legal system is the proposed appeal to the State Aid Control Act and other sublaws. On the basis of the government's conclusion, a scheme of all institutions and ministries has been adopted with all regulations that must be in line with the adopted State Aid Control Act and the regulation that follows it, and this law is among them. Subsidies and earnings on the basis of which the employment obligations of persons with disabilities are now linked to the State aid scheme, so they have the right to subsidise 75% of the total cost of earnings, and the other 25% must be the participation of employers. When the employer employs a person with disabilities, without work experience, he will have the right to make up for these costs over 12 months. Besides, this will also have an impact on profit refunding. Thus far, the participation of the refunding company has been in the total amount of income contributions, which fall on the burden of employers, while now the calculation of the amount of subsidies will be based on the state aid scheme, so the state will participate with 75% of the total earnings, and 20% will participate in the employer. I would point out that, instead of refunding, which has been the case so far, it is moving on to a subsidy system, which is more favourable to companies for professional rehabilitation and facilitates their business. It is certainly a positive intention that the field of application of these acts is extended to professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, since any discrepancies in regulations and arbitrary interpretation can be used as a space for potential corruption which could show the greatest possible absence of moral norms in this area. The next change is related to the removal of pens that were required to be paid by employers who would not employ the prescribed number of disabled persons. This employment obligation itself creates a certain type of burden for employers, who have already advertised with the initiative to abolish this obligation. Unfortunately, in the current socio-economic situation and the degree of social awareness of disabled people, it will hardly be possible for another few years. However, these requirements must be taken into account, and given that there are already legal provisions on penalties for not fulfilling the obligation of employment, the removal of the penalty as other types of punishment is a completely comprehensive solution to the matter before these funds and were not large enough to have a sensitive impact on the filling of the budget fund. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if we bear in mind that these amendments and additions to the Law will be made possible to increase the refund of funds allocated to over 7,000 dinars for one month's earnings, that is to say that so will the companies involved in the employment of disabled persons, then it is clear to all of us that the adoption of these legal changes and additions will create even better conditions for the employment of persons with disabilities, thus the justification of the existence of this law will be confirmed once again in practice. The PUPS parliamentary group in voting day will be happy to support this law. I am absolutely sure that the parliamentary women's network, which has recently been formed, will also be pleased to support this law in a voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14503	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14504	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a great pleasure when we are able to pass laws that have positive effects on a large number of Serbian citizens, especially those who are most vulnerable. I mean not only this law that we are now discussing, but also those legal solutions that we have discussed in previous days, the law that will protect children from sexual abuse, then the Labour Act that we have changed to improve the status of pregnant women, the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by corruption and crime and, ultimately, this law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, which will further improve the status and status of these persons. In particular, today is about changes that are not essential, but which are significant. This law is characterized by the State Aid Act, with statistics changed since last year. This law abolishes the so-called so-called law. Penalties that were mandatory and I think that's a good solution. I've personally worked on making this law. I was head of the task force and I am pleased to say that after a few years of application, from 2009 to today, this law has shown that it has its own justification. What are the effects of this law? In the first place, thanks to him, 10,000 people with disabilities were employed and another 10,000 people were involved in various active labour market measures, subsidisation, job adjustment, additional education, training and others. In addition, every year from the date of entry into force of this law, a budget fund has been established with an average of two billion dinars, which are intended exclusively for persons with disabilities and for their approximation of the labour market. Why was it necessary to pass such a law, and why should it be consistently and strictly implemented? In addition to the problems that people with disabilities themselves face because of their handicap and a whole series of restrictions and inaccessibility in life, the problems their families have, people with disabilities have very large restrictions on access to the labour market. There's a lot of reasons. In the first place, it is prejudice, one of the deviations that the entire society has in relation to people with disabilities. My discussion today and the discussion of all colleagues must go in the direction of breaking those prejudices and promoting something that is a positive aspect of such solutions. We've heard some data that are worrying. In Serbia, 10% of the population are people with disabilities. It's somewhere between 600,000 and 700,000 citizens with a higher or lower degree of disability, with a reminder that all of us and, of course, the rest of the population can potentially come into that position. That is why we must make additional efforts to improve their position. The employment rate of people with disabilities is only about 13%, which is relative to the rest of the population where around 50%, far, far weaker. Also, the unemployment rate of people with disabilities is above 75%, which is also triple that compared to 25% in the regular population. More than 50% of people with disabilities have no elementary school, or has all the elementary school. So it's elemental and functionally illiterate. What's even worse in the whole story is that 70% of people with disabilities belong to a group of poor are below the poverty line. Therefore, one law that has many elements of positive discrimination and a certain type of coercion around which there have been a lot of comments when the law is passed is important. For the first time in one place, it defines what a person with disabilities is in terms of employment and I want to read that definition. I think it's good to remember her. So – a person with disabilities is a person who has permanent consequences of physical, sensory, mental or emotional damage or diseases that cannot be removed by treatment or medical rehabilitation. In addition to social and other barriers, they cause difficulties and restrictions in performing daily jobs and affect the employment capacity and ability to hire or maintain employment. What is the purpose of this law? On the one hand, he defined people with disabilities, on the other hand, defining who actors are in employment policy. First of all, it is the National Service, the Resort Ministry, companies that employ people with disabilities, associations of people with disabilities and, of course, persons with disabilities themselves. The aim is to improve their position on the labour market, make them more employable than it was in the previous period. This law has fully or largely achieved that effect. Today, compared to the beginning of the application of this law, we have fewer people with disabilities on the National Service records, which is a clear indication that this law has achieved that goal. The part that he caused back then, and probably today, polemics and dilemmas, is the part that refers to the coercion itself. He's always a problem, but I think there's a lot of justification in the case of people with disabilities. The employer is given the possibility, i.e. an obligation, to employ one person with disabilities on every 50 employees, with companies with up to 20 employees not having the obligation and newly established companies not having the obligation for 24 months. Since it is not realistic to expect every company to have the need to employ a disabled person, or to have an adequate person who could meet that obligation, an alternative has been given to participating in funding for persons with disabilities working in enterprises for professional rehabilitation. It is also possible to buy goods and services from companies engaged in professional rehabilitation, which employ persons with disabilities and the possibility that each employer of his or her employee may be referred to an assessment of his or her work capacity, i.e. disability, and thus fulfil such a type of obligation. The experience so far has shown that it is quite enough, and that on the other hand what is the key change in this law is the abolition of so-called. Penal, there was a misjudgement at that moment. As someone who was working on making that law then, along with my associates, I accept that part of responsibility and I think these foams have proved unnecessary. The idea was to provide a more strict application of the other legal provisions. In the end, I'd like to say a few things about determining work ability. So far, people with disabilities, when it comes to their status in society, have mostly been treated in the sense that the degree of their disability is determined. No one, until this law, has ever considered what happens to their remaining ability to work. This law focuses on the rest of the work capacity and on identifying the work capacity that can ensure access to the labour market. The national service, as one of the important actors, is adapted to this law and what is good, the National Service has a special centre for professional rehabilitation and for the employment of people with disabilities dealing with this problem. Each individual branch of the National Service has a specialised consultant who consults these people and through various active measures, individual conversations and training on the labour market, assists individuals and individuals with disabilities seeking employment. What is the problem to think about and what may be one of the challenges for the current ministry and minister is the status of a company that deals with the employment of persons with disabilities and their professional rehabilitation. All these companies, and there are between 40 and 50 of them, have serious business problems, have a tendency to re-establish the participation of state capital in them and thus want to get the status of protected enterprises, which has some justification. What is necessary is to professionalise the management of these companies, because objectively these companies, with all the restrictions they have, have one privileged market status. Thanks to this law, they have large subsidies from the state and in terms of profits and equipment, preparing jobs for people with disabilities to be able to work effectively in them. It seems to me that one of the great challenges is to consolidate these companies, reduce their losses, and thus increase the efficiency and the entire system that we are talking about today. Finally, I think that today's discussion and amendments to this law will be another step to help people with disabilities, to understand their position, the need and one knowledge, that this remaining part of their working ability is actually a large social and state resource that has not been used adequately. In many cases, it has been shown that people with disabilities have far more efficiency and productivity in work precisely because on the other hand they have certain handicaps, starting with the fact that the situation is a large number of them related to either the wheelchair, or sitting down and the environment itself gives them the opportunity to be far more efficient in different jobs and activities, especially when it comes to administrative work or computer work and the like. As a society, we must use that resource and correct their status, help them and their families, and continue to strictly implement the provisions of this law that has proved to be very effective. Certainly our MP group will support these changes. We'll vote for these changes in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14505	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14506	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Minister, the honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we read this bill, it seems at first glance a fairly socially responsible bill, but only on the first ball, only on the first reading, and if we do not put this law in context with the basic law from which it arises, if we do not put it in the context of the life in which we live and if we ignore how much this law relies on the complete, clear and transparent situation in which society and state are. I would really not agree with the previous speakers that this law represents an improvement compared to earlier solutions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, precisely because this law is a little wider and above all because we read the explanation given when a law is proposed, so we did so this time too. It is clear to me that he wants to raise that awareness in society and improve the position of people with disabilities and that their lives are greatly improved. However, it is not enough just to wish, it is not enough to have good intentions. I wouldn't even question the writer and legislator of this bill regarding their good faith and good intentions. So, in that sense, I don't want to talk about this bill, to disabling someone's goodwill in advance. However, we do not have the right as MPs to just fly over a particular bill and not to realize all its shortcomings and not to propose any better solutions, which would significantly improve the existing law and in fact, thus produce a far better effect than the one that will be achieved if the law in this form proposed and strengthened, or voted by the assembly majority. I would disagree that these solutions are far better than the existing ones, in the existing law. For what reason? There are also mentions of subsidies, mentioning pens, mentioning standards, mentioning some institutes that exist in the previous law, and now being proposed in these changes and additions. However, it is not enough just to establish a change in the institute, but to see in what sense these solutions from the previous and change. You change your pens, you wipe your pens. You've decided on a state subsidy and that might be a good solution at first sight. But you forget one fact, which is that in the first two months, this country has managed to reach a truly enormous sum of 35 billion dinars of the budget deficit. It is far more than what was foreseen by the Budget Law, and at this rate the budget will grow to a total of 200 billion by the end of the year in terms of deficits. So that's the 200 billion this country is going to spend more than that amount it predicted. Now look here in this bill, you're talking about subsidies, to what extent you're actually going to strengthen the position of people with disabilities, to what extent this country is going to finance it, all with some good intentions and in good faith. But somehow you forgot to what extent this country was overindebted, to what extent this public debt reached 63% at the end of December 2012. So, with such a public debt and with such a budget deficit, which grows from day to day, from month to month, you will hardly succeed in all these subsidies that you have drawn up and in terms of persons with disabilities to realize. Now let's take a look at what's going on with those penals. You forgot one small fact, you simply crossed the entire burden of hiring persons with disabilities in the economy, and that you left one bad solution in the law, which excluded state authorities from the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities. So the state authorities are not obliged to hire these people. I would like to ask a question - do you know, Mr. Minister, how many employees in the Republika Srpska Assembly are persons with disabilities? That's just inadmissible. You really kind of missed out on the little door to explain the situation about how you're going to measure all these business commitments with a republican profit average. You're not gonna take that average in terms of profit in the economy, you're gonna take what's being earned on a republican level. In doing so, you're keeping one truly unhappi fact that profits in the economy are about 24% lower than they are in the public sector, in institutions, in public enterprises. Therefore, there is also some disproportion in terms of what should be the base on which certain corporate obligations are counted, because if the economy has certain obligations, it should be taken into account in this respect what profits are made in that economy. Otherwise, it is interesting that the Republic Statistics Institute does not even publish average incomes in the economy, but simply publishes one piece of information on the average republican income. It says enough about how much there is no willingness to get more serious into the essence of the relationship between the economy, the public sector, the institution, the state authorities and at all to publicly promote the one who creates values and the one who pays taxes and the one who carries the enormous burden of creating new social values, which is just business. With this bill, you allegedly wanted to strengthen that social awareness about the relationship with people with disabilities. How did you think you were doing that if you didn't change those standards, you didn't explain the standards, you didn't specify the standards on which to assess the working ability of people with disabilities? Without clear and concrete criteria and standards, without a clear procedure in which work remaining capabilities are determined, you continue to force and promote a segregation. As much as you're not in the light of the law, you've stated that segregation is your real intention with the bill. Even in the second-degree procedure, the decision-making commission has no clear contact with people with disabilities in order to assess whether these persons are able to work, whether they have any more work skills. This is of paramount importance, because in this case, if people do not have it according to the commission's decision, the person has the only chance to get a job at some work centres. What is it if it isn't the isolation of not integration, but the isolation and segregation of people with disabilities? It is therefore very important to point out that the bill does not in itself mean anything unless we put this bill in a far broader context than what you have actually stated in the light of the Bill's proposal. When we talk about people with disabilities, we can't leave out the fact that there's no going through the idea of reforming the pension system. We still have a very high percentage, over 24% of people who have aged on disability pension. When it comes to the fact that only 57% of workers have obtained the right to retirement and 22% have a family pension, in which case we can spot a pretty bad fact, which is that those who have actually achieved some working time working up to a certain number of years and in this case have done it really small compared to others who expect this country to be a particular incentive, so it is in that sense that it is being subsidized, to help something called disability pension, something called early retirement. This percentage is somewhat smaller compared to earlier trends, but it far exceeds the economic capacity of this country to bring all these state aids that you have provided for such well-intentioned laws and in some way imposed. One more thing is very important to note in this bill. In addition to other shortcomings, you have somehow forgotten to increase efficiency in the control of the budget fund for the professional rehabilitation of disabled people. We don't have a clear idea about that. There is no transparency in how funds from that budget are spent and whether those funds end up somewhere in that bulky budget, in that budget that apparently only generates the budget deficit, or if we have some clear points and a clear overview of the situation. I remind you of this because it is very important to work on professionally rehabilitating people with disabilities. As you actually expect the integration of these persons if, in terms of professional training, school facilities are not given certain support, not promoted, not given some input that will make it easier for these entrepreneurs and businesses to employ people with disabilities. Indeed, the problem is in the application of rather inaccurate legal solutions, and the problem is that with such laws, and this is not the only one that has arrived on Parliament's agenda, you show a certain kind of social responsibility, a certain kind of humanism, and that all of this remains at some surface level, and when it really starts to realize these laws and when it really starts to happen, that some legal solutions and apply in practice are faced with various obstacles and then it is realized that it is not that simple and that it is not something real. So it's real life that will show to what extent you've been human with this bill of law. A real life that is quite harsh based on these indicators based on a report by the Fiscal Council and based on a report by the State Auditor on the functioning and operation of public enterprises. We can see from this already that this country has serious problems, that this country has not one step away from the recession, that it does nothing in terms of strengthening and improving the economic situation, and that in this barata with such solutions as state aid, subsidies, such as social sanctification, social responsibility. There's no social responsibility if you give people false hope, there's no humanism if you know that what you wrote here you won't be able to realize. It's not humanism. It's Mr. Minister's hypocrisis. Unfortunately, you should go out and tell the public – we have proposed this law, but we have done nothing in terms of significantly improving the Employment Act for people with disabilities. We haven't done anything in the sense of introducing clear and concrete spending flows concerning people with disabilities and we haven't done anything to change the position of these people. It is that we have called on the Convention, and the Convention on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities is in some danger, and that is Article 27, which clearly states that the entire state structure, the whole society is responsible for the employment of persons with disabilities and that they cannot be out of it because the same state authorities have an obligation, as does the economy. Therefore, every time you go to parliament with a law like this, you might want to look around. It was recommended that you read the Fiscal Council report. I think everything would be a lot clearer for you. You know, there's this strange circumstance, which is that your ministry is called the Labour and Social Assistance Act. Simply, work and social assistance are not categories to be mentioned together. Is there not some people's wisdom, who does not fear hunger? So it's important to call some things a real name, and it's important that we really be honest about it, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14507	The next person registered for the word is MP Meho Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14508	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mr. Krkobic, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try very briefly, using the time that belongs to the SDPS parliamentary group as an authorised representative, to point out some important newspapers and by me, and by us from the SDPS, good changes and additions to this law that is before us today and to visit some of the problems that exist, and when it comes to persons with disabilities and their position in our society, in relation to respect for their rights in general. In this proposal for a law in which amendments and additions were made, it should be recalled once again, the law we had in this assembly, which was adopted in 2009, was deleted from that famous obligation in Article 29. The law that an employer who does not employ persons with disabilities, in accordance with Article 24. The law, pays, as popularly referred to as foames, or certain penalties. Now in this proposal to amend and supplement the Law, which is before us today, it has been found that an employer who does not employ persons with disabilities must pay at a monthly level a 50% salary per employee for each person with disabilities, which he has not employed in the special Budget Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The amount of the subsidy received by the employer is also changed when the person with disabilities is employed indefinitely, or permanently, without working experience. This subsidy per year was at a minimum profit level, and in this proposal the law is increasing and will amount to 75% of the total profit costs with contributions, but no more than the total minimum earnings. The next change, according to us from the SDPS, is significant for the company, for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, receives a monthly income subsidy for each person with disabilities up to 75% of total income costs with contributions, but no more than 50% of average earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. So far, I would remind you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, these companies have been entitled to a monthly refund on the name of participation in earnings of 50% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. There are some other amendments discussed by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jovan Krkobibic, which are needed to comply with the law on state aid, as well as to bring statistics into line. There is no doubt that the competent ministry, the labour ministry, employment and social policy will try to find the best solutions through the proposed changes. However, to be honest, we in the SDPS share pessimism in terms of achieving significant results. Why do I say that? People's life problems, people with disabilities are very large, and the state of Serbia is very poor. There's something called a constant lack of financial resources. That's the problem this ministry is facing too, that's the problem facing those who are the most vulnerable, the poorest, but that's our reality. In the previous assembly, I was president of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy, Combat and Disabilities Protection and Social Affairs. I've had a lot of conversations with people with disabilities, as well as with representatives of their associations. There are huge problems these citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia face. The disabled person support system is not sufficiently developed, and this should be highlighted, in municipalities and cities. Since 2007, no programmes have been adopted locally to implement a state strategy in this area to help disabled people. Better coordination and co-operation is needed, i.e. the integration of programmes between ministries, the National Employment Service and employers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We also need to respect and integrate the measures proposed by the Associations of Persons with Disabilities, Independent State Authorities, NGOs. In a report by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind you, it is noted that certain employers are playing a law-based obligation to employ persons with disabilities by encouraging employees to initiate a procedure to determine the degree of disability in front of the competent authorities, in order for employers to meet the formal so-called. a legal obligation. In the Citizens' Protector's report, I would like to stress, under one, that action plans for implementation of the strategy, under two, develop new measures of professional rehabilitation, qualifications in line with labour market needs and, three, to improve the education system in relation to persons with disabilities, as well as other measures. In Serbia, it should be stressed all the time. Today there are also living, registered, according to the data available to our institutions, 700,000 people with disabilities, of which 300,000 are aged 15-65. The unemployment rate of disabled persons is very low and is 13%, as it was a few years ago, down to 6%. Employment of persons with disabilities in Europe, especially in countries that are members of the International Labour Organisation, is regulated in several ways. I'll remind you. The first is the quota system. The employer's obligation to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities in relation to the number of employees in a particular company. Cash penalties are also prescribed, if companies do not do so, these funds go to certain dedicated funds. Some countries instead of fines predict benefits for employers if they hire people with disabilities. Other countries have defined that employment of persons with disabilities and obligations of state and state institutions and employers is prescribed in anti-discrimination laws. Employers are instructed to provide certain conditions relating to the specific needs of persons with disabilities. The third group of countries has laws that have so-called laws. The power of retention. What's this about? Employers are obliged to retain workers who experience certain injuries at work during work. They also oblige employers to participate in the early observation of the so-called. disability and bring rehabilitation programs. As you can see from these three models, we can conclude that most countries have laws and national programmes. The problem is not in the laws, this is the case with us, but in the application of these laws, as well as that in most countries people with disabilities live on the edge of existence or social assistance. The problem is not only about the state of Serbia. It is not something we face, but it is certain that in poor countries, no matter how hard we try to show Serbia as a rich country, we are nevertheless a poor society and a poor state, this problem is greater than in countries with a high social standard. At the very end, the only thing I can say for sure is that it can only be better when our economy and the recovery economy, when there are more jobs and more money. The MPs of the SDPS support the amendments to this law, because the common interest, I believe, is to find the best legal solutions and in every way help people who have the most difficulty, and you will agree with me that the person with the disability is the hardest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14509	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14510	Thank you, Mr. President. And this bill falls under those laws that affect, directly or indirectly, a large number of Serbian citizens, as did the previous law we talked about at the previous session. More than 700,000 people with disabilities live in Serbia. Estimates say 70% of them live in poverty, so people with disabilities are the most vulnerable group in Serbia today. This poverty is due certainly to the unemployment of these persons, but also to the additional material burdens of families that have members, persons with disabilities, because of all other types of support, not to say care, rehabilitation, providing accessibility for a member with disabilities. Since I think it was in 2007, when Serbia signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and an option protocol that goes with the Convention, it can be said freely that there has been major progress in legal regulation in Serbia, i.e. that we have adopted, and this Assembly, on a proposal from different ministries and ministers, adopted a series of very important laws when it comes to this area. There is, above all, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, as well as this Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which we are talking about today. However, there are a whole series of other laws, for example, the Social Protection Act, the Family Act, or as we call it the Colloquial Family Code, where the whole series of provisions refers to this category of population. So laws have been passed that should allow the uninterrupted inclusion of people with disabilities in Serbian society. Unfortunately, in real life, members of this numerous and by the needs of a variety of groups face obstacles that suggest that application of the principle of equal opportunities depends not only on good laws, so, as I have said, we have passed a lot of good laws, but their application and real life are something, unfortunately, quite another. I'm going to remind all of us together, I think it was July of last year, when people with disabilities, or persons with disabilities, who are employed in the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities, are called the Kragujevac company, that they strike hunger for days and that hunger strike was a protest that they were not paid eight personal incomes, i.e. these workers did not even exercise their other rights based on work. It was an event that was supposed to remind all of us, I hope it reminds us that in this area a lot of things are still messy and that we have laws, but they're not exactly fully applied. As the strike ended, I must say that it lasted days, that the ministry did not respond particularly, and that it had to involve the Citizens' Protector and it is in his report, so I am telling the truth, and that, only when the Citizens' Protector got involved in this problem has the problem solved. In May 2010, this Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, under which all employers who have more than 20 employees are obliged to employ a certain number of people with disabilities, is said to be able to respect this quota system, so the size of the company depends on how many persons with disabilities will be employed. Here, several of my colleagues praised both this law and the amendments and additions to this law. I'm not going to praise him, I'm not going to embarrass him, but I have, like other colleagues, data that the National Disabilities Organization, as well as statistics, are saying that a certain shift has been made when it comes to hiring people with disabilities and that during the economic crisis there has been an increase in the employment of these people. Therefore, a shift has been made and there are many positive things thanks to this applicable law. As for these changes and additions, there seems to be a dozen changes and additions. Some members refer to compliance with some other laws, and that is, above all, the Statistics Act and the State Aid Act. However, there are also some fundamental changes, such as Article 4 which virtually deletes Article 29 of the existing law, i.e. to abolish the obligation of the employer to pay the so-called “employee”. criminal pedals, unless they meet their obligation in time, whether it's by hiring a disabled person or by investing in a budget fund. We think that maybe, and I can see that the organisations of people with disabilities feel that this is good, because before statistics say that only 1% of the money that is in the budget fund is paid in this way, so I hope that you are right and we keep the word ministry, and that's what people with disabilities need, because you're practically guaranteed that this budget fund won't feel this change, if what you're saying is true. We'll talk about the other changes when there's a debate in detail. I have noted that almost all parliamentary groups have submitted practically identical amendments, thanks to the fact that the National Disabilities Organization has addressed all parliamentary groups with its amendments, and then we have all submitted the same amendments, so I hope that they will accept them, because you agree on certain things of all parliamentary groups, and that is a very rare matter in this room. It should also be said that when you have already entered changes and additions to this law, perhaps you should have made changes to some more members. You didn't do that now. I hope you come back with this law, so you'll do it. Today, a colleague spoke about it, which is mainly from the private sector. They detest and say "the employment burden of persons with disabilities is mostly on the shoulders of the private sector", which will say state-owned enterprises and public enterprises do not employ people with disabilities. What else was there to change? Article 3 of the existing law does not make it clear that public undertakings also have this obligation. Article 3(3), which states who is all employers under this law, states the Republic of Serbia for employees of state bodies, an autonomous province for employees of rural authorities and local self-government units for employees of local self-government units. Those local self-governments, believe me, are many today in Serbia, which would somehow avoid the application of this law, they explain it and call on this member, where it does not appear clear that, perhaps I am now entering a legal problem, that the public enterprise is not a direct body of local self-government, with me knowing that there are direct users of the budget and indirect, but this is a visible problem. It's about the law itself. So there could be an explanation, precisely because of that irresponsible local self-government. Because if local self-government and people who are in power in a certain local self-government have good intentions and want to get involved in this whole process, then they wouldn't care if it's in the law at all, but because of those irresponsible, it would be more specific. I would not exactly point out that local self-government as a particularly bad one, because I know there are other successes, however, it could be read at the end of October of last year that the city of Subotica paid more than seven million dinars to the budget fund for professional rehabilitation and support for the employment of disabled people. Now, of course, a man wonders how the city of Subotica got to such a great debt? What's that really about? It's a payment, because cultural institutions in the city and preschool institutions haven't taken advantage of any of the opportunities on time. So they didn't hire a person with disabilities, and there's a facility that has more than 20 employees, and they didn't make a payment to this budget fund in time, so there's probably a fine and a penalty. Then there's a pretty bad story, that budget users in one city rely on their city budget, and they're so casual and don't carry out their obligations, which instead will pay that fine. So, basically, you didn't punish that organ, you punished the whole town. What is the biggest problem, which certainly people with disabilities point out, is the lack of quality support measures, i.e. An obstacle-relieving service on a local level. The local level is the one that removes the real obstacles. So what's pointed out is that it's still an insufficiently accessible environment. You have even in Belgrade when a reconstruction is carried out, I say even in Belgrade because it is the capital and there should be a slightly different situation, because first of all there is much more money than some other local self-government in Serbia, but you still have when the street is reconstructed not to predict ramps or accessibility for people with disabilities, i.e. A wheelchair. Also, public transport in all cities remains unadjusted, poor information and communication of people with disabilities about their rights remains inaccessible and poorly adapted jobs, and what is most difficult remains the fully undeveloped system of work and personal assistants. That's what the Social Protection Act predicts. When the law was passed, much was said about how the law now regulates and predicts personal and working assistants. However, it was very poor in life. Again, the economic crisis is cited, but when it comes to these things, we should all be ashamed that there is no money for these things in the budget. You will see, when you look at all of our amendments, that a large number of amendments are precisely relevant to focusing more money from the budget fund on employers, i.e. instructions and subsidies to adapt jobs and to remove obstacles, as well as to hire personal assistants. What I would also take the opportunity to talk about, is that the big problem in hiring people with disabilities is actually their current education structure that doesn't meet market needs, or -- it's demand, and the other is supply. About half of registered unemployed persons with disabilities at the National Employment Service have only primary school or unfinished primary school, and thousands have secondary and special vocational education, according to outdated curricula and programmes. As an example, I've been looking into it, and it's also today, that one of the educational profiles for blind and undersighted children at school for students of impaired vision is the educational profile of PTT traffic, the educational profile of a TTP manipulator at grade III. So, in Internet times, informative and communicative technologies, we still train students to be TTP manipulators. To know what it is, the TTP manipulant is a telephone player, teleprinter and radio operator. I'm asking you -- where are these kids going to get a job when they finish this high school? The Law on the Foundations of an education and education system, which is relatively new, for the first time introduced unconditional educational inclusion and guaranteed equal rights to education for its children, including children with disabilities in development. It seems to me that this is the most picturesque example of having a fantastic law, and as a state and as a ministry, you haven't bothered to provide support measures. Therefore, the law provides for the right to additional educational support at all levels of education. I'm talking about the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. However, schools, parents, teachers and, of course, children are in trouble because of the absence of continued and permanent support measures. You don't have pedagogical assistants to work with students on individual educational programs. Believe me, local self-government often wants to solve this problem, but then the question arises: who is funding a teaching assistant? No personal assistants. There is no permanent education of teachers, inter-resor committees, and besides, parents. So, education is missing. In all schools there is a lack of teaching resources and problems related to inclusion are, again, such an illustrative example when you pass a law that should change a lot, and after that nothing, but you just tried to solve some problem quality, and that is primarily the educational structure of people with disabilities and people who are supposed to be involved in the labour market tomorrow, and then it comes down to good will and much more problems than it was before that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14511	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14512	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, we are all aware that the problem of high unemployment is one of the main burning problems in the Republic of Serbia. When we talk specifically about the unemployment of people with disabilities, we all know that the picture is even worse, not to say sadder. Therefore, we from the Union of Dukes Hungarians and in mid-2009, when this esteemed home, the National Assembly discussed, and adopted, then a brand-new, Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, stressed that it was necessary to regulate this area, that we had legal void in this field, in order to finally affect the real improvement of the situation in this field. As we know, the basic objective of this law on whose amendments and additions we are discussing today is actually to increase employment, to get to the highest level of employment of persons with various types of disability. The Union of Duchy Hungarians, of course, supports all types of positive, affirmative actions directed towards more employable facial groups. We are all aware that, when we talk about those persons who fall into a more difficult employment category, these are most often, in most cases, people who, due to their health conditions, varying kinds of disability, find employment extremely difficult today. The essence of this law is that the measures taken, in accordance with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, target this particular group of people who are most difficult to hire and whose position, therefore, both the economic position and their daily life, is extremely difficult. We of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians believe that the issue of social inclusion of persons with disabilities and social inclusion of these people is one of the basic issues and it should mean respect for all of us for fundamental human rights. We should all remember in this place that the right to work is guaranteed to everyone, so people with disabilities should also have the exact same rights and opportunities to exercise these rights as all other citizens of our country. So, we will agree here that in mid-2009, among other things, the adoption of this law, and the subsequent adoption of other laws, as mentioned here by the Social Protection Act, etc., that as much as the right framework for the achievement and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities is provided, however, when we ask these people and when we look at the situation on the ground, it is clear to us that there are still huge problems and that members of this particularly sensitive social group face daily issues, problems in life. It simply makes it impossible for them, does not allow them to enjoy their rights and to realize them and to really reach that desired level of social and social inclusion. The draft law on the agenda, which we are discussing today, is in fact the amendments and additions to the mentioned Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. As I said, the objective of this basic law, which we are changing with certain parts now, is to really encourage employment and job security for people with various kinds of disabilities in the right way. Why, however, are the problems on the ground and in real life survived, regardless of what the law exists, for example, an adequate normative framework? He, and this proves and now suggested changes and additions, simply as if it wasn't complete, so it's not ideal. We then, in April 2009, brought something completely new in our legal system, but after a few years of its application it was seen that it was not complete and that individual normative solutions proposed in this law simply as if in real, real life did not contribute to an effective system and permanent solution to these problems. The position of persons with disabilities and their permanent social inclusion actually depends, simply, on the support they receive from their immediate environment, both through social and health care systems, so, of course, through the education system, including what we are discussing and what is most important, employment. The permanent objective of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is the employment of these people, and thus the improvement of all aspects of life for people with disabilities. What is significant, these were the largest newspapers that we introduced exactly four years ago into our legal system, is the regulation of the obligation to provide both space and adequate technical and other equipment for working training and the work of persons with disabilities, and all of this is in line with their mental and physical capabilities, needs, abilities, but, of course, with their wishes, if possible to align them. As we have heard from several previous speakers, these laws, in fact, require the employment of persons with disabilities, and it refers to all companies, public administration authorities, and mentioned local self-government, public services, banks, financial organisations and many other legal and natural persons who, according to law, have that minimum, or at least 20 employees. It is planned that, by applying these relevant provisions of the law, social inclusion is made possible for a much greater number of people with disabilities, since, of course, besides the development of efficient systems and support and protection services mentioned, it is essential, whenever possible, to ensure as much independence, rehabilitation and employment as possible. Unfortunately, a few years after the application of this law, but I must reiterate, and a few years after the application of the new Social Protection Act, there is knowledge that the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and all others involved in this topic, do not consistently apply, to try to formulate it finely. In the field, it happens that many employers have a problem with this obligation, that they are not happy that there is this obligation, that they are reluctant to hire people with disabilities. The reality is that many employers, so to say, would formally fulfil this obligation, they actually send their workers to various commissions to get a paper on how they might have some small kind of disability. They're being sent to determine the degree of disability, so that they, for example, will formally respect this obligation, which is actually an act of this law. Unfortunately, what the previous colleague also spoke of, regardless of the obligation, in many parts of the Republic of Serbia, even in larger cities, without talking about smaller municipalities and settlements, simply did not eliminate these obstacles to increased employment of people with disabilities. There are many, many obstacles. I'll just mention some of them. One is that there are simply no adequate support systems for people with disabilities. We all know of other physical or technical obstacles to the inaccessibility of the jobs of various companies, including the institution, public transport is inadequate. What's a little bit of a talk, which is the same reality, is that the vast majority of people with disabilities are not qualified enough, or they don't have adequate expertise. Namely, as I mentioned by law whose changes and additions are mentioned today that we are discussing, it is, indeed, a normative framework for removing the mentioned systemic obstacles to a more normal and easier life for people with disabilities. However, because of the problem during the implementation or application of this law, the real sad picture is that it does not improve the independent life of people with disabilities and social inclusion. So their involvement is still not adequately resolved in the desired way. We at the SVM Parliament Club are truly convinced that if, let's say, the National Employment Service were more engaged in this problem, if more worked, the National Service at harmonising offers and demand in the labour market, as well as if even more worked to organise appropriate requalification programmes, retraining or training of unemployed people who are really looking for jobs, in practice, would actually contribute to the greater employment of these people. The most significant changes and additions that are actually ahead of us and which we are discussing are, one of them is the obligation of the employer that if he does not hire a disabled person, he must pay 50% of the average salary per employee in the Republic of Serbia for every person with disabilities he does not employ, and he has this obligation. It should be stressed that the funds that will be collected in this way means that the money collected is mainly used to encourage employment, professional rehabilitation, finance for persons with disabilities employed in enterprises for professional rehabilitation or employment of persons with disabilities who work, for example, in social enterprises, organisations. So this asset and this amount certainly have a positive impact on raising the level of employment of people with disabilities that we certainly support. The next significant paper or amendment of this law is actually to comply with the rules on granting state aid, which means that the amount of funds provided for the appropriate purposes is to encourage employment of persons with disabilities, but also to maintain their employment, employment of these persons in enterprises for professional rehabilitation. At the same time, these provide the right to subsidies. According to this, companies for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities are granted a grant to earning persons with disabilities in those enterprises, up to 75% of the total cost of earning with the corresponding contributions to compulsory social security, but with no more than 50% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia. This is how strict state aid rules are introduced which, hopefully, are the legislative plan, i.e. the legislator, and we hope that this will happen on the ground, that this will allow full control of the allocation of funds and thus the spending of these State aid funds. In the light of this proposal for a law, or proposed amendments and additions, we can read that the costs of the employer were incurred as a result of the obligation to employ persons with disabilities. They're increasing by about 7,000 dinars per month. If, however, the employer decides in an alternative way, or you make your commitment to make your participation in the financing of persons with disabilities of employees in enterprises for professional rehabilitation or social enterprise or organisation as mentioned. This solution is certainly more acceptable than the current one that was seven thousand less. Since the basic purpose of adopting this regulation is to first provide adequate existential conditions for persons with disabilities themselves. The point we really need to be careful about is that employers fulfil their obligations under this law primarily by hiring people with disabilities. More specifically, it is important to balance real employment with alternative ways of fulfilling their obligations in favour of establishing a working relationship with people with disabilities, which would make this proposal the most favourable, profitable option for employers. Because if in some way this balance were to be violated, or if those employers were to decide more about alternative ways, rather than really hiring people with disabilities, then they would simply lose the meaning of the whole law. The goal of bringing both the first and these changes is to make sure that as many people with disabilities as possible enter the world of work, to be employed and to integrate into social flows. Of course, SVM will support this proposal in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14513	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 80, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, My rules of procedure determines a regular break of one hour. The work continues at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14514	We're going back to work. The word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Jovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14515	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin my presentation, I would like to remind everyone that today the International Day is a person with autism, a person with between 2,000 and 3,000 in Serbia. Unfortunately, there are no accurate data and these people are among the most sensitive groups in people with disabilities. A major shift in the clearance of rights and the status of persons with disabilities, when it comes to employment, passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Its adoption took the first steps to include creating the necessary conditions for the labour-activation integration of persons with disabilities on the labour market and the arrangements for employment and professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, in line with international and national regulations and labour market flows. The strategic documents and laws of the Republic of Serbia contain basic guidelines for improving the quality of life of the OSI and for the first time put people with disabilities in a level playing field with other citizens, clearly showing the country's focus on understanding people with disabilities within the social model of disability, stressing the community's obligations to ensure respect for human rights of persons with disabilities in all areas of individual and community life. The question of hiring people with disabilities is one of the more important when we talk about their involvement in society. The 2002 Madrid Declaration highlights employment as the key to social inclusion, as one of the most important ways to combat social isolation and independent life and dignity. The application of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is characterised by two characteristic processes, in addition to employment and employment of the OSI and a slight reduction in the number of people with disabilities, differences in the intensity of these processes are the result of parallel employment processes and registrations on the National Employment Service records, the achievement of the employment obligation, and it was influenced by the dynamicisation of the labour market for people with disabilities. The data we have on people with disabilities in Serbia is very scarce. There are no databases that would systematicize this problem and point to the true state of affairs, but they are assumed to be more than 700,000. Of that, 300,000 are working age. The employment rate is extremely low and is around 13%, while the National Employment Service records about 20,000 people with disabilities. From the moment of application of the law to January 2012, about 10,000 people with disabilities were employed, which is a major advance from 200 and 300 persons with disabilities at an annual level in the pre-law period. In a sample of OSI employees, the most represented are persons with sensory disabilities, then persons less likely to be distracted in intellectual development and persons with different types of disability in the category remained, therefore, different types of damage and functional limitations. Adjustment of the working environment is required for 57.7% of OSI. A third of the jobs were already adjusted when the OSIs got a job. Other employers adapted jobs and work processes to the needs of people with disabilities only after their employment. One third of people with disabilities think they also need job support. Taking into account all the positive effects that have been achieved so far through the application of this law, it is necessary to amend some of the members of the law and to bring them into line with the legislation that has been adopted, or amended, since the time of adoption of this law, and for these reasons, there is a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Under the current Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of OSI, the employer is obliged to hire one person with disabilities if there are 20 to 49 workers, if he has 50 employees two and with each 50 employees a new person with disabilities. If there are no persons with disabilities of certain skills and qualifications in terms of employment, employers of the obligation to employ persons with disabilities can perform participation in the financing of persons with disabilities in the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, or social enterprise and organisation, the payment of funds of no less than 50% of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia in the budget fund for professional rehabilitation and the promotion of employment of persons with disabilities, or the implementation of the financial obligation under the business and technical co-operation contract, the purchase of products, or the provision of services with a professional rehabilitation undertaking and the employment of persons with disabilities worth of 20 average earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the payment of a pension fund for professional rehabilitation and the promotion of services with a minimum amount of income established in accordance with each person's employment. The funds achieved in this way will be used for active employment policies for persons with disabilities, or for the pursuit of professional rehabilitation activities, so to encourage employment of persons with disabilities. The control of payments shall be carried out by the tax administration in accordance with the Regulation on how to monitor the enforcement of the employment obligations of persons with disabilities and the means of proof of enforcement and the obligation. Direct, or indirect budget users, who are paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, fulfil the obligation of employment of the OSI by identifying funds in the budget for the current year, for the purpose of refunding OSI employees in professional rehabilitation and employment companies, for improving the working conditions of production programmes, etc., but are obliged to employ, if possible, persons with disabilities. Since January 2011, in line with the strategy of developing official statistics of the Republic of Serbia, there has been no publication of the average income in the economy of the Republic of Serbia and until now, data from December 2010, it needs to be replaced by data published regularly, which is the average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia, which means gross earnings, i.e. the amount containing net earnings, taxes and contributions paid from earnings to employees. The employer fulfilled the employment obligation if he participates in funding the earnings of persons with disabilities of 50% of the average salary per employee in the Republic of Serbia, according to the latest published data. The obligation to pay the penalty, which so far existed, is also lifted. So, unless the employer fulfils the obligation to pay, he will not pay the fine of the salary and the equivalent penalty for the period during which they have not made a commitment, but only the amount at the monthly level, so the average earnings per employee with the corresponding interest, which will positively affect employers who have not made a timely commitment as a solution. The revenues achieved so far by collecting the penalty in the total revenue of the budget fund were negligible and amounted to only 1%, and any uncertainty about how the payment was made will be abolished. After the adoption of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment, the Act on State Aid Control and the Regulation on rules for granting state aid, which is a regulated way, the height and rules for granting state aid to all entities and at all levels. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also reached conclusions in order to align the rules on granting state aid, as well as the adoption of a list of state aid schemes and the deadline for their harmonisation. It was December 31, 2012. As a result, certain provisions of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation must comply with established rules on State aid and prescribed State aid schemes for the employment of disabled persons. State aid for the employment of persons with disabilities can be granted in the form of a profit subsidy, which must not be higher than 75% of the eligible costs, or cannot exceed the amount of minimum earnings in accordance with the labour rules which are laid down that the employer cannot pay less than minimum earnings, while the earning of persons with disabilities alone is not limited to the amount of minimum earnings. State aid may be in the light of compensation, additional costs of employment of persons with disabilities during the period during which a person with disabilities is employed and relating to the costs of adjusting the business space, staffing costs only during the period when they provide assistance to disabled workers, the costs of adapting or purchasing equipment, or the purchase and verification of accounting programmes used by disabled workers, including tailored or auxiliary technological equipment, as well as for the costs of building, installing or expanding the economic operator and the installation of equipment if the user of State aid is conducting protected employment, as well as all costs of administration and transport, which are directly due to the employment of disabled workers. What is a positive effect of all the proposals that are part of the Amendment Law is that implementation of them does not require additional budget provision. The power to grant funds to economic operators will be governed in accordance with the application of State aid rules which will be directed to those entities who need assistance and for their most needed purposes. The aim of the whole law, which is to include more persons with disabilities in the world of work and to engage in life flows, will be executed in time, primarily by their employment, because it will be the most favourable variant of employers, given that the employee earns his income. The funds used to encourage employment are returned to the economy. On the other hand, the number of people with disabilities is increasing. It also provides the right to subsidies, not to refund earnings for the OSI, which has been paid in the same amount since December 2010, and is certainly granted State aid to provide adequate existential conditions, but also improves the working conditions in companies for professional rehabilitation and employment of the OSI. The fact that this bill is again on the agenda of this Parliament says that care for people with disabilities is permanent and that legislation is changing in the direction of rights-based laws rather than social protection. Community concern is an alternative to institutional care and home isolation and hiding. Raising employers' awareness of the needs and employment opportunities of the OSI is a long-term process. There are employers who employ OSIs and when they are not forced, who act socially responsible and represent a policy of equal opportunities. Experiences from different companies show that people with disabilities can be productive and by example contribute to the greater creativity of other employees. By adapting the work space to disabled persons, it also contributes to the greater security of other employees. In order to be able to prove themselves a good employee, they first need to provide working conditions, enable access to work and adapt the content and manner of doing business, which is contained in horizontal state aid measures. Job adaptations do not have to be expensive, as this can be achieved by restructuring job requirements and modifying working hours, as well as by using assistive technologies. A positive impact in the application of the law is also reflected in the expansion of the positive experience of employers on the performance of the OSI and the profit from their employment. Employment and inclusion in the working community reduces the subjective sense of discrimination in people with disabilities. The affirmative measures for employment and change of working status have a positive impact on the feeling of OSI safety in terms of work, employment and work career. Employment of OSI is also directly reflected in the life standard of the entire family and the perception of its own contribution, the improvement of the material situation in the household. Different types of information for disabled people have led to improved general information, which is the basis for any further employment activity. Employers have less resistance to the employment of people with disabilities. Also, informing the OSI at local level about the legal solutions adopted, but also monitoring the implementation of other laws regulating the area of professional rehabilitation and employment, improving labour skills and employment at the level of local self-government are necessary to ensure that OSI support for social inclusion is complete. Further sensitisation of the labour market in order to ensure competitive, functional, quality and efficient inclusion of disabled persons is imposed as necessary in the next period. Businesses for professional rehabilitation and employment of OSI still do not have developed entrepreneurial business philosophy, although the performance is directed towards the open market. Equally important must be professional rehabilitation based on labour market needs. In the application of this law, it should also be taken into account that the qualification structure of persons with disabilities is low. Only 7% of OSIs have high professional equipment, and others are low qualified or qualified, so our inclusive education is a prerequisite for inclusive employment. The procedures in law enforcement are missing, and the existing ones need to be brought into line. It is also urgent to adopt rules on the way of assessing the performance of OSIs, and above all, the state must become an example of good practice in the employment of OSIs. The SPS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. We have tabled several amendments to this proposal, and in the framework of co-operation with representatives of the National Disabilities Organization, with which SPS President Ivica Dacic signed the Co-operation Protocol on 6 May 2012. The Protocol expresses its readiness to co-operate with the improvement of the position of disabled persons in the Republic of Serbia, both in the consistent implementation of adopted laws and documents, their changes and additions and adoption of new ones that will improve the position of disabled people in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14516	Thank you. Before we continue to work, we need to establish the end of the mandate of the MPs. You have received the resignations of MPs Jovanka Petrovic and Mica Rogovic as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of examining these paragraphs, which has determined that, by resigning, the case set out in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of these MPs. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office ended, before the time at which they were elected, for MPs Jovanka Petrovic and Mica Rogovic to resign. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're going back to work. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14517	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, respected to the public of Serbia, the aim of each society is to prove its progress through well-organised and applied social policy and thus to achieve perfect social justice. We are only trying to make our social policy better and more acceptable and to seek this perfect social justice. As one of the countries of the communist community we still have in our national consciousness clear and very vivid impressions of social justice and human society. We are mentally ill-treated so that we recognize and react in every situation when we can and must help those who need this help. It is precisely this problem that has long been sought in society and long in legislation that has sought a way and sought a way to address the issue of the employment of disabled persons, even the termologically we have long sought carefully selected words that we will apply in legislative solutions. In 2009, the Rehabilitation and Employment Act was passed. He, of course, showed that there are shortcomings in practice, and that is why we have amendments and additions to this law in order to make it better, because practice best shows what is lacking in one law, that is, as in this case, that this law must be brought into line with the Statistics Act and the State Aid Act. Thus, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in Serbia was adopted in 2009 and despite the lack of vulnerabilities, it proved solid in practical application. The amendments and additions to this law that are before us are extortions of these other circumstances, the need to monitor everything other laws impose, everything that must be implemented in practice. The imbalance created in the labour market, inflation and financial security are what we are freely assessing, managed by the ministry in charge of implementing this law in the Amendments and Supplements proposal. The aim of each law is to increase the safety of those to whom it applies. This is the case with the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Since the law provides for the stimulation and financing of the employment of disabled persons, but cannot be changed at the rate that changes financial legality thus endangers, not to say devising some important provisions of law enforcement are proposed amendments that bring this into meaningful frameworks. Therefore, the law stipulates that an employer may be exempt from the obligation to employ persons with disabilities, but that he is obliged to pay funds that would continue to be directed precisely for the purpose of professional rehabilitation of these persons. The fact is that practice has shown in a very short period, because the law was passed in 2009, that if these technical changes are not introduced into the law and remain in force of the existing one, that purpose of the law is lost to its independence. So legally permissible employers have proven to be life-threatening, because they have created problems in practice that make life so difficult for everyone, and people with disabilities lessen the chance of achieving the most important human right, the right to work, the right to live from their own work. I always stress that every law, every member of the law and every amendment adopted in this high House changes someone's life very often, sometimes very radically. These amendments and additions to the law will change the lives of people with disabilities, we hope to qualify for the better, and it is our intention that, indeed, after adopting this proposal, their lives become, certainly, better and safer. Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. The proposal that is before us now very clearly determines the financial obligations of all entities participating in the implementation of this law and guarantees a timely inflow of funds for the purpose, rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Article 6 amending Article 32 of the existing law clearly and quite effectively stimulates the employment of persons with disabilities without working experience. Work experience has proved to be a difficult environment for people with no health problems. Employers, particularly private, insist on working experience, and on how and where to gain it if someone fails to accept you once without working experience to acquire it and to start with a kind of capital in later employment. There have been several attempts, and I think that there are still ongoing attempts by the National Employment Service to help overcome this problem through projects with a variety of stimulating measures, but no matter how effective these measures are, they are always insufficient and should always be improved and have more, because people with disabilities are in a particularly difficult position to gain previous work experience. Already, one of the speakers mentioned that there is a special difficulty and their educational profile and we believe that the proposed change in the existing member will give better results. Article 7 refers to the existing Article 40, to the assignment of horizontal state aid to enterprises that employ disabled persons and we believe that it has well specified these conditions and has allowed not ambiguous involvement of the state in providing funds for this purpose. Article 8 refers to Article 41 of the existing law and provides for the horizontal assistance of the State for additional costs and the application of regulations which finance the employment of persons with disabilities. Article 10 relating to Article 47 removes the doubt about the payment of the penalty or determines the obligation to pay the funds after the draft law, which prescribes the payment of the penalty, is deleted. The New Serbia parliamentary group has no dilemma that changes and additions of this law have been offered acceptable for us. We have proposed only one amendment and it is almost a lecturing change regarding the obligation to do something. In the law, we felt that the imperative verb form was always more acceptable and resulted in a solution compared to something that could be relatively relativizing. So we think that the legal solution needs instead of verbs, it can stand the verb of the sea or should, because it commits to doing something. With us in life practice, and language practice is a mirror of life practice, what can, often and cannot, or what can or does not have to be realized. In any case, by supporting this legislative proposal and seeing that you have Mr Ministers, the support of most parliamentary groups for these amendments and additions, I can tell you that we have looked very responsibly at those amendments submitted by colleagues, which you have already heard in the correlation and co-operation with organisations dealing with these issues. I ask you all to look at them and adopt what is acceptable and we will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14518	Thank you. The word has a national emissary of Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14519	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I am pleased that these days on the agenda of Parliament we have laws on which we have almost absolute unity, that we have laws that concern socially responsible behaviour and the inclusion of all those who are in society in any way threatened. Of course, every law that is passed has its own social context and that, without that social context, it can never become part of life, but it seems to me that the question of people with disabilities and how they have more social than legal context. Because without one serious education and public opinion education, without one serious affirmation of their rights and their position, it is hardly possible to implement one or the best law in practice. This concerns all sensitive groups, not only people with disabilities, and so I think that today is an opportunity, given that we only have amendments to the laws that we agree on more or less, that we talk first of all about the position of persons with disabilities and what the real problems we have in society, which prevent us from turning even the best laws into practice, and the very people with disabilities to achieve their full rights, even when there is a willingness to do so. I am not one to undo the fact that in the laws everything begins and that Serbia today has a fairly good legislative framework. First of all, I mean the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities and the Rehabilitation and Employment Act. I also mean the international legal framework, the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities, as I think about the strategy. However, what we lack, and here we must agree that somehow what always leads to the application of the law is missing, and above all I mean action plans, related to a strategy that would allow the right person with disabilities, primarily to be implemented in the local community, where they are mostly the easiest and the easiest to implement. We all need to take part of the responsibility for not having it, if we have to admit that the difficult economic situation also affects the exercise of these rights and that despite the will of all of us to be implemented to the end, they cannot be beyond not only the social but also the economic context and the fact that society is in. What we also miss, except that we don't have the resources, we don't have the legal framework worked out, is the fact that we don't have enough control over what we have in the budget. That's what my colleagues were talking about before. I am sorry that there are no stricter mechanisms in these amendments to the law for the control of budgetary resources and their distribution, given that as a parliamentary group with the National Disability Organization, we had consultations before today's session and that their fundamental objection is precisely that they cannot see in a transparent way what happens to the funds that are being paid into that fund and that they do not feel that these funds come to them as end-users. Unfortunately, we do not have adequate statistics, so today all my colleagues who have worked to prepare the presentation on this subject had different statistical data, because there is no such type of statistics, no specific number of people with disabilities and types of disability, and also with this regard, no rights of social protection and any measures related to their inclusion cannot be adequately designed and envisaged in the budget unless you have adequate figures. That's what we have to work on. So outside the legal framework there is reality, and reality says that people with disabilities have come a long way in this society from extreme stigmatization and prejudice to some kind of inclusion. It started with the language, and I remind you of how they were all called in society, until we found an adequate form and a way to refer to people with disabilities, which is not irrelevant if the thought begins in language and the fact that we just called them defective persons and so on. I was talking about what kind of relationship we had as a society to them. Also, the fact that Stigmatisation exists today in the family and especially in small areas, that you can often hear that there are many more people with disabilities abroad than in Serbia, simply because they are visible there, and here you cannot see them in supermarkets and in the streets, says that even in the family there is already one prejudice and one shame towards people with disabilities, who do not participate sufficiently in all areas of social life. That's why I see today's debate as important to talk about. It's also quite tragic to look at the educational structure of people with disabilities. Today we are talking about their rehabilitation and employment, and it is not possible only if you provide for criminal measures for the employer, and on the other hand do not predict that those persons with disabilities have an adequate level of employment, so that they are desirable on the labour market. If you see only 0.83% of people with disabilities have college education, you can understand a lot of things from that. Their approach to education is far from adequate, that the concept of specialized schools ends in three years of secondary education, with absolutely inadequate occupations, which Mrs. Banovic spoke of, with universities and schools that have physical barriers today and with an environment that has prejudice and a tendency to reject such persons, leads exactly to the fact that they do not end up having adequate education, have no adequate access to information. Then the employer, whether it's private or state-owned, has a good excuse not to take over from the labour market. It is equally dramatic and data that in the labour market, according to the National Employment Service, only 2.1% of people with disabilities are looking for jobs, and 20,000 of them enjoy social assistance based on unemployment. One of the roots is in education, which I have already talked about, and the other is talking about, and this shows research, where people with disabilities and their problems have been studied, where they often say that they hesitate to apply to work at all, to think that they are expected by prejudices and barriers of different species and that they do not believe that there is an employer who is working to hire them. Today in Serbia, about 3,200 people with disabilities are working in so-called Protective workshops. Compared to the number, some here have said that it is about 700,000, it is a really negligible number, given that we have a special budget, a budget for employment and the like, so only 3200 in the protection workshops, and they experience the fate of which counterpart Donka Banovic spoke, as in the company "Shumadija" in Kragujevac. It is not only a question of whether the state has responded well or not, which in the end, after that hunger strike, local self-government has given local self-government a one-time aid to the Ministry of Economy some additional means, but essentially this example of Des Forestia speaking about the state in which these workshops are located, with inadequate equipment, with inadequate products that do not have their own market and these protection workshops become the kind of social category, in which the state is forced to invest, purchase such products, instead of creating real jobs for people with disabilities, who will have a product that they can sell, and in this respect have the possibility of hiring someone new. This is what I urge you, Mr. Minister, that now that we have this more adequate form of fundraising and dispersion, to make sure that these new jobs and social employment are such that these jobs are sustainable and that they are real. It's also a question of the dignity of a person with disabilities, who'll feel that she's earned that salary and that she's working on a job that makes sense. If we are talking about local self-governments in which most of the rights are being exercised, then it is enough to say that the ombudsman's research has shown that almost none, I underline that word, the local self-government in Serbia has not fulfilled its obligations under the Strategy for the inclusion of persons with disabilities. So all kinds of barriers, from physical to informative to today exist. We have to work on it. We also need to notice the degree of poverty among people with disabilities, and the help that goes towards their social inclusion eventually ends up at their survival, at the settlement of basic living needs, and they remain locked up in their homes or at best in their families. Of course, every problem has its own solution and we deeply believe that the solution is education. I mean better education for people with disabilities, but I think the answer is also in public opinion education. When we talk about the education of people with disabilities, the concept of inclusion is good. He, I may say freely, was revolutionary, but he asked for an additional pledge, not only financial resources, but working with teaching staff, working with parents and willingness to look the truth in the eyes, that today's inclusive teaching has more opponents than supporters, and that these children are very difficult to adapt to the environment, that sometimes there are objective reasons for that, that we need to find the means and ways for teaching assistants, that the system of special schools for people with disabilities must be extended and made more dignified, more modern and educated educational staff for the demands of a new market and new time. We also need, as the Education Strategy provides, especially for people with disabilities to predict learning at a distance that exists everywhere in the world and the possibility of ending schools in this way. I would never forget the education of public opinion and education of those who are not persons with disabilities, because I believe that the violation of many laws, and what I will later talk about, is the refusal to respect this Rehabilitation and Employment Act primarily lies in prejudices and most often, not in the real inability to hire a person with disabilities, but in an unwillingness to do so and in a better choice to pay a fine or a penalty to the state. The other thing we have to work on, Minister, is so-called. Deinstitutionalization, that of persons with disabilities from the so-called The institution of closed spaces, where they are directed towards each other, let us refer to other ways of care and care, where they will be more involved in the social environment. It's a concept that's known everywhere in the world. I know it takes a lot of money for him, but let's at least get what's in the local environment, expand that project of local assistants and find the funds for him. If we have 15m euros for new pieces, I am perfectly sure that the same budget will include funds for people with disabilities. We also have to make sure that the position of people with disabilities is far different in large and small environments and that, in this sense, the dispersion of these protection workshops, but also schools and different projects must be regionally equal and that there are environments where they have absolutely no chance of schooling or employment. Now I come to the subject of this law, since other than these technical alignments with the Statistics Act and the State Aid Act, the essential thing here is employment. In the previous law, before these changes in the basic law, double sentences are provided for employers who do not employ persons with disabilities. That's probably not bad to start with, to raise awareness of public opinion, because I believe that without it, it's hard for us to raise any employer to pay attention and hire a disabled person, but I don't think it's enough. As in education, often incentive works much better than punishment. I would agree with my colleague Omerovic, that perhaps this country can start to think about the method of incentives and affirmative actions for enterprises that employ people with disabilities, more than about strengthening criminal policy, since it can cause at some point and conflict. I'm not saying this should be ruled out, I'm saying that the affirmative action measures should be introduced. Also, we absolutely need to be aware of the situation in the economy and, in that sense, to be realistic about what extent and how this budget will be filled, when we know that hundreds of thousands of businesses are closing down and when we know that employers are unable to pay basic contributions. So the state, I mean, not only from paying by employers, has to think about how to charge this budget for people with disabilities, so it doesn't end up being that this law isn't implemented, as well as strategies for people with disabilities, because of the lack of funds of the favorite and most popular pronunciation in every government. I'd also like to draw attention to what we need to talk about honestly. It is the fact that a large number of employers, as I have already said, chooses consciously, although the state would help him adjust the job for a person with disabilities and although they have the opportunity to hire her, chooses knowingly and rather because of prejudice, due to lack of public opinion, to pay 50% of the average profit, believing that the productivity of his company or her company will fall by hiring persons with disabilities. We've got a lot to work on. Not only the criminal policy, but the story, but the educational programmes, but the general work in schools, from the beginning to the end, to get used to people with disabilities and the entire state administration, where education measures must be applied specifically, that people with disabilities should be an incentive in the development of society, and not to anyone who exclusively has a social category. Why do I say it especially to the public administration? Because if you look at the 2011 and 2012 Simeon report, you will see that the largest number of problems faced by people with disabilities are not in the private sector but are right in the public administration, which should first respect the laws that it prescribes. The largest number of complaints from people with disabilities refer precisely to the PIO fund, for example, the disability process and the like, which lasts forever. In this regard, the Simeon issued a recommendation to the PIO Fund on a reasonable period of two-stage procedure, as they cannot achieve their basic social rights, which enable them to survive, due to the slowness of the Public Administration. Not to mention local self-governments, which I mentioned earlier, in which none of them have ultimately implemented recommendations regarding the accessibility of buildings for disabled persons, that I am not talking about schools where there are not enough resources, assistants and the process of inclusion has not been completed. Not to mention all public institutions, which are on the set of the Manchester list, which, in general and in large numbers, violate these laws that we bring here. This is a really worrying reminder, because public service, public administration should be an example of a society that is insensitive, which is a lot of stereotypes, which is prone to exclusion, and in this way, it is absolutely not a good example. We talked here a lot, in the end, about prejudice. My parliamentary group has often warned against different groups, radical groups that spread discrimination against different groups, warning that once discrimination is established in society, then the groups to which this discrimination applies will constantly be that number of groups greater and greater. I therefore draw attention to the fact that, under discrimination, not only are Roma, gay population, Catholics, members of certain minorities, minorities – national, religious, today there are fans of certain different groups, all who think differently. I'm saying all this because it's a social context in which it's very difficult to speak and the rights of disabled people and to implement what we're all talking about here. Dear Ministers, my MP group of DS will be pleased to support you in everything you do for people with disabilities, and when you pass the social employment law, and while we adopt the amendments to this law. We've been in live communication with the National Organization of Persons with Disabilities, and we have a strategic agreement with them, we're working to work with you. But keep in mind that no law in practice can live unless we create a social context for it to be applied and that we all have to fight together for people with disabilities in this society not to be stigmatized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14520	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. In that case, we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14521	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since the authorised promoters have already expressed their views that once correspond, some of them, of course, have brought forth a bunch of statistical data, but have also pointed to some real problems, and above all I think about the percentage of people with disabilities in our society, their rights and inability to achieve the same, as well as their needs in which they remain deprived, but also the inability of the state to meet them, as a result of the failed economy, I will try to be as short as possible. Professional rehabilitation is one of the links in the chain of the overall rehabilitation of people with disabilities whose primary goal is social integration and the full participation of people with disabilities, in absolutely all areas of social life. Different countries have different social economic and political conditions that affect and form such a model of professional rehabilitation and application of support for services and compensation. Of course, professional rehabilitation is precisely the one that aims to enable people with disabilities to achieve and maintain an optimal functioning in full interaction with their environment, with each of us, a series of services based on individual needs, as well as the promotion of jobs. I'll agree with some of the criticisms that have been made here, because I don't think these solutions have a significant impact on improving the quality of a law like this, but I'm sure I'll support the proposal that's going in the right direction. What I have as my first remark is my need to point out that professional rehabilitation cannot be separated from educational rehabilitation. It is this educational rehabilitation that is necessary and is something that is professional and that precedes it. There is no consensus in our legislation between professional and educational rehabilitation. This educational rehabilitation, especially now, by introducing inclusion in the regular system of education of this population, I do not think it is sufficiently clearly defined and that it does not produce those personnel who would be trained and prepared for employment and inclusion in the process of work and for the whole world of work. Also, I think it's dangerous to view this law only partially, but it needs to be seen and it should be compared to all those laws that regulate all the right people with disabilities. My second criticism is actually my second suggestion to the promoter. I hope the minister listens to me, since he closely followed all the other authorised promoters, and I'm the first to apply for a word and I hope he will listen. It's the criticism again. Another important element in this professional rehabilitation is that, in fact, the legal solution is not again a single unity and is not fully provided for by people with disabilities. Often, in fact, in the whole legal matter, they are very generally treated, and above all I am talking about the rights of persons with disabilities, so there is no realisation of them through defining principles and measures to implement. It should also be kept in mind and looked at from the position of persons with disabilities. If one area of social life is missed, then I personally feel that it directly prevents people with disabilities from using other rights that are carefully done. The third suggestion or criticism, however you will, is that these amendments and additions of the Law have not been addressed by the issue of the supervision mechanism of law enforcement, i.e. no specific question of who follows the violation of the rights of persons with disabilities. What is commendable and is the proposalor's intention, which I mentioned, is ultimately somewhat of this law, I say because I think there is room to improve before the final adoption, these latest amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment are going towards harmonisation with legal solutions above all those countries that we have in our environment, above all I think about EU countries. After all, I can't help but mention one important piece of information. I will refer to my colleague, Donko Banovic, who was very clear when she spoke and told the minister that she hoped to adopt some of the amendments, and I must mention the fact that yesterday we received the Government's opinion that only one amendment was adopted, and all other amendments of MPs from different MPs were rejected, so I think that the proposaler should reconsider because there are very good solutions in these rejected amendments. Their acceptance can move and can contribute to making this proposal as constructive as possible, more comprehensively and provide a more complete bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14522	Thank you. The word has a folk consequence of Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14523	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in May 2009, created a legal framework for facilitating employment of persons with disabilities and rehabilitation. After four years, as far as this law is concerned, we have had the opportunity to see all the advantages and disadvantages. We expected from you, Mr. Minister, and from this government, that you would be more careful to look at all the shortcomings and to amend all the shortcomings of the previous law with the proposed changes. Unfortunately, practice still today shows, as in the previous period, that you are somehow looking at only half solutions. In principle, this law follows the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and I say in principle because certain members of the Law do not comply with this Convention. And you are the very members of the law that are not in accordance with the Convention, and you have not proposed this amendment to the Law to comply with the Convention. First of all, it refers to the fact that public authorities have no obligation to hire disabled people. In this way, the only businessmen in this country have such a commitment. Why do you think it is wrong for ministers to introduce the obligation of state authorities to also employ disabled persons if we really want to be a society to show care for such persons? We simply have to introduce it as a commitment to the state authorities as well. The 2009 law states that there is a member who speaks about discrimination regarding the way in which the working ability or incompetence of such persons is determined. The report you received in 2011 showed you the fact that there is discrimination. This was also said by some previous MEPs for the procedure that exists when waiting to determine whether a person is working or not and that in a second-degree procedure a doctor can do without any examination of that person, only on the basis of some other reports to say that he is working and that in such a way such a person should not exercise his rights. We believe that you and those members should have included this amendment to the Law. We also think that you should have looked at some European practice so that what you think is necessary and good for such persons is introduced into our law, as is the case. in Germany, whose employment is done in a different way by either working at home or working for four hours, and we think that might not be a bad solution. Also, in Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden predicted the possibility of freezing rights for a period of four years, which means that if a person with disabilities lost his job, she would still receive a subsidy for the period of four years. We believe that this is a good solution and that you could also include the proposed amendments to the law. You've identified only two things with these changes. The first is that you want this proposal to bring the law into line with official RS statistics, and this cannot be the only goal of some amendments to the law. Second of all, you're law-abiding employers' pens. You're terminating the wage refund and you're introducing a subsidy. In the light of the law, you say that it will not adversely affect economic operators, that it is only 7,000 dinars if someone employs such a person a month or 280,000 at an annual level and it is not much for employers, since inflation was 12.2% and that we have a jump in the euro relative to the dinar. Minister, I must tell you that this is a very large amount for employers. Facts show that. We in Serbia today have fewer businesses, fewer companies, fewer private entrepreneurs compared to the previous year. It's not because they're better off than they're doing worse in this country. That's why we have fewer opportunities for new jobs. The fact is that in this country, 30% of the working-age population is unemployed and is the biggest problem of the country. The fact is that there is a continuing tendency for everyday people to lose their jobs and statistics themselves shows that in January and February of this year 9,200 people were out of work. If that were a trend by the end of the year, we would have 60,000 citizens of this country who do not have the conditions for a decent life. I think your ministry is very little about reducing the number of unemployed people in this country, it doesn't seem like anything at all. I don't think you're the only one responsible as a minister, I think it's the responsibility of the government, but I think that's the biggest problem of this country. When we talk about hiring disabled people, we can't just talk about hiring disabled people in a situation where we have 30% of the people in this country who don't have a job. In this sense, I believe that the government needs to be serious, to propose some concrete measures in order to stop the number of people who lose their jobs in this country every day and to create conditions for people to be able to employ and those who are persons with disabilities because we know what problems they face in everyday life. In this regard, we believe that some concrete steps should be taken by the government because the measures that have been taken so far have shown no effect. I can't say that you may have thought these measures were bad, you might have thought they were good, but practice shows that these measures don't give effect. In order to solve the problem of hiring people with disabilities, we need to have more businesses in this country, we need to work on having new businesses. Without that, we won't be able to help people with disabilities. We also feel that it is necessary for the state authorities to engage in the employment of disabled people and thus to contribute primarily to education and show their willingness and genuine concern for such people. Often, in fact, in the whole legal matter, they are very generally treated, and above all I am talking about the rights of persons with disabilities, so there is no realisation of them through defining principles and measures to implement. It should also be kept in mind and looked at from the position of persons with disabilities. If one area of social life is missed, then I personally feel that it directly prevents people with disabilities from using other rights that are carefully done. The third suggestion or criticism, however you will, is that these amendments and additions of the Law have not been addressed by the issue of the supervision mechanism of law enforcement, i.e. no specific question of who follows the violation of the rights of persons with disabilities. What is commendable and is the proposalor's intention, which I mentioned, is ultimately somewhat of this law, I say because I think there is room to improve before the final adoption, these latest amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment are going towards harmonisation with legal solutions above all those countries that we have in our environment, above all I think about EU countries. After all, I can't help but mention one important piece of information. I will refer to my colleague, Donko Banovic, who was very clear when she spoke and told the minister that she hoped to adopt some of the amendments, and I must mention the fact that yesterday we received the Government's opinion that only one amendment was adopted, and all other amendments of MPs from different MPs were rejected, so I think that the proposaler should reconsider because there are very good solutions in these rejected amendments. Their acceptance can move and can contribute to making this proposal as constructive as possible, more comprehensively and provide a more complete bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. The Liberal Democratic Party has submitted a number of amendments to this law. We hope that these amendments can improve the proposed legislative solution, and thus allow the largest number of people with disabilities in this country to get a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14524	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14525	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs, in May 2009, when the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted, we took a significant step forward. What is a fundamental change in the adoption of this law is turned around, this inclusive approach to employment of persons with disabilities in the open labour market, which was earlier less practice and was more of an alternative employment model. The establishment of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities within the National Employment Service, which opened in Belgrade in 2010, then in Novi Sad and Kragujevac, those organisational units where the centres are not open, there are persons. Councils in charge of hiring people with disabilities have helped to increase the number of people with disabilities. Based on official statistics from the National Employment Service between May 2010 and September 2011, 5,230 people with disabilities were employed, compared to some 200-300 people who were employed annually in some previous periods. Regardless of these positive shifts, we still cannot be satisfied with what has been achieved so far, as my fellow MPs have now said, we still have a large number of problems in the practice of people with disabilities and a large number of people with disabilities have not found employment. We have more reason to, and I'm going to talk about some. Some civil society organisations and persons with disabilities believe that even these employment data of disabled persons are not realistic, that they are not persons who have actually received employment from the application of this law, but that employers have found a way to send through their permanent employees, who have sent them to the categorization committees, to meet the conditions that the law imposes on them, which is that they have a certain number of disabled persons and thus have freed themselves from the obligation to hire new persons. What are the reasons people with disabilities have and what they face, and why can't they get to work? My colleagues emphasized that today. First, their low education. Half of registered unemployed persons with disabilities have a primary or unfinished primary school, thousands of them have secondary or special secondary education according to outdated curricula and programmes and they simply do not meet the needs of the labour market. Therefore, in addition to all existing programmes that exist, we need to introduce new programmes that will allow for additional training and retraining of persons with disabilities for deficits and according to their working skills. My colleague Donka Banovic gave you examples of why children can be educated and what to enroll persons with disabilities, and labour market needs for these employees do not exist. What else does this data tell us? We have major problems in education, and most problems in the application of inclusion in education. That's also what colleagues have pointed out. It's one big shift we've made, but unfortunately it's still at law-making, and with great problems in application. It is necessary to pay attention to the fact that children with disabilities are not separated from their peers, that we support them in education and any other support, because if they acquire adequate education they will find employment when they become able to work and then there will be this real inclusion, as regards employment. Another reason why it is difficult to get to work is the underaccessible environment, public crime, inaccessible jobs and depending on the region to the region, even there is not the same situation. Of course, in developed regions, in the city of Belgrade and in major cities, they have somewhat solved these problems, but in most of our region, they still have big problems despite their will and desire they cannot find employment, because all of these difficulties do not have enough personal assistants to help them achieve everything they are capable of intellectually and work for. So, a spectrum of services, services, despite efforts through the legal framework that we have all put forward to improve this, practice has shown that this has not yet taken place to the extent that it is necessary. Insufficient number of qualified experts for rehabilitation services. This is an important question, to make sure that there are as many trained, educated and personal assistants as possible that people with disabilities can do their jobs. At the beginning of the application of this law, people with disabilities were misinformed. They had a kind of mistrust that they could achieve their right to work. Also, employers were less informed at first, had less experience and I think that's where the shift happened. Employers now that they start hiring people with disabilities, prejudices all go away, they break up, they make sure people with disabilities can carry out their work responsibilities in quality. There is this shift that will bring years ahead of us, and that is to get used to people with disabilities not having that problem, not having barriers, going to employers for job talks, and I say employers will be much more open, of course, with all these incentives that this law allows them to employ persons with disabilities. In the very difficult economic situation in which we are located employers, they are struggling for every job. The state should react there and protect endangered categories, help employers to re-fund jobs costs, by re-funding costs for assistants, to facilitate their employment and to create new jobs, especially for endangered categories that we are talking about today. As regards incentives granted by this law to employers, in practice it was most shown that this was a refund of labour adaptation costs to a certain amount and a 12-month wage subsidy at a minimum profit level. It's for the City of Belgrade. I came up with information that the contest was held in February and by September 2012 55 people were employed with this subsidy. After the programme expired, a National Employment Service associate held a conversation with employers and showed that most remained employed. That's what's good. The cost-refunding and job-adjustment programmes and the refunding of the costs of assistance were mostly used by associations and organisations dealing with the protection of rights and improving the quality of life of persons with disabilities. One of the conditions is that they employ indefinite persons who have an estimated second degree of damage. They're not enough on the labour market, so that's why it turned out that they used these incentives the most. Due to limited time, I'll conclude and say it's a good move. It is necessary that we lead a strong promotion of the recruitment of disabled persons, that we all have to work on it, that we break these prejudices that people with disabilities are unable to carry out their work obligations, as well as other employees. With everything, perhaps a grudge, not everything is applied by what the law predicts. We should all try to show all our concern for people with disabilities and that in the future we have much more positive and statistical information about their involvement and their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14526	The word has been made by the MP Dr. Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14527	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, in Serbia, there are estimates moving between 700 and 800,000 or, if you will, in percentage terms, 10 or maybe more than 10% of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, regardless of this number, these faces are almost invisible and fairly discriminated against. Sometimes we too, who do not face the problems they face every day, seem to remember them only when our paralympics light our cheeks. In order to at least partially mitigate this and change it in perspective, we all need to be together, not just the ministry responsible for these affairs, working to strengthen our awareness of the needs and rights of people with disabilities. The state must, on its own part, work to continuously improve and modernise the legal regulation that ensus the rights of these persons, or persons with disabilities. In that sense, we are today discussing a proposal for amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which, I would say, are on the trail of exactly what I said in the previous sentence. The moment this law was passed, about four years ago, people with disabilities were in a very invisible position. Some 75% of the unemployed were among them, and some data even say that almost 90% of them were unemployed. Even 70% of people with disabilities could have been characterized as poor. When we add to that, so to speak, subjective problems, such as the poor educational structure of persons with disabilities, and among them, at least at that time, there were only about 7% of highly educated, and even 50%, as one colleague said, those who had a primary school or had no elementary school, as well as some others, say, lack of confidence among them for various reasons which I would say, mostly objective, as well as fear. Then it becomes clear that the competent ministry was facing a situation that was quite complex, I would say even alarming. It is obvious that full redefinition of the relationship of persons with disabilities, as a potential employee, and the working environment, or employers, was necessary. This legislation sets out the measures that went three ways – increasing the employment of persons with disabilities, providing conditions for their social integration and regulating the employment of persons with disabilities in line with best world practices, including EU practices. The 2009 current legal solution has removed many shortcomings from the previous period. However, as it usually is, in application and in practice it has proved that some of the solutions, were insufficiently effective, were difficult to apply. This led the government and the competent ministry to decide at the beginning of this year that, in order to improve the existing legal solution, the procedure for amending and supplementing the law would begin. Many of the problems identified during the three-and-a-half-year application of this law have been analysed, but also the problems identified by representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, so here, I will quote some of their concrete remarks that I have encountered. "The situation of people with disabilities has significantly improved by passing this law, but the smallest shift has been made in the area of employment. "Or: "Serbia is told it has the best laws in the area of protection of disabled people, but the worst application. ". Since time does not allow me to analyse any change proposed by these amendments or additions to the law, I would only remain on those amendments that touch these above remarks by representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities. The analysis found that the legal solution so far motivated employers to employ people with disabilities, i.e. most often they used alternative options that were available to them, which I remind you, has already said something about it. So, these are the possibilities of investing in the budget fund of certain funds, instead of hiring the prescribed number of people with disabilities or co-operation with specialised enterprises for people with disabilities. What's the problem is, in the meantime, because of the harmonisation of our statistics, the Republic Statistics Institute has changed statistical data regarding the billing of salaries, so today the salaries are accounted for by the employee, not as before in the economy. For this reason, it has appeared that this happens very often with us, a hole in the law, so to speak, and the possibility for employers to practically pay the same amount that hasn't changed for several years instead of hiring people with disabilities. Since this amount has not changed, even in nominal form, they were practically motivated to pay certain amounts of money instead of hiring people with disabilities, and unfortunately, they do not even comply with that obligation, i.e. to use some of the complexity in the law again, which, due to overlapping the competence of certain services which were competent to implement this law, or to monitor its implementation, are practically not paying for that amount at all, i.e., they should practically pay for certain penals that they did not pay. To prevent this, the statistics used to calculate the amount to be paid by those employers who decide not to hire people with disabilities have been changed. In what way did we get the situation that, in essence, at least in the nominal amount of this sum changes, every month, that is to say, it increases when the calculation of inflation and the depression of dinars, which is usually in real terms, is negative again, but at least in nominal amount, by dissuasing employers to meet their obligations to the state, or to persons with disabilities, in this way, or rather, it is practically motivated to turn to the employment of people with disabilities, rather than to fulfil their obligations in all other ways, except for the one who seems to be the best and for the disabled, and I would say that it is far better for the state to employ a private sector of persons with disabilities rather than to pay those with the state, and then that the state, which is the worse employer, seems to be, find solutions for persons with disabilities. As regards these other observations by the representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, as regards the misapplication of the legislation in question, an analysis of compliance with the obligations made by employers has been carried out, establishing that the penalty penalty measure has been found to be difficult to apply. As an illustrating data, I would point out that, for example, in December 2012, only 47 payments were made to the Budget Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I am sure that it is clear to every citizen in this country that there are far more businesses, i.e. employers who have failed to fulfil their obligation, which is prescribed under this law, and that it is clear to everyone that it is impossible for only 47 of those who have not fulfilled their obligation in an adequate way. This measure proved inadequate, inapplicable and ineffective, and therefore the employer decided to abolish it, i.e. replacing it with a single monthly obligation for all those who do not employ persons with disabilities of 50% of the average earnings per employee in Serbia, by harmonising this amount now, each month with changes in salaries per employee in Serbia, which certainly makes demotive for those who have decided to meet their legal obligation. Before I conclude, let me just say a few words about some other important, necessary measures that are not part of this legislative proposal, but also how they thinn people with disabilities and certainly are very interested in them, and for them the SDPS particularly stands for them. In fact, practice has shown that people with disabilities, who possess modern knowledge, are far easier to hire than those who do not own them. When we remind ourselves that about 50% of people with disabilities have barely elementary education and that only seven percent of them are highly educated, then it is clear how important it is to do everything in our power to increase the number of educated and especially highly educated among people with disabilities, and especially to work to make them the most modern knowledge and thus become competitive on the labour market. Here, of course, it can't be a responsibility just on the side of the state and the ministry. The responsibility is, in a certain way, for people with disabilities, because they too have to show interest in something like this, but again, when we remember what we've already talked about, which is that there is a lack of confidence in them, then in that light, I would say that even in this case, the role of the state must be primary, or that the state must do everything in its power to encourage people with disabilities, to work more on itself, but it also needs the state to organise specific, disabled persons adapted programmes of education, training or retraining. What is also very important for people with disabilities, as far as I am aware, on this legislative proposal, is that the development of social entrepreneurship gives people with disabilities another chance to exercise their rights to a decent life and achievement in society. Finally, to conclude, the SDPS parliamentary group considers that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are a step forward in relation to earlier solutions, and will support them in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14528	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14529	Thank you. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is one of those who, from the moment of adoption, had the aim of improving the position of persons with disabilities, giving them a better and greater opportunity on the labour market, to treat people with disabilities as equal members of the community, to introduce incentive measures for those employers who have chosen to employ persons with disabilities, to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion of persons with disabilities, but also to sensitise the public to the problems of these persons. Now, if we were to analyse all these segments, certainly to conclude that different degrees of achievement, but what is unequivocally, is that this law has, since the moment of adoption, given some results since 2009, yet. Persons with disabilities are persons with permanent effects of physical, sensory, mental or mental impairment. According to all the analyses, these individuals and their families are in a very difficult position, primarily socioeconomically, on the lower scale of poverty, and involving these persons in the world of work is not only a question of enabling their economic independence, but also of reducing poverty. What causes-related poverty is the problem of unemployment, as another problem for people with disabilities, but, hand to heart, unemployment is not only a problem for these people, but rather a generally long-standing problem in Serbia. The state, when it comes to people with disabilities, has really brought some important measures, but by estimating all the efforts that have been made, we still have to say that the number of persons in this category of people with disabilities is very little today, that more than 20,000 people with disabilities on the National Employment Service records, and that especially a small number of people with disabilities who have a permanent working relationship. As for the age and education structures, there are no significant differences in the general population. So, even among people with disabilities, the most unemployed are those persons who are over 50 years of age, followed by faces of 40 years of age. These two categories include over 60% of people with disabilities, but it is not negligible for the number of people aged up to 30 years, and about 3,000 people are present in this population. As far as the education structure is concerned, we have heard, already a large number of MPs say that over 75% of people with disabilities have education in the first, second or third degree, and only 321 people with disabilities have higher education. Therefore, not only from this statistics, but also from general and real analyses of the situation of disabled persons, it is not difficult to conclude that employment, education and support for independent life are three key components to improve their position and, above all, to create the basis for the right inclusion of disabled persons. Serbia, however, has several rules that provide an appropriate legal framework to support people with disabilities, than the Strategy to improve the situation of persons with disabilities, the National Strategy for the Reduction of Poverty, the Labour Act, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. So, all of these legal frameworks come from the same premise - that every society should allow people with disabilities to achieve their human, economic, political, social, educational rights, that everyone, of course, has the right to work and free choice of employment and occupations, but, on the other hand, it is quite clear that in conditions in which Serbia is located, it is not easy to provide full and consistent application, and the adoption of such an incentive measures is very important for people with disabilities. In search of work, people with disabilities face various problems, from prejudice, from job failure, inaccessibility of access, environmental resistance, employer resistance, mistrust in their abilities. With these proposals, which we have on the agenda today, there are no substantial changes, except that these amendments are complemented by the harmonisation of legislation with the relevant data published in Serbia today, and that these provisions are in line with the State Aid Regulations Act. The aid concerns incentives for employment of persons with disabilities, for employment in enterprises for professional rehabilitation, while providing subsidies, instead of a current return on earnings. Refunding of persons with disabilities in companies for professional rehabilitation, according to data, was about 25,500, while these proposed changes, according to data from December 2012, should now be increased by about 7,000, to amount to 32,500 dinars. On the other hand, the law also applies to employers who have failed to comply with the obligation of employment of persons with disabilities, for which there may be objective reasons, and provides alternative solutions that allow the employer to pay on behalf of the employment obligation the amount which is now calculated in relation to the average earnings per employee in the Republic. This raises funds for new employment, for professional rehabilitation, for the financing of earnings in companies for professional rehabilitation and employment of the social enterprise, and these funds practically return to the economy, creating opportunities to create new jobs. I must underline that it is good that, in addition to this legislative solution, Serbia has concrete measures concerning direct employment, such as those implemented through the National Employment Service, where special incentive funds are allocated to employers or directly to persons with disabilities, enables the use of funds to start their own business. Public works, also as one measure, regardless of having a limiting weather character, are also one measure that is well-accepted among people with disabilities, because it has enabled employment, but, on the other hand, the provision of many services to this category, which also increased the level and manner of support for people with disabilities. It was these days that a public call for employment was issued on the basis of public works, subsidies, self-employment. I will, for example, set an example for Kragujevac, where in the second half of last year, all social protection institutions were employed through public works by persons with disabilities. Also, local self-government hired 10 people with disabilities, which they were not only trained for work, but also great help and support in work where the state limited employment to the burden of budgets. Since my time is limited, I'd just like to make one request that the Resort Ministry accept this bar for consideration. By consulting people with disabilities, we have come and inspired a new proposal that all incentives for the employment of people with disabilities are mainly about the employment of those with easier degrees, the employment of people with disabilities who have first category. Some examples, such as Austria and Germany, show that there are special incentive measures in their legislation for those employers who employ people with disabilities who have a severe degree of damage, people with 100% physical impairment or persons who are employed under special conditions. So these employers count as hiring a total of two people with disabilities. I'm asking the Resort Ministry to consider it. The representatives of the URS will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14530	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14531	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although we do not have accurate statistics, can be assumed, according to the data I found, that around 700,000 people with disabilities live in Serbia. Most of them, over 70%, live in poverty. One of the biggest causes of this poverty is that these people are unemployed. When the law was passed in May 2009, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the DSS parliamentary group recognized, in addition to good intentions, that there are several more elements that will make employment difficult. Finally, after a little over three years, because the Law came into force in May 2010, it can be said that it made some shifts, that several thousand people with disabilities were employed, that they had found a job on the labour market, but it showed all the problems that people who work and use this law in practice had shown many concerns and many vague situations that should be resolved and that we all expected. Of course, I speak here on behalf of the MPs, but also on behalf of the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia, who expected that these amendments and additions would actually solve these very vague situations and these inaccurate definitions that appear in this law. Unfortunately, that was not the case, and for some reason it's very unclear to me why you haven't consulted the National Disabilities Organization, because you would get a lot of information that we, all the MP groups, see that we're all talking about the same things, and the amendments we've submitted are obviously the same. I mean, to get a lot of things out of them that were very important, to improve this area and to hire a lot more people, people with disabilities. You're saying that the law is actually in line with the Statistics Act, the State Aid Act, and that's fine. But there's a lot of things left that won't be regulated by this law and I'd like to say something about it. This law, I'm not talking about changes and additions, means, on basic law, it predicts that every employer who has more than 20 employees, in accordance with the size of his company, employs a certain number of people with disabilities. One part of the employers fulfilled their legal obligation, and the other employers disobeyed her. There is a possibility that they can regulate their commitment by paying 50% of the average wage in the economy to the budget fund for rehabilitation and employment. It's become, uh, simple, manners. What was amazing to me is, although I am aware that the state is obviously running social policy by transferring the burden of social contributions to the private sector and to private entrepreneurs, it was very interesting to me to look at the data and see that the largest number of those who have disobeyed their legal obligation to employ a number of people with disabilities has not actually done so, but has used this other option, to pay into the budget fund. It would be very interesting to see that budget users, both directly and indirectly, did their legal obligation, by practically paying funds to the budget fund. I'm sorry, I didn't understand it was the intention and intensity of the law. It is one way to break the law, to make a mockery of its meaning, but it just seems wrong to me. Privates paid from their budgets to the budgetary institution, so both indirect and direct users paid from budget funds. When I talk about facts, not what I'd like to say, as an MP to the opposition, these are data from the tax administration that checks the respect of this law, checks out precisely those who have not fulfilled their legal obligation. He says 15 direct budget users, ministries and local self-government did not do so in 2012. Imagine a state that passes a law that violates the ministries and local self-government. Then, 1,765 indirect budget users, these are public enterprises, funds and directors, who are the founders of local self-government. So instead of expecting them to just support the law that the state has passed, which is in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we have also ratified, we experience that it is exactly the opposite, those who should support this law, they violate it. Those who have failed to meet their obligations, are fined in total, that is all data from the tax administration, at the moment it was worth 10m euros, i.e. 1.16 billion dinars. 953 requests have been made for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. How many of these penalties are they really charged? How much is being charged from the budget users right now? It would be good to know that. I couldn't find that data. Maybe the minister knows that information, they're valuable to us. Why are they precious? Because the most important thing is, in fact, that a state that is seriously interested in implementing the law that has passed and is obliged to respect it, that law and enforce it. Unfortunately, that's where our country failed, and that's what we saw in this report. The other thing I want to say is the problems that arise in this budget fund that I've already mentioned. This fund pays dedicated aid to enterprises where more than 50% of the workforce is made up of disabled persons. One part of the funds goes to refund the costs to companies that had to adapt jobs, the type of ramp or special special software and other incentives. But what I want to draw attention to remains quite a bit of money in that budget fund that remains untapped. It would be convenient to find a way to hire people. It actually shows that people with disabilities are not employed because, let's say, last year, they stayed in that fund a billion and a half dinars. These are significant funds which would also contribute to employment. It seems very unserious to me that the state has no place to spend those funds. The next problem that's been said a lot, but it seems to me that it's important to mention it again, is the educational level of people with disabilities. It's something that we, as a state, have committed ourselves to taking care of because we've passed new education laws. It is important to say that the educational level and lack of knowledge and skills is precisely one of the reasons why people with disabilities cannot be employed. I could still talk, but time limits me. I just want to say one thing. Our objections about this, except for the amendments, if you hadn't consulted the association, that changes had to be extended to apply the law. I do have a duty to ask a few questions that a man, a person with disabilities, who runs out of work, has been fired. I'd like to hear from you -- how many people with disabilities have lost their jobs in the term of office past and this government, so how many have been fired? That's very important because then we don't have protective measures. The state has not prescribed safeguards for this category of people. How many companies for professional rehabilitation of disabled persons have been closed in the same period? When I get an answer to that, I'll really know how serious the country is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14532	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14533	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as has been said, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in April or May 2009. The law had, I would say, a very clearly defined goal – to enable inclusion in the world of the work of persons with disabilities, of course, not only in the world of work, but in almost all spheres of social life, i.e. to define in this respect a quality and content legal framework. A few things are of utmost importance when it comes to this law. First of all, social inclusion of people with disabilities in all areas of social life, inclusion in the labour market. It is not only a matter of social policy, it is also a matter of fundamental respect for human rights. It is important to address the existential issue of people with disabilities, we fully agree there, but more importantly their involvement in all areas of social life in Serbia. The moment we spoke in this room about the then draft law on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, the president of the resolution ministry, or the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, came out with several, for us at that time, very important data. It's about the April 2009 data. At the time, it was said that there are around 700,000 people with disabilities in Serbia, that about 300,000 are working capacity, that some 21,000 are employed. Of course, for improving the living conditions of disabled people, employment is the most important thing. The expectations when it comes to this law, I think, were then that about 7,000 people with disabilities would be employed. So at the time of adoption of this bill. Today we have the information, I think that Mr. Krkobovic also said that he employed 9,157 people with disabilities and that another 10,000 were included in the labour market. Four years have passed since the adoption of this law, and I think it is important that today, through these concrete indicators, we analyse the effects of applying the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, that is to say, to see whether it has been realised and whether it has been realised primarily when it comes to the number of persons with disabilities in the past four years. Keeping in mind the information you spoke of, which you mentioned in your opening statement, that the fundamental goal that you wanted to achieve by adopting this legislative proposal was fully realized in 2009. It has already been said, the provisions of this law provide for the obligation of employment of persons with disabilities, but the exception of that is also envisaged, and in that time in 2009 through the then legislative proposal, the law now defines the conditions. Today, we are talking about the bill, about amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and what I want to say is that this proposal that we are talking about today does not change the essence of the law, or there is no change in the originally defined objective adopted by the 2009 law. In principle, this proposal is fully justified and absolutely acceptable. Then, in fact, this is about the necessary harmonisation of the law, and this has already been said, first of all, with official statistics in order to monitor earnings at the monthly level, which is absolutely positive. It is a matter of harmonising the provisions of the law with the State Aid Control Act, the rules for granting state aid, which should enable better control of dedicated resources when it comes to assistance. Also, this has already been said by eradicating Article 29 of the existing law, in fact, answers to the open questions that existed when dealing with different ways of fulfilling obligations. At this point, we do not have an analysis of the results of the application of the current law, we hope that we will also have the opportunity to talk about it in the next period of time. It is also important that we also get an answer to the question of what is today's assessment of the resolution ministry, namely what results are expected by adopting the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment in terms of employment of a larger number of people with disabilities. The intention is not absolutely controversial. The SPS Parliament Club supports the intention to achieve the proposed changes and additions to the law, but we also want to hear what the assessment of the resolution ministry is. The authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary club, Mrs Jovici, said that the MP club has also submitted several amendments to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, not because we believe they are not of quality, but with the aim of further detailing and clarifying certain things when it comes to proposed changes and additions. I want to say that we have run for some open issues that have arisen in practice during the application of the law, and we think that they are important, so perhaps when it comes to the very essence of the existing law, that is, the realisation of what is the essence of the existing Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The Parliament Club has submitted three amendments. In principle, these proposed amendments and additions are of course fully acceptable, and we will discuss the amendments during the debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14534	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14535	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members, when the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities was adopted in 2009, certainly the intention of the state was to make the quicker and easier way for both people to involve primarily in the world of work, and therefore into all spheres of our lives. The law has been passed in a series of laws that were then on the European agenda of law and certainly guaranteed, among other things, the Constitution guaranteed the right to work for all of us, means, and labourable, and above all when it comes to persons with disabilities. The only question was that it was supposed to be, and the question is now that after four years of law enforcement – how many working conditions and even living conditions in Serbia were adequate for this law to find full application in practice. It was easy to write in law that persons with disabilities on an equal footing would be involved in the work process itself, in all spheres of human life. To speak today about the principle of equality when it comes to employment, trust me that it is equal to utopia because it is very difficult for workers today to come to work when they are highly trained, when they are young, and not let alone say that for people with disabilities. Today most prestigious jobs are in the matter of the state sector and public administration reserved for the army of party personnel. Perhaps it would be better if this principle of equality were primarily requalified as a principle of positive discrimination for persons with disabilities when it comes to the employment process. What most lawmakers today have said is that a much more and much stronger public sector, the state administration, local self-government, has proved to have accepted this law at the very least, that is, its application in practice. How many people with disabilities are being discriminated today speaks primarily of the report submitted by the Trustee for 2012 for the Protection of Equality. Today, 60% of respondents say that we have discrimination in Serbia to a large or rather extent. Of these, 36 respondents say that today discrimination is much greater than three years ago. In the table of discriminated groups of people with disabilities took third place with 22.3%. Of all areas of discrimination is the most present in the field of employment 36%, and discrimination among people with disabilities exists in all areas of life, most of all in employment and education that says everything. Three times the unemployment of people with disabilities is higher than the rest of the population. In 2012, of 76 complaints concern discrimination against disability, 14 of which is based on employment. Of course disability is primarily a social category, and here many MPs have said – there should be, above all, the commitment of the state, and much less the commitment of the economy. In particular, the original law is in Chapters 6. 7 and 8 have just processed the area of acquisition, i.e. the achievement of conditions for employment of persons with disabilities, the establishment of legal persons who would employ persons with disabilities, as well as the obligation of employers to employ a number of persons with disabilities or to pay a certain amount of funds by law set into a fund for these purposes. After not four years of age, we have amendments and additions to the law. We've all realized today that they're changing and supplementing the laws of technical nature, and much less essential. That's what the previous speaker said, if we had a comprehensive analysis of how the law for these underage years was applied in practice, we would probably have some fundamental changes and additions today. We have today provided information that 9,157 people with disabilities in the meantime are employed, which is commendable, and we certainly need to welcome, but we do not know how to fill and empty this fund for these needs. The words of my colleague, Milice Vojić Markovic – we also had a good share of the funds left in the fund, whether because of the lack of control as to how it is spent, whether because of the lack of real projects that would serve this purpose. Of course, that money remained neutral. So, it wasn't a comprehensive analysis, we don't know how the law essentially had a positive impact, so we couldn't expect any fundamental changes to this law today. This is how everyone said we have a change in data, so far, by 2011, the average profit in the economy was used, and today it is the average wage per employee in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, it's been two years before that information is in sync. Meanwhile, profits in the economy could only fall. Thus, the fund was damaged on this basis when the businessmen were paying into the fund, so that for these two years and how they disrupted the balance between those two forms of compliance by employers. Most employers avoided the obligation to employ disabled persons themselves and resorted to this second obligation, to direct certain funds that have been reduced year by year, so that they are persons with disabilities and this fund and how they are to harm. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that the opportunity to substantially amend and supplement this law is missed here, so that we have consulted the National Disabilities Organization and have found that today there is still insufficient accessibility, primarily due to physical barriers in many areas. All honours to large cities, but the interior has not carried out this obligation, so they are the most inaccessible and public transport and residential facilities and educational institutions and all other state institutions. We said that half of the registered people with disabilities at the National Employment Service are persons with lower professional training, possibly in the middle. They are mostly based on old and outdated curricula, so that they cannot today or at least weakly follow what professions they are looking for, and even less are by the National Employment Service accessible projects for retraining, retraining or training for some special professions that they are looking for and how they can respond. What I'd like to point out this time, and that's the problem in practice. When a person with disabilities on the basis of a solution of the PIO Fund gets an allowance for other people's care and assistance, and when such a person decides to work, at least by the reaction of persons with disabilities and the National Disabilities Organization, he has a major problem, because the PIO Fund's solution does not specifically say that this is not an explicit that a person has the status of a person with disabilities, but only determines the degree of disability and only determines, or according to the Social Insurance Act and the Law on the PIO Fund, it is said that the person with disabilities and working disability is a person so that when a person decides to get a job again is directed to determine the degree of disability in order to satisfy the formal or rigidly interpreted Article 4(4) and 5) of this law, it goes again to assess the working capacity to obtain that status of a person with disabilities. These are major barriers in practice, so many people with disabilities give up their way to work. Many social work centres, when such persons with an extra for other people's care and help report for work, advise them wrong, not to do so, because they will lose the supplement they have so far. Since you have not covered these amendments and additions to the law, we suggest that at least in sublegal acts, remove some of the barriers that have occurred in practice and that make them a barrier for people with disabilities to get as many jobs as possible. You have changed Article 26 by amending and supplementing the law so that now the employer can pay 50% of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia and that there is absolutely no obligation to hire a person with disabilities anymore. Believe that many more will be defined for it again, they will pay this amount, and persons with disabilities waiting for the National Employment Service will remain unemployed. That's how it's supposed to be. The Democratic Party of Serbia has tried to correct something with its amendments. It is fortunate that we have agreed with many parliamentary groups that you will take this seriously and that you will fix this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14536	Thank you. Ljiljana Miladanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14537	Dear President, respected ministers, respected MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, we are in front of us to amend and supplement the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In voter day, the SNS will vote to amend and supplement this law. I would like to say a few words that bind all of us. It is up to all of us as a society, primarily on our part, to do as much as possible to enable people with disabilities to integrate in society, to enable them to be equal both in employment and in the exercise of any right. This kind of responsibility lies before all of us, before us who are here representatives of the citizens, before us as people who want to provide equal treatment for everyone. I think we should reach a consensus on this, in the sense that people with disabilities need to be helped. For this reason, I hope that this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities will get as much support as possible, not to say that it will receive support from all MPs and MPs here in the National Assembly. The amendments and additions of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities are subject to changes and additions that are necessary from a number of points of view. It should be noted that the Republic Statistics Institute no longer publishes data on average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore it is necessary to comply with the law published by the Republic Statistics Office, which is the average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia. Article 3 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in Current Article 28 adds a new position relating to the revenue of the Budget Fund. The revenue from the budget of the Republic of Serbia shall be determined by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 and by the resources achieved by participating in the financing of the earnings of persons with disabilities in the company for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities or social enterprises and organisations, i.e. the measure to promote employment, professional rehabilitation or other intentions in accordance with the law, proposed amendments and additions in Article 1 or with amendments and additions provided for in Article 26 of the basic law. It is very important to note that Article 5 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities makes amendments to the words relating to the application of State aid rules for compensation, additional employment costs for persons with disabilities and other State aid rules in the exercise of the right to refund the eligible costs, the adjustment of the job of persons with disabilities employed under special conditions. In particular, I would point out that these changes and additions determine the level of income subsidies in employment on a fixed period of time for people with disabilities with no working experience of up to 75% of total profit costs with corresponding contributions to compulsory social insurance, but no more than the minimum earnings established in accordance with labour regulations. This subsidy is implemented by applying State aid rules for the employment of persons with disabilities and other State aid regulations necessary for the application of State aid rules for the employment of persons with disabilities. I must point out another fact that is very important and which is one of the essentials of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which is that the words "Penal Payment" are replaced by the words relating to the payment of 50% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia. According to the latest data carried out by the Republic of Republic statistics authority, more specifically the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the solutions provided for in this proposal of the law will affect the regulation of the area of allocation of funds to economic operators in the context of the application of the rules on the granting of State aid and, consequently, the control of the flow and the purpose of spending of funds directed to assist those entities who need it through. First of all, it is important to repeat here, that the most important thing is that the funds that are intended are properly spent in such a way that they are directed where they are supposed to be and that we try to help both economic operators and through them directly to persons with disabilities. It represents our obligation from every point of view, first of all, to moral and then to each other. Every man, and especially disabled workers, has certain values and certain potential, a certain human quality, and it needs to be specifically directed and exploited. Their knowledge, skills, experiences and abilities can be of invaluable importance to the company and its business. We need to ensure that human and civil rights of persons with disabilities are as much as the rights and fundamental freedoms of all citizens. Unfortunately, in our areas, it is rare that people with disabilities are being discriminated against on the basis of disability. This is definitely a step forward. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and I hope this process of improving the situation of people with disabilities will continue with major steps. I am taking the opportunity to invite you all to support this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in the day of voting, because these changes and additions seem a major step forward in improving the situation of persons with disabilities. Also, I'm taking the opportunity to remind all of you again that I want to believe that this is just a start that will further engage to solve this issue, at all levels lead to far greater results and give our endangered citizens a chance to live as a whole developed world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14538	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14539	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the ministry, Mr. Minister, it is important that today we discuss this law, which, in my opinion, has brought significant changes to the employment and work of persons with disabilities. During my 20-year career, I have been involved in working with people with disabilities and a number of years in my political career, and I am also committed to working on this issue, so that with full responsibility, on my behalf and on behalf of the URS, I can say that we are proud of what society has done in recent years to improve the position of persons with disabilities. First of all, I have in mind the fact that persons with disabilities have become visible in our society, that society has changed its awareness of the possibility of an inclusive approach, i.e. the active participation of persons with disabilities in all areas of society, to certain changes that we have made in the field of education and, of course, before and beyond all, in the area of reducing discrimination and in the field of employment. I took part in the process of adopting the Employment Act, and the URS were in charge of an area that was then engaged in employment, so once again I want to repeat that this process was not easy, but that it has produced significant results. I'm not going to talk about what were the solutions that the Employment Act has made, which are the new system solutions that this area has arranged, but I'm going to say, first of all, that he is significant to me because he has introduced a significant change in this area. From the passive relationship of a person with disabilities they moved into an active relationship and from exclusion to active inclusion in the world of work. That's what makes me the biggest contribution of this law. But what are his effects today, after a few years of his application? Already in the first year of law-making, the unemployed persons with disabilities were 21,733. After six months of law enforcement, this number has been reduced by 1371 people. This trend has continued over all these years, and what I particularly want to point out is that in the first year, the number of people looking for a job has increased by 364 people. These data may seem contradictory. On the one hand, the number of unemployed has been reduced, and on the other hand the number of job seekers has increased. Yes, because it was just an effect of the law. Our goal was to raise the number of people with disabilities who would actively engage in job search and that is the goal that I would say has been achieved. What my colleagues said, I won't say again. It is clear that the labour market for people with disabilities is characterized by very low expertise, even 77% of people with disabilities are low education. However, after the law was passed, the number of people with disabilities was increased, with a fourth-degree and high school looking for a job. This means that there is likely to be an increase in the degree of education, but also the activation of those who had this education, and they didn't think they could find a job. So the employment rate has increased by 66.8% in the first six months, but this trend of increasing employment is being maintained all these years. I want to say that 77% of employers have applied the law in such a way as to resort to the employment rate. It is not true that most employers were paying for penals or fines, but rather most employers, 77% of them were defined for employment, which was the tendency of the law. In a survey conducted among people with disabilities who found work in this period in a process that is not easy, which implies assessing their job skills, adapting their jobs, employment, a very large process, over 80% said that the institution that helped them most was the National Employment Service. 98.7% of them said we had no discrimination at the workplace. Is that so? We don't know, but the fact is that the process of work and that only participation in the process of work makes people feel less discriminated against and that their subjective sense of discrimination is significantly lower. These changes we're talking about today will not be considered in detail due to lack of time. For me, the most significant change in this law is the alignment with the average income at the level of the Republic and what I would say is particularly important is that instead of a refund of earnings, we now have a subsidy. The subsidy is an expression we don't like to hear these days. The subsidy somehow associated with the money going out of the budget. This is about the same money that's in the fund. There will be no additional costs, not that there will be additional costs for the budget, but instead of a refund we now have a subsidy. What exactly does that mean for those who hire people with disabilities? That means they don't have to pay off the profits first, and then the state refunds them to some extent. It was precisely this term that caused the problem because the rehabilitation and employment companies of people with disabilities did not have enough money to pay their salaries, pay their profits, and pay their taxes, and then pay them back the state. Now we're going to have a much more flexible measure that will allow for greater dynamics in this area and I think it will bring a significant improvement in business conditions for people with disabilities. What's also a change is that this subsidy can move up to 75% of the profit and it can't be more than 50% of the average profit. Since I come from Leskovec and represent the citizens of this region, I will tell you that in addition to what this is, an area which is otherwise poor, we in Leskovec have one company for professional rehabilitation and training persons with disabilities and Mr. Minister, I give you their greetings. It's a company called "Universal" that has big business problems. As I said, I'm also professionally related to them, since I believe that most of their employees just went through my office when I was working as a psychologist who was evaluating their abilities. I'll tell you that it's a parent-supervised company with children with developmental disorders, that she'll have some perspective in life and that after she's finished school, she'll find a job right at the Universal. This company employs 96 employees, of which 65 are persons with disabilities and moss are then young, and now already people with mental disturbances, which is one special feature, given that their work performance is certainly lower than people who have disabilities in physical development, and are mentally preserved. The company is 100% state-owned. It deals with the production of plastics, furniture, etc. I'm not gonna waste any time on that right now. I want to tell you what their basic problems are. It's, first of all, lagging debts, unpaid earnings, precisely because of this refund problem I was talking about. They had to pay taxes to the state, and only afterwards did they wait for you to refund their funds. The refund couldn't even come, because they didn't pay off the profits and they simply turned round the liquidity, which led them to the blockade. Because they're in a blockade, they can't apply to tenders, they can't get jobs and they just can't move on. I ask you to keep in mind not only this company from Leskovec, but also other companies for professional rehabilitation, which are facing such problems and that we try to get everyone together, of course, in collaboration with the Ministry of Economy, which is also responsible, given that these companies operate as business entities and under the Business Entity Act, so sometimes they don't know what their competent ministry is, so that we all make the effort that existed in the previous period, that the problems of these companies are solved, that they start off with some healthy basis, given that many of them are in the restructuring process, as is the company "Universal", to find a solution that they would continue to work, given that the potential for healthy business have. With the hope that this law will help remove the interference I was talking about, the U.S.S. and I will personally support the amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14540	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14541	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, gentlemen of the Ministry's fellow Members, honourable MPs, I would like to begin by showing one satisfaction that according to the debate that has been under way so far, it can be concluded that most of the MPs in this House today support this bill, which joins some of the other laws that we have discussed and discussed these days, which are also experiencing almost unanimous support in parliament, which I believe is a very good phenomenon. In my view, it points to two things: one commitment by all parliamentary parties to accept all those legal solutions that are heading towards improving the situation of the population, regardless of the category, but moreover to one effort by the ministries in the government to just give progressive solutions spotlessly reacting to various social situations that are just going towards improving the positions of individual categories of population and solving problems that otherwise exist. It is certain that there are significant problems in our society today, but step by step, we are systematically trying to solve and solve these social phenomena that burden us and their ultimate goal, in my opinion, should be a better environment in the country in which we live. Today there is a new law before us, which speaks of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people, and I think it is significant for several reasons. This is about population categories, which are in their own position and position such as to demand increased family attention and increased social support. The situation of these persons is more difficult compared to all other categories of population and this support that is provided, whether in the family or in society, must be systematically related to the overall process of training of these persons, to their socialization, to participation in the work and therefore to ensuring the availability of work for all. In view of the prevalence of this phenomenon, i.e. the number of people with disabilities, and as said in previous discussions, in Serbia 6.5% of the age of 20 to 60, i.e. 700,000 to 800,000 people, this points to a great commitment that we all need to have together to monitor their position, and in particular the obligation of the ministry to come up with measures and solutions to ensure that this part of the population is adequately qualified for independent life, because in such a situation they do not remain social cases and only on social security, but they become active factors of their lives. They become active in the social life of their family, and they are certainly also a significant resource in the lives of the entire society and the whole state, which is also positive from that point of view. When we talk about the position of these people, it's been mentioned here multiple times that these people are the most common people in the lower social category so far. We often say they spend their lives in poverty. I would stress here that something that is probably expected in the coming period to a much greater extent is that there is this active struggle of society for their social inclusion and inclusion in all forms of social life and especially the need to create new forms of education and new methods that would enable them to work in accordance with their mental and physical abilities. The reason for this law was simply interpreted as not publishing average earnings in the Republic of Serbia and increasing the need for active measures to stimulate this area. This law follows the previous law that was passed several years ago, which regulated this area, presented as a topic of the day, as a topic of the public and asked everyone to place the total position of this part of the population at a much more significant active level. Today's bill of law requires solutions to improve such a position. From that point of view, I think he means every kind of support. Also, when we talk about these or similar laws, I think we should go in the direction of resolving the issue of improving this part of the population in accordance with their needs and listening to the suggestions of the Citizens' Association that are very active in this area and try everything they feel as their life's need to translate into practice and thus facilitate their life and work. Every time we talk about this and similar solutions, about the bill's proposals, what it achieves, and therefore I think that the additional quality of such, even a few elements of the laws that are being changed, the presence of this topic in the public, its overall public support, the network that will surely follow that development, which I think is very important, the overall support they receive, as well as the expansion of the presence of the employer's obligation to actively involve, with the default incentives that the state has. This is exactly what the right to engage through the work, which I spoke about earlier, of course, from the point of view of their ability for certain professional activities. The current law provides termological harmonisation, but also new legal solutions that I consider to be better and more acceptable, then, enable these people to work and life from their own work, not just from social assistance and from the help of the family. Their active role enables the exploitation of their abilities and feelings of personal value and importance both within the family and in society, which then affects their health status as well, which also indirectly affects the costs of the health budget that are imminent. The change in the position of businesses and employers, which is stimulated not through the payment of foam but through, I consider it active, or stimulating measures, I think it's important here and it's going to have some positive effects. The aim is, in any case, to create wider opportunities for the employment of disabled people, not to prevent them, to eliminate them or to bring them to a lower level. The status of businesses and their survival are of course at stake, but I believe it is our obligation to go in the direction of their incentive and their development. In any case, with this debate and this kind of relationship, we show that we come into the ranks of a responsible society that responds to certain social phenomena. It also shows that there is a responsibility, unity of political parties in resolving current issues, and provides opportunities for today, just on 2 April, on the International Day of Persons with Autism, to discuss these topics. I would support everything in this law regarding the application of active social policy measures, the finding of a solution to the protection of persons with damages, their socialisation, their employment and training for work. They would support all those measures that are an incentive for the rehabilitation companies of people with disabilities in their employment. The right to a subsidy, provided by this law, gives more rights than they have ever been before, and not to reduce them, as in some discussions, I think, any words. Encourage every employer to employ disabled persons, in any case, to further develop and support. All of this completes one legal framework, circles the system and improves the position of businesses. This whole package of measures allows faster and better employment of disabled people, excuse me, disabled people, with the help of the state. All such measures and efforts by either this ministry or other ministries, I think that, in this assembly, they will definitely come upon support in the future. Thank you for these suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14542	Thank you. National MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14543	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, this law that is before us today belongs to the Corps of Law, whose adoption of our country is nearing the European community of the people. The character of this law is clearly human and anti-discriminational. It comes from Article 27. UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I quote: "The states of the signatories recognise the right of persons with disabilities to work on the basis of equality with others. This includes the possibility of earning a living, doing a job that was freely selected or accepted on the labour market and in a working environment that is open, inclusive and accessible to people with disabilities. "This law regulates incentives for employment and the creation of conditions for equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market. The law regulates, as we have heard, in addition to the obligation to employ persons with disabilities and to assess work skills, professional rehabilitation, conditions for the establishment and exercise of the business for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and other special forms of employment and employment of persons with disabilities. It is unquestionable to adopt such a law, Serbia places itself in line with countries that have a more humane treatment of persons with disabilities, in terms of equal opportunities to exercise their rights, including the right to work. What I want to say at this point is two things. One is the need to adjust speech, especially in equal business to public insight. The second is employment in the Republic of Serbia, in a situation of destroyed industrial production. I think it is necessary to adopt a correct dictionary, which would adequately describe the characteristics of persons with disabilities, in a way that would not be offensive to them and their families. The employer when he emphasizes in his ad that he is looking for a disabled person, not only is it his legal obligation, but he in general lists the characteristics that sometimes sound offensive to some, so there is a reaction of various associations of people with disabilities and their loved ones. It is known that the employer in the ad states that he is looking for a slightly retarded person or person he describes as a mobile invalid, so there is a reaction that they really don't belong, since in a particular case it's about an employer who is himself with disabilities, and the nature of the job requires a person with a disability of the type, as it is mentioned, just clumsyly engaged. I believe that the human character of this law should be rounded up by a correct dictionary, with the recommended terms that would not cause negative reactions, because here they are completely excessive and, of course, there is no room for negative connotation. The other thing is hiring at all. There are various opinions in the public on the employment of people with disabilities. Everywhere competitions for new jobs are opened and people with disabilities are mentioned, and this is particularly expressed in comments on portals, where controversy is often said to be employed by persons with disabilities, and it is better to have persons with disabilities, to provide for some income that would allow them to have such an existence, and that it is better, in which case, to sit at home. I think that kind of attitude is unsustainable for a number of reasons. Every person, but every single person, when he sits at home, whether he receives some material compensation or not, feels less valuable and useful than when he works and attracts. This applies to everyone, not just people with disabilities. Some research done in the West says people with disabilities are very committed to the work they do. This is explained by various causes where psychological moments dominate, and one aspect of them is mentioned before. This speaks in favour of justification for the need to pass such a law. Here we are talking about the equal treatment of all citizens and their equal opportunities for human rights, including the right to work. My discussion focuses on the advocates of the legislator and the political option I belong to, the necessity of providing conditions for a truly equal treatment of all citizens of the country of Serbia, which I deeply agree with. So I welcome the announced re-industrialisation that needs to bring more work for everyone. In that case, when there are more jobs, there will also be relatively more opportunities to hire people with disabilities. In this way, people with disabilities will not experience themselves as someone who threatens someone's existence, but rather, by creating an ambience of tolerance, a suitable ground is created for the real inclusion of people with disabilities, for which assumptions are created by the adoption of these amendments and the addition of laws that are now on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14544	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14545	Dear President, Vice-President, Minister Krkobiæ, with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in several speeches, I will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, observed from only one angle. Our previous colleagues, Vesna Jovicki and Mirjana Dragas spoke in detail about the law, the situation in the area, the measures taken and the ones to be taken, so I won't stick to it. I'd like to observe the amendment and addition of the law from one angle only. To remind ourselves, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted in 2009, was intended primarily to enable inclusion in the world of work of persons with disabilities, and then of course in all other areas of social life. So the goal was to create conditions to allow people with disabilities to get involved in the world of work to get hired, to move from a state where they get into a state where they give. I'm very glad, Mr. Minister, that you started your one-number exposure today, that 9150 has been employed since the application of the law. I mention that number once again, because when the law was passed then it was estimated, explaining the need for law-making to expect effects from seven to nine thousand. Today we heard the data - 9150. All confessions for one good law and, of course, work to enforce that law. What is this angle that I wanted to use to watch these changes and supplementals? That's exactly what I'm The law at the time put the first plan to employ and then alternative solutions. This is the angle I wanted to mention again today, that changes and additions to the law remain that way, so it doesn't touch the goal of hiring the most important person with disabilities, creating an opportunity to earn for himself, not to gain from the state. The amendments and additions to the laws that are here before us clearly indicate that it remains that way. Therefore, it should be supported, i.e. the proposed changes and additions. In fact, we remember when the Law was passed that the measures that were taken in terms of the adoption of measures and the activities of professional rehabilitation, the measures directed towards the individual, to the family, to the employer, to the wider social community. But in addition to the fact that the Law then predicted and I can say so, favoured employment, of course I speak favored for these reasons that I was just talking about, hiring people with disabilities and that under general conditions when the defined obligation of the employer to hire a certain number of persons in a working relationship. Why do I mention this? I note that it remains for this purpose, the employment of persons with disabilities under general conditions when neither the workplace changes, when neither the job nor the job is changed, and under special conditions when both the job and the job are changed and, of course, a special part of the law that speaks of special forms of business for professional rehabilitation. In short, the employer had three ways to fulfill his obligation. What I said was main, to hire. Everything else is alternatives. So, if he can't for any reason, then he can't participate in funding profits in companies where that activity is, it's now a change instead of 50% of the average in the economy, now 50% of the average per employee, the average in the economy no longer exists for two years. Another option would be to enter into a contract with such an undertaking, either through procurement or in some other way at the level of 20 average profits in the economy now per employee and thus meet that obligation. The third option would be to pay the penalty in a triple amount of minimum earnings if he didn't do any of these. Penalties are excluded by amending the Law, i.e. those provisions are deleted. It remains a corporate obligation if it cannot employ 50% of the average earnings as the sole obligation. There are no major changes that will go to the expense of employers. The state subsidized those employers that if they employed indefinitely she paid him 12 months, subsidized profits. However, it was minimal, and now it's 75% of the profit, but no more than minimum and that, since it's according to regulations, there would be no delusion I think, Mr. Minister, that it would take a little bit more of that detail to clarify to the public that it doesn't turn out to be something that can be problematic, etc. Another type of incentive was cost-refunding, job-adjustment when employed under special conditions. On the one hand, it was an obligation, and on the other side of the subsidy. When it comes to special forms, business dealing with professional rehabilitation is a major change between a refund and a subsidy, because the refund is something special, something that's been given, so I pay you back. I subsidise at 75% of all costs, not more than 50% of the average salary per employee, to hire such a person with disabilities. So that I don't owe you much more than anyone who knows better, I'll end up with what I started with. What was the obligation of the law? To carry out primarily their employment, and only then other alternative ways. The amendments and additions of the Law have preserved that direction, as employment remains the first priority. I've already mentioned how important it is. Even if it's important for the employer, it's better for him to earn a person with disabilities than to pay the other one. The point of the whole law is to put a person with disabilities first, to enable them to earn their own money, and because of this direction that remained they deserve full support of the proposed amendments and additions of the Law. I see from today's debates that it will be one broad support. When it comes to the alternative, when funds are provided, these funds are not taken by the state but collected in the budget fund, so they return to incentives for employment and return through the effects of hiring people. From what I understand today, someone mentioned a two-billion-dollar figure. It's not that small. In the end, with the full support of this one only one warning, one detail that is not on the agenda today. We have a report from the Commissioner for Equality. Discrimination against people with disabilities is the biggest of all discriminations. I have to remind you, because the data says that the most complaints were about discrimination against people with disabilities, and only then national belongings, half. To warn why. The ban on discrimination against persons with disabilities is one of the basic principles of the law we are talking about in Article 2 of the basic law. One warning that as a state that shows one responsible relationship with these people, we must take care of it. I'm going back to the beginning. Full support for the Bill's Amendments and Supplements proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14546	Thank you. The SPS MP's time available is three and a half minutes. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14547	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, the adoption of the 2009 Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, prescribed special conditions for employment and active inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market, and then for the first time the employer's obligation to hire persons with disabilities was introduced. Following consultations with representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, concerning amendments and additions to this law, the SPS parliamentary group submitted three amendments to the proposed solutions and we will discuss this in detail. Of course, all the proposed solutions are a step forward to improving the situation of persons with disabilities. These changes create greater opportunities for employment, for professional rehabilitation, for requalification of disabled persons, for removing mental and physical barriers and for allowing these people to have an equal position in society. The qualification structure of people with disabilities is unfavourable in the Republic of Serbia. All 7% of people with disabilities have high skills, and many people are either low qualified or qualified, and for these reasons employers are not able to meet the legal obligation relating to the employment of persons with disabilities. Based on the national employment strategy for 2011-2020, the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has been educated as the central institution of measures and activities of professional rehabilitation. Institutional strengthening and strengthening of the capacities of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, as well as ensuring the availability of services to a greater number of users is a challenge that requires the establishment of a network of centres at regional level. The Socialist Party of Serbia wants to propose to the National Employment Service on this occasion that special attention should be paid to the training of employers who, out of ignorance, question competitions for people with disabilities and in the text of the competition, use a discriminatory dictionary. The time I have left, or my MP's group, I would use to defend myself to you, Minister. We support your willingness and willingness by the Ministry to continue with the policy of improving the position of persons with disabilities. On the basis of the SPS protocol and the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia, signed last year by SPS President Ivica Dacic, I address you on behalf of all members of this organisation, and also as a National MP, to respect the needs of persons with disabilities for whom changes and additions of the law are important, above all the Family Law in order to improve support in achieving a partial business capacity, the Family Support Act with children to provide greater financial and other support to families of children and persons with disabilities and the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. On this occasion, I would like to ask you to consider, in the next period, the possibility of making new laws, in particular, laws on organisations of persons with disabilities, which is more than necessary in the view of the association. The adoption of this law, apart from the better position of a disabled person, will improve the way they are organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14548	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14549	Mr. Chairman, Mr. General, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is very important for at least five reasons. The first reason is that it will contribute, which we in some way, as MPs, attach importance to one of the most sensitive categories of the population, which is a human act and a civilization step. Second, it will alter the irregular relationship only with some employers in relation to people with disabilities. Third, it will contribute to the creation of a positive social climate according to this sensitive category of our people, which will speed up the achievement of the legal rights of people with disabilities. Fourthly, it will contribute to the harmonisation of our rules in this area with EU regulations. Fifthly, it shows the ruling coalition's relationship, headed by the SNS, towards such a sensitive category of population. I express my full support, Mr. President, for this draft law on amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The very fact that this bill on amendments and amendments to the law is on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proves that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this National Assembly contributes to an extremely significant activity and to this very sensitive category of population. By harmonising this law with the rules on granting state aid, the amount of funds provided for in the appropriate purpose of encouraging employment of persons with disabilities and maintaining their employment in enterprises shall be harmonised. At the same time, it provides for the right to grant instead of, as determined by the current way, a refund on the earnings of persons with disabilities. This proposal will have a positive impact on the regulation of the area of allocation of funds to economic operators, in the sense of full application of the rules on the granting of State aid, and thus on the control of the so-called spending of funds aimed at providing assistance to those entities in need. Also, ladies and gentlemen, it will have a positive impact on those employers who had an obligation to hire disabled persons, who did not perform this obligation in time, and in the process of tax control, the administration with such employers charged prescribed pences and established penalties, by applying the tax procedure and the tax administration. These changes limit the necessary 50% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia, and according to the particularly published data from the republican authorities. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to give special attention to children with developmental and disability disorders, which we haven't talked about here today. The situation of these children with developmental and disability disorders has not changed significantly in 2012 compared to 2011, although the state is making huge efforts to transform the social protection institution and children and to provide additional support to the child with disabilities in development and education. What is very important, unfortunately, in Serbia, there are no reliable data on the number of children with developmental and disability and children suffering from severe, rare diseases. Without this data, it is impossible to plan quality support measures and help this sensitive category of our population. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, largely responsible for this condition, which we do not have a list, is borne by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and this Ministry of Labour, etc. I urge it to be done. The inclusion of children with developmental difficulties in the education system is burdened by many weaknesses and shortcomings that I will not talk about, but I think we have entered this process unprepared and sometimes very irresponsiblely treat such children, but also children where the inclusion is being carried out. There is no progress, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the situation of children's families with disabilities and developmental disabilities, because families who are directly concerned with children who need direct care do not get the relatively appropriate support of society, so that children with disabilities remain in families, which the Republic of Serbia has set as one of the objectives of institutionalising, or transforming resident institutions for children. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this labour ministry, represented by Mr. Krkobic, should make a lot of efforts to improve this category of population. In a few sentences, I'll just say what I should do next. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is not applied to a sufficient extent, ladies and gentlemen. The responsibility for this is borne by inspection bodies in ministries, not only of work and social policy, but also of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. Employers are reluctant to hire people with disabilities. Let us ask ourselves why, and let us answer ourselves. It is not the ministry, nor did the state remove systemic obstacles to increased employment of disabled people. Unfortunately, we didn't bring a strategy to improve the position of disabled persons, at least I don't know that the report says that our Citizens' Protector has not been adopted. I'm sorry if it's in the meantime, but it's not for 2012. There has been insufficient implementation of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities by the inspection authorities, in other words, by state authorities. Furthermore, I will not count any further activities that the ministry should carry out. I hope that's what they'll do. Just proof of changes and additions to the law is proof that this ministry intends to implement these measures in the end. Ladies and gentlemen, persons with disabilities in refugees and displaced persons survive the most drastic situation in both psychological, economic, social and any other sense. We have not said a word about that category today in this congregation. For deep human, deep human, for deep patriotic and civilizational reasons, please, Mr. Minister, pay attention to the position of this most endangered part of our people. Just these days, in the last 10 days, with the carelessness of municipal and city authorities, refugees in collective housing in Kotez survive tragic days, due to the inability to leave the barracks in which they are placed, from sewers. That's where the real environmental disaster is going to happen. Addressing the authorities in the municipalities, in the city institutions and in the Republic of refugee commissioners, has run out of results. On behalf of human goals, on behalf of these refugees and displaced, I call on the city and municipal authorities to intervene urgently. The Serbian Progressive Party, in voting day, of course, will support this law and I call on all of you, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, regardless of the party, regardless of political confidence, to vote for this bill, in order to, in some ways, help remove the shortcomings that have been happening to this most vulnerable category of our population. That, I guess, is our commitment to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14550	The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14551	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Vice-President, dear fellow Members of the People, today we are talking about an extremely sensitive topic, as in the Strategy for the Reduction of Poverty of Persons with Disabilities, they are assessed as a category of population on the lower scale of poverty and social exclusion. In addition to poverty, in addition to the material disadvantages of disabled people, it is often our environment that makes access to basic services difficult or even impossible. At the same time, people with disabilities have difficulty in education, difficulty in accessing work, capital, and worrying about us, MPs, is that in this category there is an extremely reduced participation in decision-making. Although in Serbia we can often boast of a rounded legal system in many areas, this area is also covered by the law on the prevention of discrimination, the strategy to improve the situation of disabled people, and this law that is before us today, for the employment of disabled people. At the same time, we face major problems in everyday practice. What is very important is that by our activity, especially the National Assembly, which is one of the most monitored institutions of our system, it is very important that our speech, our behavior, our actions break stereotypes and contribute to reducing discrimination against people with disabilities. If there were discrimination, I remind you of a report delivered by the trustee for the protection of equality, which says that of all the complaints received in 2012, the largest number of complaints is in relation to disability discrimination. Almost 20% of the complaints in last year were based on this. The most common are complaints about public services, a total of 76 complaints, or the use of facilities. There are a lot of complaints about the work of the authorities, but also 14 complaints refer to discrimination based on disability in the field of labour and employment. The law before us, whose changes we are considering today, was passed in 2009. It's been in use since 2010. So today we're talking about applying from practically three years, is the time in which we could analyze his results and it's encouraging that more than 9,000 people with disabilities are employed under this law, but the fact is that a large number of people with disabilities who remain at home without a job. Persons with disabilities are very often concerned exclusively with their families, so social assistance and positive action in this area is necessary. Today we are talking about changes that have practically been made from compliance with other regulations, what with the law and regulation on state aid control, and the strategy for the development of official statistics. What's practically new in this is that by adopting these changes, there will be no more penals for those who fail to meet their obligations under the law. I can join my colleagues, that maybe a positive action will contribute more than punishment, but it's a very interesting piece of information that we found in the explanation of the adoption of this law, that, on this basis, we are aware and we see daily examples of large collectives, and unfortunately, there are also state authorities, and I would ask whoever did the employer's role here in the National Assembly – did the National Assembly hire a person with disabilities? We see, it is obvious that the infringement is large, and it appears that in the budget fund, according to this basis, only one percent of the funds have arrived, which is negligible and complicated for control and monitoring, so, given that this measure is proposed to be abolished. But instead, we should find a way to encourage further employment of disabled people. It is not a goal, nor a wish, for all disabled people to be employed in enterprises for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. It is precisely the goal of being competitive in the labour market. Normally, the beginning isn't the moment you teach an application for employment. The beginning starts, normally, from education, from identifying the right profession and profession. All of this is done by an integrated process and we are the problem of employment at all, and especially by these vulnerable groups, we cannot look at it differently, but in the context of education and training for work. What I would draw attention to and what I propose to the MPs, given that there is a "green network of MPs", that there is a "The Network of Women of Parliament", which I hope we will have common understanding and follow this area, is that we make one similar network, that is, that MPs who are interested in helping, and that a large number of MPs are interested in helping in this area, both in improving all the rules relating to the situation of persons with disabilities and in applying these regulations. What I would draw attention to, is that when implementing a legal obligation, employers tend to opt for the employment of disabled people for whom there is no need to adapt their jobs. It means for disabled people, easier categories. The most difficult jobs are to employ disabled people, who are harder to move and where jobs should be adapted and where physical escorts or assistance should be provided, so that they can get to work. The environment we live in is extremely difficult to move people with disabilities. You can't get into the building or get out of the building. You can't go into business space. You don't often get into state organs. Even when you're allowed an appropriate entry for disabled people, you can't access the building because they forgot to drop the bank. It often happens to us that there is only one downhill on the sidewalk in the area and you will find someone parked in that way, and that does not allow people with disabilities to move. No urban means of transport is adapted to people with disabilities. Then, entering into work, moving, space that is necessary, and absolutely all other conditions that need to be adapted to people with disabilities. For these reasons, the law has done a lot of good things and the area is almost surrounded, but what's the problem is that we develop consciousness and that the law is applied and that the more we facilitate the movement of people with disabilities. In this regard, I point out what other MPs have pointed to, that the amendments we have submitted mainly stemmed from talks with the National Association of Persons with Disabilities who, you know for sure, all the MPs know, since they have contacted a large number of parliamentary groups, that there are more than half a million people with disabilities in this national organisation. So that's one big group of our citizens who has appropriate suggestions and suggestions. Please, once again, Minister, to consider these amendments, except for one that has been accepted, we have seen the Government's opinion, we ask for your understanding, because they essentially don't change much of the law, and obviously these amendments would contribute to a better understanding and better application of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14552	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14553	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is certainly one of the reform laws in the field of social policy and certainly is a law aimed at bringing the EU standards closer to that part of the most sensitive category of our population, which is precisely people with disabilities. The aim of this law is certainly to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities through their employment and through active social policy measures. Of course, through the employment policy of people with disabilities, there is also a reduction in the poverty of families from which people with disabilities come. Of course, no law is ideal, but when the law is passed, first of all, the real situation, as well as that through the law in an adequate way, all the needs of those to whom the law applies are met, and these are persons with disabilities. I will not elaborate other laws, which, from their point of view, treat the needs of people with disabilities, which is the Social Protection Act, which proposes a whole network of support and development of social protection services at local level, which concerns meeting the needs of people with disabilities. I won't even refer to the Law on Education, which suggests the inclusion of disabled people. I won't look back on the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which also treats the problem of people with disabilities. I will now focus only on this law on employment of persons with disabilities, although I firmly stand on the view that the ministries between themselves should co-operate and that all these laws, regardless of what the ministry adopts laws, and as regards persons with disabilities, should be harmonised. I also firmly stand on the point that in the adoption of all laws, and in particular the laws relating to the protection of persons with disabilities, they should be actively fragmented and actively involved in associations of persons with disabilities, precisely because they best recognise their needs and what they and how they can be in support of the adoption of adequate laws. As far as this law is concerned, the first objective of this law is to comply with official statistics, which is already the data that my fellow Members and colleagues have pointed out before me, which is the fact that the Republic Statistics Institute has not published since 2011 an average profit per employee. In that sense, it is about harmonising this law with data published by official statistics. Also, instead of a refund, a term is introduced, i.e. the obligation to grant state to enterprises for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Also, this law stipulates that the working protection of disabled persons is carried out by the labour inspectorate and that payment control amounts to 50% of the average earnings of those enterprises that do not employ persons with disabilities, is carried out by the tax administration in accordance with tax laws, i.e. in accordance with the tax administration. In fact, this law provides that employers with between 20 and 50 employees are obliged to receive one person with disabilities. However, if they pay 50% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic of Serbia, they have fulfilled their obligation. Also, other than this obligation to pay 50% of the average earnings per employee in the economy, employers who, in the context of public procurement or otherwise, carry out a financial commitment towards enterprises for professional rehabilitation and training in the amount of 20 average earnings per Republic employee, are exempt from the obligation to hire one person with disabilities over the next year. What I particularly want to praise is this proposed law, that employers who receive indefinitely intermittent employment relations with persons with disabilities are entitled to subsidies, up to 75%, including contributions to compulsory social security. The Serbian Progressive Party is taking care of the most vulnerable social groups. The most vulnerable social groups certainly include persons with disabilities. In voting day, we will support this bill. I still can't finish without pointing out that I'm from the Pryboy municipality, where he's at the National Employment Service, on Day 31. 12. In 2012, 55 people with disabilities were reported, 18 of them women. Among 55 people with disabilities there is one person with a college degree, it is a graduate economist and three persons with a higher professional background. I hope that through a program conducted by the National Employment Service, these four people with disabilities in Priboj will find employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14554	The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14555	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Vice-President, the Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, the purpose of the law, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to this Law, is to provide adequate practical assistance to persons with disabilities. That is why I fully support the proposal for this law and I hope that it will meet its purpose in the coming period. I would also like to stress that there has been so much need to prepare for the entry into the parliamentary procedure of this law. In fact, there was also a lack of understanding of certain MPs that not all the problems were seen enough. This law is subject to social dialogue, and in this regard the very active representatives of state bodies, trade unions and employers participated. I have to make a statement here and say that the full consent of the social partners has been reached. In that sense, this ministry and the government were not alone in the preparation of this law. It's supported by social partners. The second thing I'm saying is that the position of companies that employ 50% of people with special needs is in a very difficult situation. They are, on the one hand, committed to doing business successfully, and on the other hand, they are obliged to express full humanity toward people who do not have full working ability. For this reason, we need to pay particular attention to these companies that employ over 50% of these persons. It is also an answer to one of the advocates expressed here during the discussion, that there is not enough concern about such persons. These are enterprises that, in my deep conviction, need to endure one reorganisation. In this regard, in response to some of the exhibitions that were present, we offer solutions that will change the situation. It's social entrepreneurship. The ministry is preparing a law on social entrepreneurship and it will regulate many issues differently about this. In this regard, we do not need to talk more widely about it today, but in any case, all MP groups ask that, when the law is in the congregation procedure, we give some support and assistance. It is an answer to the question that this ministry or this government is not offering solutions. I must say that forecasts that, in accordance with the law being prepared, it is possible to employ tens of thousands of workers, not only persons with disabilities, but those who have lost their jobs, who cannot find jobs and other categories of socially endangered citizens of our country. In that sense, I think it is very important to note that this law will soon come to this Parliament and we will be able to express ourselves. At the very end, I am very pleased that the second time in this House, it has been recently, we are reaching a high degree of agreement on some of the issues that the government is offering, or this ministry. I express my gratitude to all the parliamentary groups, especially those who have given specific suggestions and suggestions, here I am particularly pointing out MP Omerovic and MP Trivan, who, even though the DS is in opposition, gave this support to concrete suggestions and suggestions. In the end, I say that our parliamentary group will support this law and vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14556	The word has the People's MP Tamara Tripic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14557	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time a law is found in front of us that has the position of persons with disabilities, we have to ask ourselves the question of how much we have helped and how far we have succeeded in achieving the goal of keeping these citizens on the verge of society, that they exercise their rights in full capacity, to live and create as the rest of the population. It is estimated that in the world today seven to ten percent of the world's population has some disability. That's about 600 million people to you. One in 10 Europeans has some disability of physical, sensory, mental or mental character. Of that, 50% of them are in their productive season. A large number of people with disabilities live in a climate of discrimination, prejudice, ignorance, often with unsatisfactory basic needs of life. Invalidity brings special difficulties to women, children, older and refugees. As early as 1993, by adopting UN standard rules by the General Assembly, the world left the concept of medical understanding of the disability problem. Today it is accepted that disability is a question of human rights. Also, the concept of guaranteeing equal rights for all has been modified by the concept of providing equal opportunities. I think the measure of every government's success is to allow citizens to have access to all segments of social life under the same conditions and equal opportunities. The government, in which the DS participated, was motivated by the idea of greater employment of people with disabilities and the inclusion of this part of the population in the country's labour process. Before the adoption of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, May 2009, there were various problems, both regarding the definition of disability, the establishment of the status of persons with disabilities, the assessment of their working ability, the active employment policy of persons with disabilities and the provision of funds for its realisation, the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the open-market world, but also in protected employment, then the status of enterprises for professional rehabilitation and their financing and many others. The existing Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities represented somewhere a logical continuation of the national strategy to improve the position of people with disabilities. Its adoption was necessary, however, because all research showed that persons with disabilities are categories of the population on the lower poverty and social exclusion scale. Here, of course, the question of the success of implementing this law is whether we are satisfied with the effects and whether we have managed to improve the conditions of these people's lives. A well-known internet portal published results of a survey on the employment of disabled persons carried out in November 2011. Research included 244 employers. Of this sample, 41% of companies employ people with disabilities. Companies that don't hire people with disabilities are different reasons. First, that the nature of work is not such that it can be done by people with disabilities. The workplace is not suitable for disabled persons, but we have 11% of companies that have been defined to meet the financial obligation under the business co-operation agreement with the company that employs disabled persons. According to the resolution ministry, 9,056 people with disabilities have been employed to date since the entry into force of this law. That's good. I think the law has justified somewhere the need for its existence, but we must not forget that, according to some estimates in Serbia, about 800,000 people with disabilities are currently living. I think and somehow I have a strong impression that they're still invisible to this society. Where are the problems to work? Of course, the first problem is to impose discrimination through speech, which through behaviour, the problem of access to information, information on rights, but of course physical barriers as a chronic problem in Serbia. In the field of education, we have a problem in the process of involving children with interference in the development of a regular school. In order for this process to be successful, I think it is necessary to adapt the methods of work in schools, to adapt space, but I also think, since I am a mother, that education of other children and his parents is necessary in order for this process to ultimately be successful. In the area of health care, it can be said that Serbia has relatively well regulated the area of health insurance and protection of people with disabilities. What needs to be done is to further deepen and bring all rights closer to people with disabilities, and of course in collaboration with organisations involved. It's not good that we have an ambulance that doesn't have a car with a wheelchair ramp. In addition, there are problems all of which are granted import licences for the aids they have today, and they don't already have spare parts tomorrow. So, there's still a lot of problems. In this sense, the state must continue to move the borders, allow all our citizens to enjoy their rights and thus assume and commit to care for themselves for their health, but also for their existence. The proposed amendments to the law harmonize the existing law with the State Aid Control Act, i.e. with the regulation on rules for granting state aid, as well as with the strategy for the development of official statistics, this part of which concerns not to see data on average income in the economy anymore, but per employee. Article 7 sets out the conditions for granting state subsidies, especially to enterprises for professional rehabilitation of disabled persons, which is a good solution. The only fundamental change is to delete a member of the 29th that provides for a pen for employers who do not employ a person with disabilities. The question is, are we dealing with the problem? Will it force or motivate the employer on the other hand to start hiring people with disabilities? I don't think that's the way. I don't think people with disabilities are accepted in society. Employers are openly determined to pay more to the state than to engage in adventures and employees of this country's citizens who only face certain circumstances of people with disabilities. To conclude, the Democratic Party hopes that the government will pay a little more attention to improving life and living conditions and achieving the concept of equal opportunities for people with disabilities. If the importance of these system solutions is not taken seriously, I fear that one part of our citizens will continue to live their lives away from the eyes of the public, locked in their homes and in their minds as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14558	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14559	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krkobic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the Assembly to be in an extraordinary session today because of the significant events that are happening in Brussels right now and that it is much more important than this topic. But you're the government, you're the ruling majority, you impose themes, and we'll talk about what you've imposed today as a topic. You know, Mr. Krkobic, this morning when I left for Belgrade from Kruševac, I met my neighbor. He has been disabled for many years and asks me – a neighbour, for Belgrade. What are you discussing today? Today we are discussing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons for Disabilities. He tells me – so there will be a choice as soon as the government remembers the pregnant and the disabled it is the best hint that there will be a choice. What are you unhappy about? What do you want and what do you throw? There's gonna be a choice but you haven't been informed yet, there's a lot of uninformed people in the O.R. (President: Please, gentlemen, don't get it.) ) The neighbor says: I have been disabled since birth, unfortunately, and a lot has changed in my life when it comes to how I was referred to. I was a disabled person, a person with special needs, with disabilities, again I am a disabled person, but above all, I am a man and I pray that when you discuss in Parliament the situation, the rights of a disabled person to understand first and foremost that we are human. I am absolutely confident from the discussion of all previous speakers that we really feel for this most vulnerable population among Serbian citizens here. Unfortunately, throughout Serbia's history, through the history of parliamentaryism, disabled people as a sensitive category were the category most often discussed before the elections, and very often empathy is aroused when it comes to our people remembering people with disabilities when they are apostrophe in this, for every society, very turbulent political times such as the elections. I am absolutely convinced that people with disabilities should be discussed not only in front of an election campaign, when it comes to elections. That laws should be passed that will essentially improve the position of disabled people. Not only do they fix it to be a letter in the law, but they really feel an improvement in the quality of their lives. The same neighbor asked me – how many members of the law you are discussing today. I told him he had 13 members. So there's definitely going to be a choice. A law that only has 13 members is a cosmetic law. A law with 13 members can bring certain improvements. You are essentially changing that Article 29 of the previous law in Article 4 where it is said that according to the State aid rules for the compensation of additional employment costs of persons with disabilities and other rules of state aid necessary for the application of the rules, etc. You're practically removing those pens that private entrepreneurs paid for when they didn't hire people with disabilities. But when we talk about employment, when we talk about the Republic of Serbia that has an army of 750,000 unemployed, it is best to see what the jobless position is and how the ruling majority is treated according to that population. You promised 100 billion foreign investments and could the country in which the ruling party promised 100 billion foreign investments, and provided only 100 million euros... (President: Please, Mr. Milivoevich, please return to the topic. Let go of the investment, come back to the topic. ) Let me ask you, Mr. Chairman, can the state of Serbia solve the problem of disabled people and unemployed if in 10 months this government is in charge of 3.5 billion euros, and only by foreign investment do we have 100m euros, and we have promised 100 billion? Of course we can't. That's what my colleagues in the SNS are saying to me. Of course, it can't and of course that this country and that society can't take adequate care of the disabled. Not a single silent speech can stab, not a single quiet sentence, you know, when they're silently saying they don't wake up the radicals in themselves. They can't, no matter how hard they try, they can't hide it. That's the topic to talk about. It is necessary to come to this Assembly, to this parliament, and to monitor what is current on that day. You can't hide on this subject that you're talking in Brussels today about your incompetence since 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14560	Mr. Millyvoy, please, just listen to me for a minute. As much as you try to sort of cover up your discussion and the purpose of your discussion, please leave party issues aside now. We're discussing a very important and sensitive law. I don't think it's appropriate for us to talk about anything else right now. So I'm asking you to go back to the law and then we're in the middle of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14561	Thank you for your suggestion. I'll try to understand myself, not so much you and I, you and I understand each other very well, and Mr. Krkobic and I just always understand each other wonderfully, and there's no problem in communication when he and the United Pensioners of Serbia are at stake with you, and I have a problem with what you're throwing at me, not because you're throwing it at me, but I have a problem with these questions, which I asked you, you have no answers, but you're looking at the floor. And you should be looking at the floor. When we talk about this law, you know, I understand very well the needs of our citizens who have a certain degree of disability, whether it's about the inability to move, whether it's about the inability to notice or other problems. Now that you look at the republican institutions in Serbia where all people with disabilities have access, where all those ramps are made or no ramps are made, it's good that every local self-government provides disabled people with the ability to exercise certain rights as citizens, because they end up paying taxes on what they earn and from that tax is funded by the state, but, you know, it's not all about providing them with just access to institutions, so much more needs that population. I have no problem voting for amendments to this law. It'll be good changes. I don't mind any of those changes, which this law only has 13 members. There are so many and it means that the previous law is well written and applied well in practice and that some irregularities have been identified in practice in this law, but again I have this problem to correct the situation of people with disabilities in Serbia when 750,000 people in Serbia are looking for work and how to fix the situation of people with disabilities in the state that the government has in just 10 months in charge of three and pô billion? When the alchemists of the ruling majority answer me, I will be absolutely convinced that you will solve the problems in this country. Since there's no answer, I think we're about to have an election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14562	Just one little comment for the public. It is about amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities with 55 members. These are additions to the law, members who change. More to the public, to know that the law has so many members. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14563	I don't know if I'm going to exactly quote that sentence, but Negos said, "Who's worse, now he's down, and who's down, he's getting up." It is not necessary to understand tragically this sinusoid through which every man in life goes through, and good and bad things, and power and opposition. What bothers me is that amount of bile, eat, hatred that spills here through every such speech. Will the bile and food and hatred of Serbian citizens live better? He won't. Is that what Serbian citizens expect? I don't think they're expecting it. From this parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia, all responsible people expect answers. They don't expect political kecherism, they don't expect hate, they don't expect food, they don't expect it. They don't expect us to do that. I'm not sure if I'm that smart and adequate that I can answer anything, but as far as these borrowings are concerned, the government will be very happy to come here and the finance minister can answer. But all these new borrowings were mostly to serve the one we found and all that rotten and every rotten board we've stepped on in the last eight months as government and as responsible people, and what we've come up against. No one's saying if those new debts were, if there were, and how many were there...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14564	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14565	If necessary, I will also use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14566	You have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14567	All right, I'm done with two sentences. Surely that money did not go to the service of burned, robbed, kidnapped money through Vojvodina Development Bank, through various banks, Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Funds or I do not know what kind of things that, as a flow water heater, went through the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because of this now that investigations, when the system institutions can do and do their work properly, is said to be – political rematchism. What's the price of this thing, the hate, that's shown in the previous speech?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14568	I will not allow this debate, which has been very argumentative, moderate, useful, to turn into a show and a fight between parliamentary groups. Please bring the end of the line. The word is Mr. Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14569	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Krkobic, with respect for you and your age, I will try to make this my last announcement on this subject today. Finally, respecting your expertise when it comes to the ministry you run and the experience you have, I can't help but answer. Mr. Krkobiæ, when I was in Vrlica, in Koljani, right there in Bukov Dolac, I heard a wonderful proverb – and the state bag is bottom, so when you tear up and break the bottom with the burden of these huge debts, then the whole country sees the bottom. You know, we're not here because we don't love you or we're jealous of you or we envy you for something. We're not criticizing you because you're in power, and we're in opposition, so we don't have a lot of work to do, but we're just criticizing you. We are merely criticizing your political action, your demagogy. I must remind you that you barely regained awareness of Zorana Mihajlovic at conferences for Serbian Progressive Party journalists when she announced on 31 December 2011 that the state debt had increased to 14 billion. Now that the state debt is 19 billion, you're nowhere to be surprised to be shocked. Listen to me. Last time I told you, I'm so shocked by the best anti-shock therapy for you, to show you in which way this Aflatecin government runs this country and this country. I have to do it not for you, because it's not worth telling you, or consulting you, but I'm doing it for the citizens who chose us. I have to inform the public in this country what an economic disaster this country is about. It can't cover any arrests, it can't cover up any imaginary affair, economic disaster and collapse are on our doorstep.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14570	The word has a folk MP, Borislav Stefanovic, so MP Zoran Babic, and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14571	I would also like to urge us to return to the agenda point, if possible, since my colleague Milivojevic spoke of some aspects related to the point. There were moments, to say the least accurate explanation of our overall poor economic and fiscal situation to which this authority contributed, but it seemed to me that it was unnecessary for a distinguished colleague from the ruling majority to use it, so it went into the already known menu, which they used, the accusations and the untruths and everything else related to the DS. That's the only reason I called. That repertoire of theirs, I think it shows a lot more that it has nothing to do with this part of the agenda. Let me tell you, if we were talking about pots and horticulture here, they'd be talking about some kind of thieves from DS, Vojvodina Development Bank, and then when someone answers them, they get angry. That's total nonsense. Didn't you say that your prosecutions are now in fifth gear, no one's sleeping alive, you have special teams, you have miracles, so go ahead, let people do their job and apply the law. No one normal in this country has anything against it. I just don't understand where this need to keep one party branding and giving lectures here, so whatever the agenda is. I think it's untasteful. We read you what old duties are, what interest is, what are new. We told you nicely in the figure, in the euro and that data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, not the DS. Be angry right now. Just explain what Quecherism is? I don't understand that term. I don't know what that means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14572	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14573	For the past four years, we've heard different excuses. The most dominant justifications why Serbia is having a hard time living, why are 200,000 promised jobs, jobless? I don't want to bid, but at least twice as much as what's promised jobs. And it was all the world's economic crisis. This government, this assembly majority can say freely -- it is the world economic crisis, but it is the previous government, whose policy is clearly seen in one sentence of the former prime minister who said -- Serbia has statistically come out of the crisis, but Serbia's citizens will not feel it. What do we care? Then who got out of the crisis? Such an irresponsible policy has led to changes in the polls, in the elections as they should, democratically, through will. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia have said one policy of good-bye, another policy of welcome and we will measure ourselves in the next elections, whenever they are, we are ready for the court of the public, in the court of the Serbian citizens, and we will always accept the electoral will. I don't know why my colleague, who spoke before me, found himself called when I spoke of various suspects, in various affairs, I didn't mention any party. I don't know why he found himself called. I don't know, really. But what the whole of Serbia knows is that with this policy and developing good neighbourly or not knowing what relations with "Nambia", and some countries like that, I think that DS is the only message that a colleague has often sent, in a previous session, when he spoke -- for the first twenty years, gentlemen in the opposition will get used to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14574	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Chairman, I hope that the same Rules of Procedure, which applied to my previous colleagues, will apply to me again, or I will be given the opportunity to apply the Rules of Procedure which did not apply to the previous speakers. I'll try to be on the subject and on the subject. Who'd be worse - he'd be down, I think my colleague Gundulic made a lapus. But I think even those who tap, that "Nambiu" will finally correct in Namibia, I haven't garnered, I haven't even mastered, I'm no problem. I'm a farmer. The agenda includes disabled people, or the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment, and I will try to talk about it. The thing is, I have to look into these choices a little bit, because they've been mentioned so many times, and I think it's my predecessor's wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14576	Mr. Risticevic, please leave the election. Go back to the agenda, I'll interrupt. Be sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14577	Wait a minute, it's got something to do with the disabled.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14578	Listen to me, please. If we want to be collegiate, listen to me. Let's hear from each other as people, please, for the sake of this law, and... Stop the election and get you to the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14579	Don't interrupt me in half a sentence. I didn't deserve anything. You've been very tolerant of the opposition, and I respect that. I was just trying to say that I understand the desire that when you talk about disabled people, someone is talking about the election because they can still cross the censorship. I won't talk about it anymore. As far as disabled people are concerned, it's a large population. There's 15% of them. Official statistics cannot determine that number for understandable reasons. There are various types of people with disabilities, from disabled workers, from disabled wars, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, from disabled people, The story of the disabled is the story of ourselves. It's hard to live today even if you're not disabled, and you can imagine how much difficulty the people we're discussing today face. It is true that the law has only 13 members, but all 13 members refer to amendments and additions made by the previous, ex-government, or former regime. The law was high-quality, and since it was not talked about, I will say that it primarily refers to the abolition of creepy pens that were intended for entrepreneurs, especially in the private sector, that those who do not comply with their obligations, unless they employ a disabled person, and there are 20 employees, and if every 50 employees are not hired by one disabled person, they are in addition to the obligation to pay around 22,000, are obliged to pay the penalty if they are late and do not do so by the 30th of the month. These 13 members were dealt with by the shortcomings which were the product of the past law and which applied creepy sanctions, primarily to the private sector and businesses. What is easy to determine is that the law we are talking about, when it was passed, did not seem to refer to the state public sector, but merely referred to the private sector, which was its lack. I think that the most comfortable jobs were in PTT, EPS, in public enterprises and institutions, where 105,000 people work, and in the general public sector there are 600,000 and I think that the provision for every 50 people with disabilities did not apply to the public sector, where it was primarily very harshly applied to the private sector and this law partially corrects itself. That's one of the reasons I'm voting for this bill. As president of the NSS, I must say that it is difficult to determine the number of people with disabilities, that there are persons with disabilities, above all in the country, who were not retired disabled at the time when they suffered health damage or physical damage. So most of them became disabled in handling machines without having adequate paid disability protection. So they're other disabled people who don't receive any disability due to their damage to the field work, with machines, tractors, where the most frequently injured hand. So these are disabled people who don't have any income first. On the other hand, with the rest of their health, with the rest of their bodies trying to work in fields, fields, and contribute, to create a social product without receiving any compensation. And even more so, as farmers, they don't have the right to refund the 75% or the average personal income, as far as I can see, from 22,000 to 30,000. So, in one hand, they were their own employers, on the other hand they were their workers, so even as their workers they had no privilege of having what other disabled workers have. On the other hand, as their employers, they did not have the right to refund, or to present incentives concerning the employment of persons with disabilities. I am obliged to say this, as well as that there are 8,000 people in Vojvodina, or 24,000 in Serbia's territory, disabled workers who are over 50 years old and who receive only 50% of pensions. The Vojvodina Association, the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities of Vojvodina, which I will forward to this ministry, requires that such pensioners who receive 50% of the disability pensions, and that is often 6,000 to 7,000 a month translate into full pension, because their position is worse than the social situation, because they no longer have anywhere to be employed. Most of them are over 50 and 55. They therefore asked me and other MPs to transfer the minister who deals with social issues to those 24,000 people with disabilities in Serbia's territory, and 8,000 in the Vojvodina territory to 55% of pensions in 100%, since they can no longer be so easily employed in those years, regardless of the relief this law gives to employers who employ people with disabilities. Also, I have to remind you, and you probably read the parable, like I did, written by our famous writer Lazarevic, "All these people will gold". It's about a disabled war, when war comes out, his father, the Kazang Blagoi, says that all these people will gold and then God will pay for it. However, such people with disabilities remained totally unkind. So there's today this kind of disabled that we can see on the streets at the beggars. I'm particularly concerned that sometimes it's wartime military people, regardless of what I don't think our laws are flawed, I think that our administration and procedures are very bad, that they go through a lot of obstacles, that they can't overcome it, and that many of the disabled can't take advantage of the rights that, by their condition of their health, or by their disability, could belong. I'll certainly support this law on professional rehabilitation, but here we need to know. So, what we've discovered is affecting both the healthy and the disabled. We have to say that the former regime that ruled for ten years, that is, the bearer of the former regime, which keeps reminding us of some past, and I have to say, over the past ten to 12 years, has almost mutilated our economic situation, and that this country, which is supposed to be carrying the whole social situation, is therefore, to sustain seven million people, thereby improving the state of the disabled, that it is with its economy today in such a state that it is a huge truck, in which you have a Fitz engine and so the vehicle can only go downhill. So what we found was a vehicle in such a state, which is hard to climb now, stop first of all in that hillside and then slowly start climbing it to make this country stand up once. So our economic perils are that only 350,000 people are currently working in the industry. These are the people who need to contribute to making this economy stand on its own and that this economy delivers money and that everyone from that economy is exercising their professional and social rights, hence the disabled. We didn't find such an economy. That's why I'm affected by the words of previous speakers that are unfounded. There is no kind of self-criticism, that someone who is this people and this country, the common man, has led to the position that he was completely exploited and thrown into the trash, that such political forces are giving us a lecture on how for six months we've ruined something that they've actually been ruining for 12 years and today when the state is in charge, first of all, is in charge of paying back those debts from loans and loans they've spent, not in the welfare of an ordinary man, but in the welfare of their political leaders and their tycoon friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14580	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14581	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Roma Party as part of the SNS Parliament Club is in any case supporting this bill. We'll be voting in the day, and I'll vote for this bill along with the members of the SNS Parliament Club. The fact that we vote is a consistent policy, a responsible policy towards socially endangered categories, not only at the time of the election, but also at a time when different laws are discussed. The Roma Party proposed an amendment to the Law on Civil Servants in 2007. I will read the text of that member of the law, which speaks of the following - the authorities of the state administration shall take care in accordance with the Constitution, laws and other acts implementing special measures in order to achieve full equality between the persons and the group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens. So here in a clear way we confirm that in 2007, when we talked about the Civil Service Act, we clearly saw that people with disabilities should be given special support, that state authorities should define specific measures of affirmative action. We in Serbian legislation today have such measures, we have a foothold in Serbian legislation that such measures of affirmative action towards people with disabilities are being implemented, and that is precisely on the basis of the amendments tabled by the people who are members of the SNS parliamentary club today. When we talk about this parliamentary club, we can't talk about someone who deals with these issues at the time of the election campaign or right after the election. We can really talk about a consistent relationship with this issue. What is extremely important to me in this law itself, and I suppose the motionary has thought in that direction, but I would like to make a clear comment that we understand Article 3 that is changing Article 28, and if perhaps we haven't all thought about it together, perhaps the result of this debate to contribute to the fact that we really have a view that is going to be closer to what I'm going to talk about. Discussions have shown that sometimes it is not enough just to pass the law. The discussion has shown that sometimes it is not enough just to have the means and directly encourage certain activities, and in this case directly encourage the opening of jobs for people with disabilities. Except for direct incentive, we have to support a number of other measures that are in place. These measures are also measures to change the social environment in which we live, measures to change the natural environment in which we live, measures to change the urban conditions in which we live. We thus understand the part of Article 3 which says that the revenue from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the funds of Article 26 of this Law are used to encourage employment. For us, this definition of "employment incentive" is one definition that needs a very broad definition to understand, a definition that should support the realization of all these measures, the realization of this law. It does not only refer to the incentive of a specific firm to obtain certain funds and to employ one person by means of these funds. Maybe we can do a lot more if by some means we encourage a general relationship to this issue, if we include one number of NGOs, one number of other actors who can contribute to the creation of a social environment, where we will all be more responsible for this issue. Also, we know two things. One thing is the relationship of private persons, private entrepreneurs to solving issues that are a first-class issue that proves social responsibility, and this is such a question for us. In that sense, every privateer doesn't have to have the same level of social responsibility, because people deal with opening up a company with another purpose. In that sense, I support your solution to make certain derogations to the law we have so far. But it can't be us, all the holders of state functions, all those who have responsibility and how the state authorities function, that we reduce our responsibility, that we don't solve it in the houses for which we took responsibility for their work. In this regard, I agree with my colleagues, who had previously agreed, that we first need to resolve the question of whether there are people with disabilities in the congregation, whether there are public administrations and in all institutions. I suggest that you, as a ministry, take certain activities, to actually record what kind of situation it is in terms of hiring people with disabilities and on the basis of hiring other categories that are socially endangered and essentially in a different economic situation, as we have said in the Law on Civil Service, to see what the situation is on this issue and therefore to define the concrete measures that will implement this act of law that you have spoken of and that we do not really have a situation, let me conclude, in the end, that when we talk about persons who are essentially in a different economic situation -- whether they are disabled, whether they are members of the Roma national community or someone else, that certain human rights institutions, such as certain human rights institutions, have no employees in these categories at all. They then give themselves the right to criticise all living, to criticise the private sector, and that those where they have responsibility do not act responsibly on the issue. This is what I'd like to conclude. Once again, I would like to say that we will vote in the voting day because of the very concrete amendments made by this law. He is a very important step in making Serbia a responsible state towards socially endangered categories, and surely we are talking about one such category today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14582	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Does the minister want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by the Vice-President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14583	Dear Members of Parliament and MPs, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I am truly impressed by the serious, argumentated and very caring discussion that you have been having this whole day about an important problem of this society, which is a category of disabled people for various reasons – the disabled category. If we are discussing all problems this seriously, we will certainly take a step forward, no matter how little we add to the debate and some cream on the cake, it is common in parliament and therefore we will not make problems out of it. I hope that this support that you have given today, the Ministry's efforts to prepare amendments and additions to the laws that, more or less, have respected all the parliamentary groups, that there will be incentives for other problems to solve them in this way and to approach them. The ministry will learn very important lessons from this discussion. The lessons are so much that we can never do one project that is ideal and perfect. He's always demanding dorado, he can always be better, and every time he's brought, he'll be better. You have to understand that in this area, in the area of the protection of people with disabilities, in social policy in general, is an initial but serious step. It is this initial serious step that gives me the right to hope that in other areas we will make serious steps, in a positive sense. Once again, thank you for your efforts. Thank you for your patience to spend so much time around this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-04-02-0.u14584	Thank you, Vice President. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We'll continue work tomorrow at 1200 hours.
