ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20239	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on 7 May this year, the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, submitted a report to the Child Rights Committee and a proposal to amend and supplement the Labour and Financial Assistance Act to families with children. With a request for an amendment to this law, he has also submitted 60,000 signatures. There were 50,000 signatures of parents who were severely ill children and 10,000 signatures of citizens with the aim of making children ill with changes and additions to the Law possible and determining the status of parents – carers. However, the government rejected the bill at the ministry's proposal for labour and social policy. I want to believe that the government has rejected this law only because the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has proposed that this law be applied, as well as the Labour Law should be accessed in a more comprehensive way and that there should also be certain other provisions and members of the laws to be amended in addition to this provision. This, however, prompted by the revolt of parents who protested on June 14th, which was followed by Parliament Speaker Mr Stefanovic and the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic. I refer to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy – did this ministry prepare a comprehensive change of this law and the Labour Act? Is the amendment and addition of the Law on financial support to families with children and the Labour Act acceptible to these proposals by parents having a hard time getting children, asking for the status of care providers and for the state of social assistance to those parents who are unable to establish a working relationship because they are forced to take care of their children for 24 hours? My second question concerns the proposal by the Serbian Entrepreneurs who made a request to the Women's Parliamentary Network to simplify the procedure for obtaining a cash compensation for pregnant women and maternity parents. We also addressed this request to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. My question is: are both proposals included in the amendment and the addition of the law, is the law fully prepared, when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia be addressed and did the ministry of this rebalancing provide budgets for parents who are due to receive the status of carers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20240	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20241	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, I would like first notice from the prime minister. He was not long ago here in parliament, and the SPO-DHSS MP club supported it and it seems to me that the entire parliament supported it because it is the concept of Serbia's recovery, announced that next year there will be years of family, years against the white plague, years against Serbia's disappearance. I'll remind you, for years we've been saying this, that in the last 10 years, statistics are clearly showing, about half a million people have gone missing in Serbia. Every year, an entire city of over 30,000 people disappears. It's emptying the regions of Serbia. We almost had elections in Zajecar, and I believe that most of the parliamentarians went down and could see Veljkova's landscape was deserted. The only way Serbia's recovery must be systematic and therefore I would ask once again and ask the prime minister for the plan's biological recovery act to be delivered to parliament with all the clarifications in which Serbia will solve this problem which can ultimately cost us a complete disappearance, as statistics say. In this regard, further regionalisation or further finding ways to recover Serbia, and above all I think that it lies in the recovery of the Serbian village and those parts of Serbia that are underdeveloped, and Serbia must be strong, I will ask the question, as it has recently speculated that there will be a change in the electoral law. I ask this question or ask for word from the Rules of Procedure from Minister Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration – how and in what way does the state authorities, or this ministry think the future electoral system should look like? We as a parliamentary club have a proposal and have already discussed with CESID representatives that Serbia should be divided into election units so that each representative can represent the place where it comes from. that more than 30 or 50 municipalities in Serbia would never happen again if they did not have their representatives in parliament. Under today's election system, a 250-seat parliament could make up the tenants of a Belgrade soloist and is the most members from Belgrade. That is why we must divide Serbia into electoral units, and then from these electoral units as it will be regionalised to elect representatives in this parliament. In the end, we come up with a key topic, which is the change of the Constitution. Serbia cannot become or likely will not become an EU member until it changes the Constitution, until it has brought it into a relationship that will mean that reality is what the Constitution says, that they co-ordinate and until we change constitutional provisions that Serbia can be regionalised. All these are issues of crucial importance, referred first to the prime minister and the other two to Minister Selakovic, the minister of justice and state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20242	The word has a folk ambassador, Zlatko Dragosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20243	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, these days, there is a great deal of excitement in the work of our public, especially in the areas of municipalities where coal mines are located with underground coal exploitation, due to the announced privatisation and sale of the Public Enterprise for the underground exploitation of Resavica. A special disturbance exists among employees of the company, I would say is the largest among the miners and their families. The public underground coal exploitation company Resavica, I will remind you, is the only public company of production character that has its headquarters south of Belgrade, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. More than 4,000 employees are in the public enterprise and extends to the space of nine municipalities from the eastern border of central Serbia with Bulgaria to the western border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not at all disputed that reform of Resavica is needed and has been spoken of for years. There are good and bad examples in transition countries of reforming underground exploitation of coal and it is complex, painful and very demanding everywhere. Whether better ownership is private or public, there are different examples, different effects in transition countries. However, what is common for all countries, which is that there is no underground coal exploitation and that there are no mines in Europe that are not directly or indirectly related to the thermoenergy system. In the last government, we brought a restructuring strategy "Reavica" and it was rejected by the representatives of this government without any explanation with the announcement of Minister Mihajlovic, 6 August of last year in Resavica, on the mining day, that this government will not sell "Resavica" and will not deploy the Public Enterprise for underground exploitation. The sale of the Public Company Reavica in this way would have caused inconceivable consequences for the municipalities where these mines are located, as these mines account for over 50% of the participation in the gross social product of these municipalities. In these mines, the largest number of people in these areas where the mines are located. In the Despotovac municipality alone, over 50% of the employees were employed in the Resavica system. Is there going to be a sale of Resavice this way, I'm not sure. No conditions were agreed and no conditions were created for the legitimate way of this process and was not agreed with the unions and my question was for Minister Mihajlovic – is this sales of Reavice agreed with the representative mine unions with underground coal exploitation? Question – does the Ministry of Energy support the sale of 100% of Resavica capital and the exit of the state from management rights? My question – will the sale, when selling Resavica, capital be taken into account only created capital or will natural capital be evaluated, which is much more significant for Resavica and much more significant for this system? The natural capital that owns Resavica is significantly higher than the capital created. I'll give you two examples. There's a stavel bed. We've got 200 million tons of reserve. If there was an estimate of the capital of this bed, we'd get to about three billion giga joules, as far as this bed is concerned. If we take the average price of three euros per giga jul, how much today is the average price of coal in Velenj, when the Shostan Termopower plant is sold, or four euros per giga jul, what is the average price of coal today in Pllje, when sold to thermal power plants in the environment, we will get to the value of natural capital of 10 billion euros. Is this how a small door isn't introduced to a company that's going to get property over oil shale? As we know, Resavica has a reservation of 400 million tonnes of oil shale, and 400 million tons of oil shale with an average oil content of over 10% makes up about 40 million tons of oil or about 300 million tons of barrels times 100 euros is about 30 billion dollars worth of this part of the Alexine bed alone. My question is, will all this be included in the assessment of Resavice's capital when it comes to selling Resavice? Is the Ministry of Energy safe... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that they can remain mines with underground coal exploitation without being tied to the electrical energy system, because the jurisdiction over Resavico is the power of the Energy Ministry? If today we have a process of returning to the electricity industry of the designer companies in the Colubara, it is simply incomprehensible... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20244	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20245	Thank you, Vice President. I have a few questions for the government in general and individual ministers. On May 26th, the government adopted a Regulation on the issue of an extra postage stamp – the construction of the monument of the Holy Sava Temple. That's already I don't know which way to do it. This time, 7,600,000 stamps have been printed, which means 76m dinars or 760,000 euros will be collected that will be handed over to the Serbian Orthodox Church to use them, according to the programme it brings. I have no objection to the collection of funds for national projects, as they are called the Temple of the Holy Sava, but I have against it being an obligation for all who use postal services, regardless of their religious determination, whether they are believers or not. It's a direct intrusion into several members of the Constitution. I'll make a note. 18, 21, 43 and 44. This compromises the freedom of those who otherwise believe that they are not helping another religious community. That's one. Two, I have to say and ask, let's say, Minister of Health - has she thought about it and is she going to propose to the government that stamps are printed for children who cannot be treated here, but are constantly running actions to raise funds for their treatment and abroad? Did the minister of education, who I'm running the hack against, as I just read in the papers, think about maybe that the funds that are not available for the scholarships of successful students collected through stamps? It's about the amount missing, according to him, in the budget that all students with an average above 8.5 get scholarships. As a free citizen, and I think all other citizens in Serbia have the right to choose which action they want to help with the extra stamp. My question to the government is - will it lift the obligation to use this stamp, under one? Two, the health minister's question – will the initiative be to print stamps to help children who cannot be treated in Serbia? Under three, my question to the Minister of Education, while it's still that, is it going to launch an action to help students who have been denied scholarships in this way? These are things that come directly into human and minority rights. These are things that go directly into the system of values we are supposed to advocate and that we will now have to implement in practice, given the favourable development of our integration into Europe. Just the data, so far, more than 500 million dinars have been collected based on the temple stamps, of which only in 2006 was 1,600,000 euros. So, huge funds are being invested in this national project, and I think there are other national projects in Serbia that deserve much more attention and investment. I have a question for the president of the assembly – will he put on the agenda at the new session, which is due to be scheduled, and will the request of a group of MPs for the shift of the Minister of Education? He's bound to do it. I would just like to know exactly when it will be so that we can adequately prepare ourselves for this very important event and for the debate at which we will talk, not only about the responsibility for the unfavorable event that has taken place in small graduation, but about the overall results that our education has achieved since the last five and a half years Mr. Obradovic Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20246	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20247	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In recent months, the Ministry of Education has been shaking up numerous affairs and scandals, and it's almost five minutes to list everyone who's become huge. The general scene is the scandal over the final exam of the founders and it shows what our education is in, and at the same time shows all the intricacies, then the irresponsibility and lack of morality that reign in the Ministry of Education. Neither MPs, nor parents, nor students, nor professional public, nor unions, nor the Anti-Corruption Agency, nor the Citizens' Protector, all of us did not have enough arguments to convince the Minister of Education that he had his responsibility in what happened and that responsibility could not be transferred to the press and to the worker who allegedly took those tests. Also, the prime minister's reaction to the conviction is now in the role of the minister of police, a rarer game, which told the public that this case was closed by the arrest of the worker, but remained obliged to tell the public that this worker managed to organize such a good network, that all the points and markets and schoolyards and the internet were covered, all the places where parents and students could buy tests. Also, Minister Dacic has left us with an answer – is it the same person who took the tests both last and last year, since it was known both last and previous year? That's my question to Minister Dacic. Was the same person discovered both last and last year, or was it guilty? Then, from the scandal to the next, there's a math textbook for the first grade of elementary school, "Mathematics 1", whose publishing and company is "New Logos", and whose printing was approved by the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. It is an amazing textbook with so many material errors, which has completely wrong definitions, which has completely wrong advice, which has so many wrong things, that people from the professional public have been involved, Professor Milačić pointed out to the public what is happening with this textbook. In addition, on 166 pages, there are only 57 spelling errors. Since I only point here to spelling mistakes and mistakes when it comes to laws, then I'm glad to see that someone else notices when someone is illiterate. The latest in a series of scandals is a protest by scientific workers that has resulted in the ministry's totally unprofessional and laity relationship with this area, but has also been the result of long accumulated problems since the beginning of this year. The European Investment Bank has threatened to hitchhike money for some projects in science, as these projects are either late or poorly done. For example, "Scientist-Technology Park" or "Building apartments for young scientists". Then, the next problem since the beginning of the year, due to the lack of money in the budget, was delayed with the payment of CERN's annual membership fee, and the "Oxford University Press" was blocked, one of the most influential electronic databases of scientific journals. Then no membership fees were paid, so it was eventually paid, and then there was a problem with money for this year's scientific projects. What was the combination of all this now? Scientists don't even have the most basic means to work, pay them late months. We only admire our scientists when we have to say that we have an increase in the number of works in 2011, 5,356, 1,000 more than it was in 2011. Let's not talk about the status of Petnica, because I'm Valjevka, so maybe I'm more interested in Petnica, which we also remember only when we're supposed to brag about, and at the same time we're allocating one week of the funds we allocated to her in 2010. This attitude of the Ministry of Education is indeed inadmissible and cannot be justified by the crisis and by tightening the belt. The largest number of developing countries that are also in crisis and that are also tightening their belts are just investing in education and have just increased investment in education and science, because they will get them out of the crisis. I've had these questions about a lot of questions I'd like to ask the Minister of Education, but I realized that it's really not an address that needs to be answered. In addition, I only have one question – what else should happen so that the minister feels personal responsibility and resigns? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20248	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20249	In the past week, information means, and a number of media outlets, information has appeared with falseness, which has a character of counter-action aimed at the damage of the minister of education, science and technological development, Zarko Obradovic. Undoubtedly, the most difficult form of such opposition is to call for the life of Zarko Obradovic, as it was done in the text published in the NIN weekly of June 27th of this year, which calls for Mr. Obradovic to be judged by a brief procedure and asks the question: "When will he hang on the terraces", and the other cited texts represent an attack on Mr. Obradovic's personality with qualifications such as: "The Obradic's criminal act" and so on, with the intention that these attacks will be carried out together with the threats made. As a result of such illegal action, it is more difficult to harass citizens and it is also marked by criminal acts or crimes with a high degree of social danger. I therefore ask the Minister of Justice – did the competent public prosecutor, under official duty and within the limits of the prescribed powers, respond to those incriminations and give under the prescribed conditions an order to conduct an investigation or to initiate an investigative procedure, in order to define the further course of the criminal proceedings? The need for urgent and urgent reaction of the prosecutor in these situations stems from the undisputed fact that the crime was committed and that the perpetrator was known. The prevention of the execution of these crimes and the urgent and urgent processing of the perpetrators of such crimes is necessary, given the experience of earlier periods and this period of the near past, when calls for links of state officials and public figures, unfortunately, had a tragic epilogue. The same question is also raised in relation to other bodies and institutions, whose powers are laid down by law regarding the protection of human rights and the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms. The question is also asked by the Minister of Culture and Information, and particularly by the associations of Serbian journalists, that in addition to this answer – in this case and in other cases the attack on Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, has been violated by the law and the code of professional journalistic ethics? If so, what have they done and what measures and actions have they done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20250	Thank you. National MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20251	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question concerns the problem of a million and 300,000 illegally built buildings in the Republic of Serbia and the possibility of owners of these facilities legalizing their facilities. On March 15th, the so-called March 15th was brought in. Velja's law under which illegally built objects were to be entered into the cadastre and to indicate that they were illegal in this notice of entry. As a parliamentary group, we have pointed out all the shortcomings of this law, because this law practically does not solve anything. However, further problems have arisen in its application, i.e. the legalisation process of these facilities which were under legalisation has been completely suspended. Of these millions and 300, I think somewhere around 700,000 owners have applied for legalization. I ask Minister Ilic and ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – why did the Ministry of Ilic, allegedly orally, suspend the application of the Law on Legalisation, and why does the competent administration in cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia not conduct the legalisation process? I even have information from Novi Sad -- they don't even account for fees for already filed requests and for complete documentation for legalising individual objects. This does not only create a problem for citizens who cannot legalise their facilities, although they have collected, we could say tons of documentation, it produces problems and local self-governments that have no income from it, and it produces consequences again directly and directly to the owners themselves, because there is no regulation of these spaces, no introduction of sewers, asphalting of these streets, etc. So, everyone is at risk, first because of the will of Minister Ilic, or his ministry that suspends the application of this law, and on the other hand because of the adoption of a very bad law that introduced legal confusion into this and this sensitive topic. I ask Minister Ilic – when will the legalisation process continue, which is why he has been suspended and when and will a new law on legalisation be passed, which he announced? The citizens speak to us in mass these days and say that they are in legal uncertainty, that in municipalities they do not know that they are giving them the right answer to the question of when the legalisation process will continue, or whether it will be, apart from the fact that they know that their documentation is being unauthorized, so to speak, from the offices in which they applied for legalisation to the cataster. This Law on the registration of illegal objects in the cadastre provides for the documentation submitted for legalisation to serve as a basis for enrolment in the cadastre. It was normal for the legalisation procedure to be completed first, so that it could then be entered into the cadastre or that a copy of those documents would just be sent to the cadastre. In this way, citizens' documentation unauthorizedly arrived at a place where they did not send it, and where they sent it and intended it to legalise its facilities, it is no longer available. This puts the basic right of citizens at risk to exploit the rights they did not demand at all, and on the other hand, the other rights they sought not to achieve. I ask Minister Ilic – who gave the order to pass the paperwork from the administration where the legalisation was carried out with an unauthorized disaster and what about those citizens who do not want to comply with the Law on the registration of illegal objects and want the objects legalized first? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20252	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Ljubisa Stoimirović and Dejan Rajcic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly has called for regional development and local self-government ministers, Mladjan Dinkic and the Minister of Finance and Industry, to attend: Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance and Business and Daniel Nikolic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Economy. We continue the work and, in accordance with Article 157(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move on to the search in detail of the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013. We move to the debate on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the 2013 BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, with the proposals for decisions on granting consent to changes and additions to financial plans for 2013: 1) of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, 2) of the Republic Fund for Health Insurance, 3) of the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance and 4) of the National Employment Service. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Bojan Kostreš. Djordže Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Branka Karavidić, Gorica Mojović, Biljana Hasanovic Korić, Srdjan Šajn, Dusan Petrović, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Čeković, Boško Ristić, Zlatko Dragoljevic, Milovan Marković, Dragan Nikolić, Miroljub Stojić, Judita Popović, Natasa Mićić, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Bojan Đurić, Aleksandar Senić, Ljubljana Panić, Ivan Andrić, Dušica Morčević, Dr Nenad Popović, Trosandar Pejčić, Prof. Dr Miodrag Stojdrović, Mr Bozidar Djeljić, Jovan Mehandžić, Prof. Dr Dusan Milisavić, Vladimir Milisović, Dović, Vladimir Živić and Živić Živić Živić, Živić Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Žvić, Žvić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić and Živić. Živić, Živić, Živić. Mir. National MP Aleksandar Pejcic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 5. National MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djorđe Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić, have withdrawn the amendments to Article 6 submitted on 1 and 2 July 2013, and have submitted the final text of the amendment to Article 6 on 2 July. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric, Ivan Andric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20253	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, and this was actually our political gesture, simply to show in which direction, when it comes to public finances or budget building, is thinking about LDP and how different it is from what the government thinks and what the government is doing, or even if those in the government have that power to prevent any kind of serious, essential, structural, deep reform, which could actually be the only salvation of Serbia's budget in 2013 and the years ahead. Of course, on the one hand, this amendment, as well as some of the other amendments, is not formally in line with this famous Article 28. The law on the budgetary system, but this is another reason why in decent and normal countries, the right, broad and serious debate and the preparation of budgets and budget rebalancing takes several months in the case of budgets, and in the case of rebalancing for at least a few weeks. For you to propose major changes in this general part of the budget, i.e. to be able to carry out general accounts of revenue and expenditure through the entire Rebalancing Proposal, under the Budgetary System Act, you need dozens of amendments and amendments, or amendments, which is certainly not possible if you send the budget to the June 26th Assembly, and you have the ambition to discuss it already on July 1st. At the level of the political gesture, it's clear what we wanted and what the government doesn't allow. The Liberal Democratic Party wanted this amendment to reduce subsidies or grants, which is actually the key to the inefficientness of the Serbian budget, and then the Serbian state-run public economy, for a total of, according to this amendment, three billion dinars and to show where we would be in this situation, this is not a theoretical situation, but a situation of a concrete budget, i.e. the budget rebalance, the biggest holes that exist, we could transfer that part. One public company we wanted to take, I say, to take a billion dinars is the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". The reason that this company must receive a subsidy and an explanation that without it, road traffic will be compromised, as it seems to me in this explanation, cannot be sufficiently convincing, or strong enough at the moment, because the company requires money from Serbian citizens and before that, it must show the citizens of Serbia through this parliament that it is capable of performing those functions for which it is established and fulfils its obligations. If we didn't have at the same time, Mr Dinkic, on the agenda of the debate on taking over the debts of JP "The Ways of Serbia" we might have the understanding of the subsidy you're asking for 6.2 billion dinars on this basis alone for "The Ways of Serbia". That we don't know who the director of this company is, that we don't know how he behaves, that we don't think it's a state-of-the-art shame to give six billion and 200 million dinars to the director of "The Way of Serbia", who when someone dies in the country because the company behaves irresponsiblely, and in a bad way marks the way or part of the way it works, he says -- so they weren't blind, they could have seen such a concrete pillar. We have no understanding of this kind of insolence. The second question is, what is the situation of "Serbia's Ways", are "Serbia's Ways" blocked or not blocked? Those jobs, Mr. Dinkic, for which you will give them a gift, or take their debts and turn them into public debt in a few days, based on what kind of contracts have been entered into in these jobs? From what year are the basic contracts, based on which the annexes were made, according to which the debts were made by some toll companies? Whether these are the contracts of 2010, 2011, 2012, or whether there are basic contracts of 20 years and more where the annexes are held each year, all in the expectation that at one point the state will take over the debt and pay off those jobs. Many of these jobs have fallen apart three times in the meantime, and new impact holes have opened up for which you are today looking for money with this budget and what will come on the agenda in a few days. We're going to talk specifically about whether the operation you're looking for in taking over the debt of "The Way of Serbia" is legal in any way possible. Is it possible under other laws in this country? That's a huge question. You may end up saying it has nothing to do with you, it will be done by the Secretary of RES. That's what I'm afraid the Secretary of Resolute will do, so it'll be a burazer's cover and debts and contracts for new jobs. Since some of his colleagues in the government's arguments or arguments absolutely impossible to determine when Corridor 10 will be completed, he has been finished ten times already. The second budgetary institution from whose positions we have sought to take down also a billion dinars is the National Employment Service. We've talked about it so many times, I don't think we have to convince anyone in this country how inefficient that service is, how ineffective it is in doing that job that it was founded for, and her job isn't just to be a flow water heater for part of the benefits that they need to come for unemployed through the budget, but it's probably a part of looking for a job. You ignore the fact that this is still 2013 and that there is competition in the company market, which deals with employment, or by helping people find jobs, that when you hit so much money in the National Employment Service, you kill an entire part of the market that is very dynamic, which, however, develops, that you finance exactly how many of these districts of the National Employment Service. I think 30 or something, so underneath that, who knows how much more. They're all over the place where local elections are being debated. It's another local source for the vote fight. Third, the place where I thought it was possible to take more important money is "Serb Railways" and we have talked about it a thousand times. You say in an explanation for the refusal of amendments in order to further reduce the subsidies they receive would endanger the regular, i.e. the implementation of the basic activities of the company. We don't even know what the basic actions of "Serbian Railways" are today. How many drug companies are divided into "Serbian Railways"? At four, as you decided two years ago or in two plus one, according to Simonovic, director of Railways, or in as many companies as required by the loans signed in the meantime and where demonopolisation obligations were made at the end of the rail market, which I do not know how you will achieve by the end of this year. If we knew exactly what 13 billion dinars are doing to the railways you're looking for, then maybe we could accept the argument that 12 billion is not enough, but we don't know that. For years, we've heard that the entire amount goes to pay off wages in "Serb Railways" is that still true? How many employees are there in the railroad? They've had about 18.5 grand in debt, do they today, one year after the formation of this railroad government, have fewer employees? If they have fewer, how many fewer employees do they have? The fact that they formally have about 18,000, 18,500 employees are obsessed because there are still a number of former, component parts of the "Serb Railway" that employ several more thousands of people. They're just not officially part of the "Serbian Railway". Essentially, they do not only work on the market for "Serb Railways", depending directly on "Serb Railway" and therefore we have to count them as part of the system. What did we suggest on the other side, where to go part of that money? We suggested, let's say, that part of the money go to additional funding for the RFO, although of course we think that fund is also ineffective now. But there are some urgent matters in this country that are important, and we have submitted some other amendments, and we will talk about it. There is a part of the citizens of this country who are insured, who pay for health insurance for themselves or do so for their family members, who cannot get an elementary health care service. It's always an explanation that regulations don't allow it, and on the other hand, there's not enough money. Three or four months ago, we talked about cases of vulnerable children in Serbia. It wasn't one incident, it was a system thing. The Liberal Democratic Party has allowed three months for different working groups, the head of the RFO, the health minister, the entire government, to try to find a way to resolve the problem, or bridge it. They didn't find a way. These days, it takes a new text to collect help for Anita Balash, or for her treatment, or surgery in Houston. You didn't offer anything in the meantime as a solution. That is why we felt it was better to go another billion RFO, so that the treatment of such people, especially those who cannot be treated in Serbia's health system, would be possible or at least be easier, and a little less money would go to Mrkonjic and Drobnjak's "The Paths of Serbia" and Simonovic's "The Railways of Serbia". It's a budget, a general part of the budget, especially, to whom you want to take and to whom you want to give. What do you think the priorities of the state are? We think that the higher priority is treatment and RFZO than the "roads" and the failed "Serb Railway". You think it's the other way around, or it's different and orderly. Just don't talk about it, I'm not just thinking about you, I'm thinking about the whole government, change of logic, change of thinking, saving and structural reforms. It's obviously not in this budget rebalance proposal. Why do we still doubt that such subsidies should be given to public enterprises? Because for weeks, we've been asking you to call a competition for the directors of public enterprises. We also made some kind of pressure and deadlines expired on June 30th, and you started calling the competitions from July 2nd. Yesterday, the government decided to call competitions for seven public enterprises, six of which are national parks. I don't know if the citizens know, so we have six special public enterprises that are national parks. Mr Dinkic, yesterday at the Serbian government session, you decided to call a competition for JP Director Char Mountains' election. So, Serbia has a "National Park Char Mountains" Public Enterprise, which employs 26 employees, Mr Dinkic, and I looked at the natural work systematization: secretary, lawyer, cashier, archival, liquidator, driver of a field vehicle, bulldozer driver, forest building reference officer. They don't even have a website, they don't meet any obligations. Do these people work? How much is their income a year? How many people visit this national park? But, okay, let's say it's a difficult situation in Kosovo. The Gjerdap National Park in the middle of Serbia has six members of the supervisory board, instead of five as per the law. When you look at the biographies of the board members, the president of the football clubs at the JP Supervisory Board "Jerdap", when you look at the public procurement plan other than the speedboats, they might need it, the great river of the Danube, they make six sculptures of the sea. Can you explain to me what the six sculptures of the sea are for the JP that so many visitors have, that their information on the work is named after who bought the national park in 2012? Well, he's got a name, last name, Salzburg, two tickets. Well, school, 12 cards. Megatrend University 30. That's nice. Socially responsible Megatrend business, I respect that. They have 75, I think, employees. Director, two assistant directors, six members of the Supervisory Board. Yesterday we told you to respect the Law on Public Enterprises. If you only had supervisory and not mostly parallel and supervisory and boards, what would be the savings? Sixty million dinars. Only enough for one 240 pensioners in Serbia to receive pensions. But I don't see what it's like to pay 35 board members to some public enterprises called national parks. I couldn't even look at the others. They charge services, 240 dinars is a service to sit down and watch birds along with a professional guide. Okay, it's all nice, caring about people, caring about animals, caring about oak, but I think we have an obligation to have some priorities. First, sick kids, then people, then oak, then wild pigs and pheasant. It's from that budget fund for hunting development. If that logic doesn't happen, then nothing will ever change in this country, Mr. Dinkic. Each time it will be provided for by the Budgetary System Act. They're paying cab hunters, how to get their money, and most of it's going to be a two-billion deficit. A few billion for loans and we'll be going round and round and there won't always be a June when non-tax revenues jump, it'll be seen that it's not enough. This country cannot support everything that those who lead it have the ambition to take from the citizens and to support it. We'll see about the next competition. I see it's next for the "Serbs of Serbia". The whole of Serbia has become a shelter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20254	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (no) The People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20255	Respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, the democratic party of Serbia warned when the budget was adopted that excise revenues were unreal and that any increase in excise duties did not always bring an increase in revenues to the budget, but rather, that there could be a reduction in revenues in the budget from the increase in excise duties. This is practice and showed, and this is seen by this rebalancing that a reduction in excise income is proposed from 233, 3 billion to 217, 3 billion dinars. We are once again warning that this unrealistic projection is likely to be less than what is predicted by the rebalancing. This is referred to by data on the implementation of the budget for the first five months, in which 72.3 billion dinars were charged from excise duties and at this rate by the end of the year, about 172 billion dinars would be added to the budget, which is about 44 billion dinars less than this rebalancing forecast. Which are the reasons for this phenomenon, it's less income the state collects than planned. This phenomenon of the gray market, the drastic fall in excise duty on cigarettes, has shown that there has been an increase in illegal traffic of cut tobacco. In addition, price elasticity, the simplest way to say is that the collection of certain products leads to a reduction in demand for these products, and thus to a decline in revenue in the budget that is planned. What's also unacceptable, as far as excise duties are concerned, is the level of excise duty on oil derivatives. Serbia has the most expensive oil derivatives in the region and the most excise and our citizens with the lowest wages in the region can't handle it. The adverse consequences of the further increase in excise duties on oil derivatives are already visible, as foreign carriers bypass Serbia's roads because their price is too high. All of this indicates that it is necessary to change the Excise Act, to take into account reality, purchasing power, to take into account the situation in the economy, and to take into account the protection of the health of the population, environmental protection, means that oil derivatives bring down, if we already need to collect excise revenues, that this goes on the expense of excise duties, into cigarettes. Dear Ministers, you have not accepted this amendment and under the current Excise Act, that is understandable to me, but I am telling you that this amendment is and is proposed, and that implies amendments to the Excise Act and that we will then be able to have real projections for both budget rebalancing and for the future budget that we need to adopt in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20256	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20257	For many things you may be right, but you're wrong about excises, look at the data on the website we posted yesterday. For the first six months, the best charge of all incomes was excise and the increase of excise duties on cigarettes was justified. We may have gotten less than we expected, but much more than last year. Definitely a change in the Excise Act was done well. If you look at the data in six months, we've charged 96 billion dinars from the excises. That's not bad at all, because essentially, the charge went up by about 28% more than in the first six months of last year, we nearly 30% more, but it's true that we planned that it would be even more. We've achieved excise duties, I'd say, under conditions of this kind of rebalancing only 4.5 billion less than we planned. We made a charge of about 95%. This is in the condition of the uncertainty that prevails and in relation to other incomes that have undermined actually the income that best goes into the budget and in this sense there is room for criticism for some other revenues, but in excises you are wrong. We expect that the excise charge will go well in the next period, and together with the police we will be controlling the illegal market. There will be an illegal market, as we now have it, a cut-off tobacco, and in that sense we decided to step up control, but not to change excise policy, because from excises, here's the example of June of the month, we charge 23 billion dinars in one month, almost as from VAT, which says that excise tax is good. Our main goal by the end of the year is to achieve as many VAT excise charges as possible as possible as possible as possible. I've missed the profit tax projection, and I've said it more than once, and it's taken us a lot of revenue from the budget. I'm just saying, you're wrong about excises.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20258	Replica, Soul of the Sea.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20259	The respected ministers, the data that was available to me, suggest that during the period of excise duties, 72 billion dinars were charged and that this was less than 14.5 billion dinars a month from what is scheduled. You gave me some other information. Now we question, the data available to us as MPs, which may have been published yesterday on the Ministry's site, but the data I had shows that it wasn't achieved, and your proposal to reduce the revenue from excise duties is saying it's not how you planned it. The budget envisioned 233 billion, and you now expect 217 billion with the rebalancing. Secondly, the public is aware that there has been an increase in the illegal traffic of cut tobacco and that there has been an increase in excise duty on cigarettes and that there has been a drastic decline, as far as cigarette excise charges are concerned. I mean, it may remain that you are presenting one piece of information, that as a member of Parliament, I am presenting other data, but I remain in that, that the excise duties that are currently prescribed are not good, that the revenue in the budget would be higher, that the excise duties are not increased, because every increase in excise duties, once again, does not mean an increase in revenue in the budget. As a parliamentary group, we said, when the budget was adopted, that the budget was unrealistic, that we would have to have budget rebalances, that's what it showed. We'll see, I'll meet you here in a few months and see who was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20260	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20261	I repeat again. So excise duties are the best charge of all income. A total of six months from now has been charged by excise duties of 96 billion 184 million dinars or all in such conditions exactly 4.5 billion less than planned. A much larger bribery, for example, on VAT, 21 billion or on profits, is 14.4 billion. Compared to total revenues, excise duties are very well charged and there was a proper increase in excise duties on cigarettes, which we did last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20262	The word is "Soul of the Seas." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20263	The MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia will speak today in particular about other amendments and what you stressed that the profit tax did not bring enough revenue into the budget, we will talk about it. That's what my colleagues were talking about when they were talking about budget rebalancing. This budget that we adopted shows that it was misdesigned and that no well-designed revenue in the budget was well-designed, both from profit tax, from VAT tax, and I have submitted an amendment in which I am talking about excise duties and I am behind the need for amendments to the Excise Act and that would bring a lot more revenue to the budget, perhaps even these, as you said four billion, might not be lacking in the budget that the rest of the old excises are. Now if we're going in and out, let's say in the last quarter of 2012, what was the excise charge, that was 16.7 billion dinars in the first five months, so this 14.5, so that's already in the concept. I stand behind the fact that the increase in excise duties isn't good and that they won't bring income, but I say, we'll meet up and we'll talk about it by the end of the year, because as things stand, I think we'll have another budget rebalance by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20264	The word is Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20265	Dear President, on this amendment and excise duty on tobacco and cigarettes, as chairman of the Health Committee and the family of the Serbian Parliament, I would draw attention to the fact that this tobacco dinar is not being spent in the way it is planned. Patients, Serbian citizens, are not being treated, but the tobacco dinar disappears somewhere in the budget, patching up some budget holes, and is not being used for the purpose for which it was introduced. I'd like to ask, through this report of mine, how much tobacco smoke money was collected from excises and where was that money spent?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20266	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20267	We don't have the exact information here, we can deliver it to you as chairman of the Health Committee, and we'll deliver that information, but that's the general revenue of the budget. As far as the health ministry's programme at smoking prevention is concerned, the resolution ministry also has data on how the money is spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20268	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Dinkic, today we are talking again about budget rebalancing, debate in particular, and we see that an extremely lively debate has opened between the opposition MPs and you as minister. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs, and when the budget was adopted, said the budget was unrealistic, too, and when the debate was on the budget rebalance principle, they also said the budget rebalance was unrealistic and that we would soon have a new budget rebalance. So the government has defined itself to be saving, when it comes to this budget rebalance and we don't mind. However, it has been defined as saving on life-saving portfolios for Serbian citizens, such as health care, such as agriculture, education, decided to save on capital investments as well. But what is important, the government has not decided to save on a pre-glazed administration, which is both pre-named and you will agree, for our terms and how great. We of the DSS think that the government and how it should take care of capital projects, given that our construction operation is on the side and that this would encourage exactly one momentum, this construction operation that would be the generator of the Serbian economy. This amendment is about how we've defined a billion dinar funds for a construction operation. You did not accept this amendment, and the explanation is that because of this famous member of the 28th budget system. My colleagues talked about it being a technical problem, that you had this amendment and how you should accept, however, what is the essence of this discussion, that you did not accept any of the 49 amendments of the opposition. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted 29 amendments, as I said, neither has been accepted. With this amendment, we wanted to express our political position, that the government should have been defined, and how to finance capital investments. We think that, and many local self-governments, because of the reduction in capital investment funds, will remain unarranged, i.e. they will not have the means to complete certain capital projects, which have already begun in some previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20270	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20271	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, in front of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to the part of these expenditures relating to subsidies. What were we thinking? So, that all those non-transparent revenues, therefore, all those expenditures, i.e. all non-transparent, for example, other subsidies, anything that is subsidized under the rest, we believe that it is not good and that it should be reduced, and then we planned to put that on the roads, tourism or economy, because we cannot save on improving the development of the economy. As I said, the Ministry of Economy, as a generator of development, shouldn't have the biggest savings in the budget, I think that's the wrong concept. Also, for construction, or service activities, you also said that service activities, for example, tourism, bring new investments, generate economic growth. In this regard, we must also think about improving tourism infrastructure, for example, without talking about roads and road construction. If we do not make a highway to western Serbia at the most recent time, or towards the southern Adriatic, the Western Serbian industry will completely freeze, and not talk about when this SAA starts, in terms of reducing total customs duties on agricultural products and on a large part of industrial products, only then will there be major problems, above all, in western Serbia. I also find it very interesting that these roads and the construction of roads and bridges are located in as many as four ministries. I don't understand, by what principle is it shared, is it from where the minister, where his girlfriend, some secretary of state, or so on? I think classic savings are pretty bad, so we can't stand in place, that we have to move forward. Without investment, we can't do anything about it. I said something in principle debate, and I think we need to move. Whoever thought that at this point in the green light would rush the investments and the money here in Serbia, that we would all be able to lie there and receive those funds, he was very wrong. We and how we have to work and we have to make a lot of efforts to achieve these European standards and modern European economy fluids. So this explanation here that it doesn't agree, that it doesn't comply with budget system law number 28, I don't think it really makes sense, because if someone wants to do something, they'll find a way, and if they don't want to do something, they'll find a reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20272	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dr Nenad Popović and Prof. Dr. Ruzica Igic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20273	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 1 where, in Table 1 relating to expenditures and expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets, the economic classification of Social Security from the budget, i.e. other social protection, amounting to 3,431.000,000 changes to the amount of 1,831.00.000 and in Article 1 in the expenditure table issued for the purchase of non-financial assets, the economic classification of 472, the social protection from the budget, i.e. children's protection, amounting to 43 billion, is changed by 44 billion. Let me just say for a moment -- it's certain that social security expenditures from the budget and when it's originally passed and now that the rebalancing is changing, they need to be significantly increased. We are all witnesses that our population is drastically poor, that we cannot bear the burden of standards that are falling and that these expenditures must be increased, but certainly one of the most endangered categories is children. That is why we propose to significantly increase the childcare item from the category, i.e. the expenditure on other social protection. It is certain that children, who are hit most deeply in all layers of the population, will feel a significant improvement if we look back at the adoption of this rebalance and the increase in this expenditure. I say, first of all, for childcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20274	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment with the correction were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20275	Dear Minister, I'll start with the reasons for the amendment. The amendment we have proposed concerns reducing the potential for borrowing the Republic of Serbia's budget by the government by selling securities of value and other means, and you have put into account us, your writing services, talking about the development of the capital market in Serbia, the money market and capital market and how Serbia's borrowing contributes to the development of the capital market, how everyone can now learn that they will trade in securities of value and other things. So, instead of saying in your explanation, the needs of the Republic of Serbia are to cover the deficit in Railways, to cover the subsidies that we give to travel firms, railways, due to poor governance, due to excessive expenditures, due to party employment, and therefore we have to be in charge, so that we can cover all of this, you are in your explanation talking about how this contributes to the development of securities trade in value, how, behold, our people will be able to learn how to trade in government bonds on the money market and capital. There's a completely missed topic in the explanation. Our objective in this amendment was to reduce the scope of the Republic's debt by issuing securities of value and thus to force the government not to reduce the budget deficit so as not to reduce new borrowings, but to reduce the budget deficit by reducing expenditure. The point is to cut expenses. Our incomes are what they are. That's what we talked about during the rebalancing debate. They won't be bigger in due time. The problem is that the expenditures are too large. You mentioned "Gallenika", which has hired 1,000 people in a few years, and we pay the expenditures, the citizens, by paying the citizens, by making the Galenika debt public debt, so that the citizens of Serbia, who pay contributions to health insurance and the medicines they buy, will pay for what Galenika pays, and again, when the Galenice debt becomes public debt, Serbia's citizens will pay that debt, so that 1,000 people can be employed by two years, while the volume of business and gain is reduced by more than 100% by 1,000 new people. And that's the fundamental problem of this country. This country's problem is not income. They are who they are. This country, with its seven million, with this average profit, can't buy more gasoline than cigarettes, tobacco and oil products to do more. He can't, that's it. With these profits, VAT can be as big as it is, but expenses have to be lower. I don't want to mention what LDP gentlemen mention in Railways, the cost of the team and everything else, but just to get out of what's real, which is that the company where they got 1,000 employees at one time, in three years' time, the real size of the business that went down to over 100 million, it almost doesn't have and makes over 300 million debts for those three years, and the company that was in plus was inherited. That's the main problem. That is why we believe that Serbia should not be in debt, but in Serbia it should be managed with a firm hand and created a system that will work and will prevent any abuse and unconscious business from being able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20276	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20277	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, in Article 2 of the budget rebalancing, it is envisaged that funds to cover the budget deficit, to pay off the principal for previously taken loans and to purchase financial assets totaling 614 billion should be covered from the following sources: from taking new commercial loans to domestic and foreign banks of 77 billion dinars, from broadcasting of government securities of value on the domestic market of 330 billion dinars and from receiving euro bond emissions of 221 billion dinars. The total debt would amount to 628 billion dinars, and it is said to be a positive change in the account, as the funds of these three debts are higher by 16 billion compared to the amount of items to be covered. Article 2 says that in case we don't get those funds, or we don't get those loans that we planned to get on the market, we're going to use the funds from the consolidated vault account. Of course, we will not use credits or funds from the account of the consolidated vault if we sell something, or if our privatisation revenues increase this year. The Democratic Party of Serbia is proposing, given this number of responsibilities and given those 628 billion, to which we cover both the budget deficit and previously borrowed loans, i.e. the payment of the war on these loans, that every six months, the government submits a report to the Assembly where we spent the funds, for which the purposes have gone and what the effects of the funds have been spent. In an explanation that you do not accept the amendment, you said that the National Assembly in the autumn of the previous year always has in mind how much we planned to be in charge and for what purposes we will spend these funds on the basis of your debt. You're saying that the National Assembly has each individual debt contract and each individual guarantee contract also ratified here. You know what? We can't as MPs add it all together for three or six months. We simply believe that the government is obliged to review the total loans for six months. We, when we're making the budget, have planned our duties, but for six months, let's say, if that's 36, we already knew, i.e. The government knows how much these credit obligations have been realised and for which purposes they have been spent. In that sense, the DSS submitted this amendment, that we have simply collected a view of how much of the funds were taken and for what was spent and what were the effects of the funds spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20278	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you can see, Mr. Minister, the DSS parliamentary group is one of the most active parliamentary groups here and how it has been thoroughly prepared for this budget rebalancing. My esteemed colleague Nenad Popovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which simply speaks of transparency. We want everything to be transparent and clear and for the citizens of Serbia to become aware of the duties on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in charge. So in 2015, there will be a collection of precisely those biggest loans owed by the previous government at a high interest rate. But what's true is that this government has also defined itself to be in debt to cover the deficit, which is also unreal, you'll agree with me. I'll remember in 2006 when you were the minister and when the party's headquarters was the DSS, when we paid back over a billion dollars in IMF debt. It is simply this amendment that we want to task the Government of the Republic of Serbia to submit a debt plan every three months to meet not only us MPs, but also to make sure that the citizens of Serbia know what public debt is, on the basis of which the need will be entrusted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and with whom they will be in charge. That was our intention. The explanation you gave us states that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the National Assembly passed a law that regulates the budget and the current year. It is true, we have passed many laws in this House, but they are not respected. We passed the Law on Agriculture, Education, Health. Why would the government not work transparently and every three months deliver a plan of responsibilities, so that we MPs and citizens of Serbia could be introduced? That was our intention. I don't see why you didn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20280	Anyone else want a word? National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20281	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 2, you say the Treasury will use funds in some extreme conditions. We believe it is very important to say that these funds will be used according to clearly established and well-known criteria. What are we looking for this for? I'll explain. That it can be heard in public that Serbia's public debt in 2013 is falling, that it is shrinking, and in fact, it is growing and it is growing very fast. It was 17.6 billion dinars on 31.12, and in late April 2013, it increased by around 1.8 billion and was around 19.8 billion euros. That's about 56.1% of GDP. According to the IMF, they say the debt will grow to over 65% of GDP by the end of 2013. Then it is quite clear that you had to put in Article 2 and the fence that in the event of a undue need you must have a reserve of funds that will serve to cover the budget deficit, to cover the credit commitments that have been made, and that's fine. But I'm afraid that with such a growing need, these interventions from the vault can be common, and they can be really that kind of questionable, and these vaults. That is why it is very important to build this fence, to establish public criteria, and these criteria are known to everyone, and then by these criteria it is possible to implement this. Like this, I'm afraid the funds will be handled quite uncontrollably and will endanger this vault reserve as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20282	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20283	Thank you. For days we have debated that such a large budget deficit, i.e. the government has proposed, can only be reduced, that is, decided, if they reduce individual expenditure items in the budgets of individual ministries. It just went from that assumption that it's better to slightly cosmetically fix the budget, let's see where we can cut our own incomes on the goodbye sides, and then see if we can make some structural changes next year, structural reforms, and much more serious and fundamentally change the budget. In this case, many of these reductions were, in fact, justified in the spending sides of the budget, but in many of the items that have fallen this time and have not. The reduction in the Budgetary Emergency Fund, which is now reduced to 81,148,000 dinars, is considered inadmissible. Every year in Serbia, unfortunately, we have some elemental accident, whether it is drought, whether the floods, whether the glides, whether the city and every year, unfortunately, the elementary disasters have brought us enormous material costs and every year we swear that in the next budget we will allocate considerable funds for the Emergency Fund. Then we're also listening to Chief Emergency Sector appeals that there's simply no technical possibility, no human resources to deal with the lyrics during the elemental disasters. That's why we, the DSS, have now proposed and very radically to increase this fund to 640,000,000 dinars, i.e. the complete item from the Joint Affairs Authority of 559,000,000 dinars in full to this fund. We were a little bit more radical when we proposed this amendment, to make a trade, to realize that our Emergency Fund is very low, that our resources are very low, that we can't fight with all that's going on from year to year, and that we have to realize that the least we need to do here is to reduce. You said in your explanation that these funds were already spent on new software programs by the Joint Affairs Authority. If we had known, we would have suggested from another item that the amount be transferred, but it's safe and you have to know that this fund cannot remain below at least 400,000 dinars. It's some optimal amount that we can go with, when it's an elemental accident and when that kind of situation hits us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20284	Thank you. The 5th amendment with correction was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20285	Thank you. I don't know if any of my colleagues from the other MP clubs spent their time on those rock songs. All in all, it looks like when it comes to concrete things, it's just the DSS doing something here. In Article 5, we wanted to replace some things with planned expenses. The foreign and domestic trade and telecommunications ministry planned 300,000 dinars to switch to the digital broadcast of the earth's TV signal. Personally, I believe that we can live without that transition to digital broadcasts of TV signals, the first thing that is a program and boring and is not particularly inventive, but without some other things we probably wouldn't be able to do. If you already say that this budget is facing the EU, according to this accession, then we should also follow some European standards. I think what we're proposing, which is that some of the funds, worth 110,000,000 dinars, are transferred to build a wastewater treatment plant in those local self-governments that have prepared documentation and that have some effects either cross-border or that are very important to solve this problem. Yesterday, just when he was President of the Parliament of Slovenia, he spoke about it. When we asked him what was very important to accompany these new trends to the EU, he first mentioned environmental protection. If we don't invest in the construction of these wastewater treatment plants, to get some of these environments, where it's done, for example. Some new visitors, some new investors, showed some new tourist attractions that, I believe, every environment and every municipality here in Serbia has, I don't think we can move on. So, if we follow these modern European trends, we have to deal with environmental protection in any case. Speaking of which, I would like to ask a question about the environment – are the funds planned for subsidies to recycling waste for this year? As far as I know, the competition hasn't been called yet, and neither has the funds since last year been paid. I believe that this is a very important thing, first of all, to monitor modern materials and to be in line with what you're saying, to follow EU trends. Also, I think it's very important that we add another dollar, so let's make it a hundred million dinars to continue Corridor 11, I've talked about this before, without which there is no life first in western Serbia. Also, if we are already following these trends both the EU and the modernism of European states, we must also cross the border crossings to perfect them, to modulate them, so I suggest that compared to 2,200,000 dinars, how much it is to not put out this position left for the construction of the Kotroman border crossing between Serbia and BiH, that it be replaced by 4,200,000 dinars, and that we really finally do this border crossing in order to fully modernise this country. I agree that we need to save, but we need to make a good balance between the austerity measures and the development projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20286	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message from Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS has submitted an amendment to this article because the 2013 budget has planned capital expenditure for investments in culture, for the rehabilitation and adaptation of the National Museum. In 2013, 130 million dinars were foreseen, and the rebalancing for its recovery envisioned zero dinars. For the rehabilitation and adaptation and upgrade of the Museum of Contemporary Art for 2013, the budget envisioned 266,470,000 dinars, with the rebalancing in half. Given the importance of the National Museum and the fact that it's been a decade since the beginning of its restoration, we at the DSS consider it inadmissible to completely twist, so to speak, the funds for the reconstruction of this museum. Ladies and gentlemen, the culture of a nation that is not great, such as the Serbian people, is our last line of defense. If we don't have it, we won't know who we are or what we are. The only thing I fear is that there are more and more statements that Serbs need to change the "meind set", i.e. consciousness, that this is about trying to change their minds. Consciousness can be individual and collective. Of course, individual consciousness is very difficult to change, and it falls within the realm of pathology and crime if it changes. But collective consciousness is tradition, culture, cultural values. If you take that away from us, gentlemen from the government, we really won't know who we are or what we are, we'll be just one uninformed mass.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20288	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20289	I'll tell you right away you're absolutely right, Mrs. Raskovic. Unfortunately for me, we took that money off because that money wouldn't be spent. You wouldn't spend a single penny, because there's absolutely no project to pull that off. When you justifiably say that the reconstruction of the National Museum should be completed, I have supported and provided money regularly with the budget for years. I've been told from the Ministry of Culture that if that money remained, no single dinar would be spent. They asked me to take it down and put it on some projects that would be implemented, with an explanation that it doesn't exist from an engineering aspect, not from the aspect of the need for culture, that there's no project that can be realized, which in itself is scandalous. I absolutely agree with you because for years we have been talking about the need for reconstruction not only of the National Museum but of other institutions of culture. I remember that year when I was in the first term of the finance minister, I always gave money, whenever people in culture asked for that money, and then the realisation turned out not to be spent for what was actually asked, and when it came to engineers, it wasn't always, but it wasn't in many cases – it wasn't the case when it was the cinema museum, because there was really an investment, when there was a Leskovac Theatre, as well as the National Library, it was finished, as well as some others, but for the museum we've been listening to it for years, that same story. It's not that the Treasury doesn't want to support it, but it would have cost that money fictitiously, and I wouldn't have spent any money, because they told me technically it couldn't be realized, and I don't know for what reason. I support your presentations for the reason that the public should then make an appeal and then let's see what the problem is and why these investments don't come true. The money was out of the budget, and it could've stayed, we could've never taken it off, but I was sorry, in a way, when they said they wouldn't spend it because they didn't have any technical documentation, or whatever it was, that we were leaving the fictitious money, and then they called me again that it was my fault. It is better to say publicly – this project is not ready to be realized. Whoever did this has to determine and punish him for not doing part of his job, and we're basically holding some money for a project that won't be realized, we didn't want to. That's why we gave culture more resources than it had in the original budget. It's the only ministry that currently has an increase in the budget, at least modestly. That is why we have accepted, as Government, an amendment that allows culture, as well as higher education institutions, to have their own incomes at their disposal permanently. So, they will be left with their own income and they will decide on their own schedule, not to enter into general budget income, so that we accepted it in the amendments to the Budgetary System Act, as well as for all other cultural institutions, as we have done in the same way with higher education institutions at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20290	Replica, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20291	Mr. Minister, I am very pleased that you share not only my opinion, but also the opinion of our parliamentary group. However, someone should be held accountable. You mentioned the Museum of Cinematheque and I was really at the Cinematheque, it's impressive and it looks amazing. Someone at the museum, at the National Museum, should be responsible for why these projects have not been designed so far. I would continue to plead great work in culture. We did not respond to the fact that the Croats take Tesla from us and take Ivo Andric, who is our only Nobel laureate and we are all proud of, and the museums neither Tesla nor Andricev do what they should do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20292	By amendment, MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20293	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was brought by this amendment by Mrs. Raskovic to say something about budget rebalancing and in general about the budget. To make one budget in a country that is like Serbia, where the economy does not work, with 50% capacity, it is very difficult to make a budget and it is even harder to rebalance the budget. Nor am I here to praise the budget rebalancing, nor am I here to challenge the MPs who have tabled proposals, amendments that have not been accepted. We need to understand one thing, we MPs give amendments in part, looking at this budget rebalancing the way that suits us. In this particular case, it was quite obvious that what Mr. Minister said was fine, because the money could not or could not be used because there are no various programmes of these users' budgets. The amendment to be made must have a basis, that there is an MP and everyone else to have a total amount of expenditure and total income. We can't do it ourselves, because it'll be some kind of imbalance, if we do something and the government doesn't accept that amendment. It's very difficult, I'm telling you that I'm not the one who praises the rebalancing of the MPs, and I just wanted to let you know that we have to approach these amendments in some other way, which will justify that expenditure and income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20294	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Dejan Mihaylov, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20295	Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to Mr. Vuceti Toskovic, I think you should have taken care of his presentation and warned him for two reasons. He answered, Article 27. Rules of Procedure, to talk about the amendment and not to talk about the amendment. The second thing, he insulted the DSS MPs, who he says are not being prepared and that they should prepare when they write amendments and when they come to the session. If someone in this congregation is once prepared to discuss all the laws, amendments, and when he reads the law and amendments he writes, they are DSS MPs. Just keep in mind that don't let the work of some MPs belittled in this way. It is certain that most MPs of the ruling coalition do not even know what the budget looks like, nor did it open it, but by the voting mechanism for the budget. Then let us who are willing to make an effort to correct the text of the budget and who we want to give our view of how the budget should look, that someone does not demean it in a way that we do not read the budget, we do not know what we are doing and that we simply don't need to do anything because we cannot look at the whole, but the government is the only one who has the exclusive right to the truth, justice, to look at the whole, and that if we think we need something, we're not enough frames, smart, educated and read to do it. It's just that it's not right and everyone in this congregation needs to be respected. We do not call on the MPs of the majority not to sit in the hall when discussing the most important laws, not knowing what they're talking about, not knowing what the amendments are. We don't do that. We are concerned with what is the work of every MP, that, in accordance with our obligations, we are extremely responsible and we are seriously discussing this law. That's one suggestion, to protect the MPs who work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20296	Of course, it is necessary for all MPs to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, as you do when you say that most MPs from the government have not even read the budget. You're doing the exact same thing that made you volunteer to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I see it as part of a political struggle in this House. Who was present, I'd like to inform you that you can get information from the competent congregation service. I'd like to go back to the agenda debate, the budget, because these are topics that are very important. Mr. Radenkovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20297	Thank you, Mr. President. You hurt Article 107(1) when you didn't break up the previous speaker. I think it would be okay for a colleague to apologize to all of us if it wasn't right for him to insult all MPs. We are taking part in the debate here, and we will always participate, but in a constructive debate. A senseless debate to talk, to have someone see them talk, if they were MPs here, we don't need it here. We don't belong to an uninformed president so we don't know what's on the agenda and what the amendments are. A colleague is obliged to apologize to all of us for insulting his colleagues. I think it's really a shame that someone says that we have no idea what's on the agenda or what's the amendment on the agenda. You have violated the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to warn such colleagues in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20298	I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken because after his presentation, I have warned the MP of all that I consider to be out of line with the Rules of Procedure. Of course I have to listen to what the MP is going to say to know what his exposure is all about. Mr. Mihajlov, since I'm not going to give Mr. Toskovic a violation, I'm not going to give you the right to a replica. You're right about business. If you use that as a right to replication, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20299	I won't. I want to go by article 27. If, after my remarks on the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Toskovic, you said that I was wrong and that I have no record of how much he talks, you should have also warned Mr Radenkovic because he made a series of accusations against the DSS parliamentary group. He said it doesn't belong to a party like this or the kind of uninformed, working and not working. That's all Mr. Radenkovic said. We'll look for a stenogram. You should have made his remarks about the breach of the Rules of Procedure to warn him not to insult the other parliamentary groups. If we start talking about Slobodan Milosevic and everyone else in his political party about what they were doing, how much they ruined this country and put in debt, what budgets they were making, what situation we were living in then, then this debate won't take us away. You should have warned Mr Radenkovic when he was making remarks on the Rules of Procedure and you should say - make an observation, and then that's the end, as you told me when I finished that I was wrong and I have no authority. It always hits me when someone says the DSS MPs don't read the budget and don't come ready and we don't participate in the debate argued. No, all of our arguments since this morning, all of our debate is highly justified and well-intentioned and therefore I ask you to next time and MPs of the ruling coalition in the same way as you made a complaint to me and to make their remarks and to follow their exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20300	I have a problem. If I were to interpret every innuendo that the MP thought of and thus engage in the qualification of certain parliamentary groups in such a way that it was not even mentioned, I would be in danger of violating the dignity and the Rules of Procedure, because someone who says and does not mention the MP's group, or the name, or anything, if you respond to that by recognising a certain parliamentary group, I would be as someone who gives an argument to the presentation of the previous speaker. I honestly agree with you. I hope we can avoid any insult in the future. I think this debate has run very well so far, and I appreciate the efforts of all MPs. After all, the public sees who is working hard in this National Assembly and who is not trying. I don't think we should get into that. There are citizens who will evaluate. Let's keep working. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miroljub Stojcic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20301	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, ends on July 2nd exactly one year after it burned to the ground the National Theatre "Bora Stankovic" in Vranja, a theatre that has a tradition of nearly 120 years and represents a pillar of South Serbian culture and is one of the most recognizable theatres in the theatre life of all Serbia. I must say, the perpetrators of this act have not yet been found and have not been convicted after a year. The town of Vranje has done a number of steps over the past year to start the reconstruction and resolution of this problem, so that the past period has cleared the garage and that a series of actions have been carried out to collect about 35 million dinars for the reconstruction of this theatre, that the EU has financed complete technical documentation through the Progress Programme. In order to move towards the realization of this project, about 150 million dinars will be needed only for construction works of about 60 million dinars. For these reasons, I have proposed an amendment to Article 5 which reads that the review of the planned capital expenditures of budgetary users for the current and next year was divided by 27. The Ministry of Culture and Information, the name of the body – cultural institutions, in column – the name of the capital facility below words – the rehabilitation and adaptation of the National Museum add words – the construction of the theatre "Bora Stanković" in Vranje and the amount of funds for 2013, 24.5 million dinars. The amount of this appraisal is intended for the rehabilitation and adaptation of the Museum of Contemporary Art at the height of 124,569,890 dinars, to replace the amount of 100,069,890 dinars. My goal was to shift some of the funds from the position of reconstruction of the Museum of Contemporary Art in the amount of 24.5 million dinars for the construction and restoration of the Bora Stankovic theatre in Vranje. The amendment the ministry gave, and the committee accepted, says the amendment is not accepted because economic classification 511. – buildings and construction facilities on which funds for capital expenditure are provided by cultural institutions include capital investments in cultural institutions established by the Republic of Serbia and do not correspond to the character of funds to finance cultural institutions established by local self-government units. I accept such an explanation, Mr. Minister, but I ask you yes, and I have heard that when the debate was in particular promised that the possibility would be found to allocate the necessary funds to begin with the reconstruction and reconstruction of this theatre, since it is impossible to call a tender for a new Public Procurement Act until adequate funds are provided, on behalf of the citizens of Vranja and all fans of the theatre life to provide these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20302	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20303	As I said, both regarding the National Museum, you know, and yourself, in order to move forward with the realization of a project, this project needs to be done. Do you have this project? When you do that project, then you deliver it to the Ministry of Culture, and they send it to us, that you have the project documentation and address the request for a current budget reserve. I told the SNS MP, Mr Nikolic, that it seems to me that we will gladly single out those 25 million dinars of the Republic's participation in the restoration of the Vranje theatre. That's what I said two days ago, and here's what I'm saying today. In order not to again be the funds that have been allocated and standing on the budget, and in the end they do not spend, as has been the case for years with the National Museum or other projects, then I ask people who work in the city of Vranje to prepare everything properly, to calculate well, to then deliver material and resources will be available. I've already said, if you call me, I'd be happy to come to the opening of that theater because the Vranians deserve it to be restored.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20304	The word has the People's MP Miroljub Stojcic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20305	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Just to inform you, and I said just before when I explained the amendment, that the EU, or the Progress programme, has funded the complete technical documentation related to this project, so as you have explained, we will submit certain requirements. I'm really glad you're gonna support this project of ours. We hope that when we mark the anniversary of the theatre in January, we will have a final theatre. Thank you very much, and we'll invite you to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20306	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20307	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have made an amendment and we have asked for a colleague of Stojcic, who is also an MP from Vranj, regardless of the option I belong to, but together we are here to protect the interests of all citizens of Vranja and the Pcinj County. But when there was a debate in the tide, when we talked about everything, I asked you then and I got the answer, I got your promise. You made that promise again today, and I want to make you a promise now. By July 17th, we will have prepared all the technical documentation, and it has already been paid in advance and an idea solution has already been made, and it should only be developed through one general plan. I think that theatre will be at the height of everyone in Vranj, and of course we will also express our great gratitude to the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, which will help this project with 25 million dinars. What we've managed, from some poor girl of ours, to collect, is about 40 million. Believe me, it can't anymore, there were a lot of voluntary contributions, there were a lot of people on the side, considering that they loved their city, that they loved Vranje, that they loved the theater, that helped with more serious financial resources. However, it is impossible to squeeze anything more out of dry Drenina. As a man representing the Republic Government, I fully thank you on my behalf and on behalf of all the Vranians. What you asked of us will come to you by the end of July. The request by the mayor of Vranj, in writing, will be sent and sent to you and the technical documentation will be sent to you on 18 July. I think by the end of the month you have it, so we can finish this thing. When that theater opens, which we all look forward to, we'll call you, you'll be a dear guest, and I think we'll call some more people in this assembly, considering they're responsible for something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20308	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20309	Dear ladies and gentlemen, just one sentence concerning the crows and the culture. Given the multiethnicity of this municipality, given the really good relations of people living in that municipality, I think it is of great importance for the minister to do as he said, because really by encouraging such activities in southern Serbia, in Vranj, we are really moving Serbia towards the multiethnicity and Europe we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20310	The 5th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Prof. Dr. Ruzica Igic. The word is Dr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20311	Mr. President, I ask you to use my time, if these two minutes pass, as a time-authorized representative. Thank you. Mr. Minister, I've made an amendment to Article 5 where the irrigation budget is shrinking by one half. 500 million were scheduled earlier, and now that amount is reduced to 250 million dinars. Of course, we know there's no money, we know it's hard. My remark about this amendment is that, as Minister of Economy, in your best interest, it is in the interest of your ministry, of course, and the Ministry of Agriculture, whether this number for irrigation remains the same. This is what drives the entire farm, and I'll give you a few examples. We have the smallest detachments in Europe to revitalise the irrigation and deforestation system. Basically, it's one of the top priorities in all of Europe. If we take just the information that more than a million people live from agriculture in Serbia directly and indirectly, that is to say, over a million people are directly and indirectly involved in agriculture, then that importance becomes even greater. The participation of agriculture in GDP is high. I'm sure this is the one thing you should have insisted on with your colleagues. We have a percentage of the smallest share of land that is irrigated in Europe. Today we have a channel network, which is practically unusable, and we also have geographic and water resources that are in favour of this process. For years, however, a tenth of years, this problem has been ignored. In Serbia, only 1.5% of total farmland is irrigated. Use only one-sixth of the installed irrigation system. Drainage, which is needed, especially in these months, in spring and summer, is even less used. I'll just give you some information. We water only 1.5% of the total working surface, while Hungary irrigates four times higher, Croatia five times higher, Romania even eight times more. Of course, we know that investments in this segment are necessary. Surely taking advantage of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel system, the Danube, Sava, Tisa, Morava and other larger and smaller rivers would be the primary priority in state investment in infrastructure, if there were a lot of money. Now they're gone, and we have to at least partially. I think that potential created in this diversification of foreign trade, and I'm specifically mentioning this excellent potential in cooperation with the Arabs, as far as agriculture is concerned, is something they expect from us, to see at least small steps. Personally, I'm always in favour of this kind of thing, since these are large infrastructure projects, these projects, they're looking for special credit funds, because this without large funds, without large credits, can't be done. In the world, out of a total of 1.5 billion hectares of farmland, I will give a small example, irrigating 250 million hectares or 17% of the area. So 17% of the world's surfaces, of the total working surfaces, are irrigated. But it's interesting that these 17% that are irrigated worldwide produce 40% of the world's total food production - 40%. About 1.5 million hectares of agricultural land could be irrigated in Serbia. Of course, we'll remember, we talked about it in this assembly and in 2012, when we had huge drought damage. The damages are estimated at about 1 billion euros. Realistically, the damage was even greater, given the European average of the yield, that we had irrigation systems. I'll also consider the climate change that's happening. This will indeed be for any other government in the future one of the biggest challenges. Maybe it's a segment where we can expect, like it was an idea with the Arabs, a public-private partnership. It may be the best model, so that our potential that exists can be used along with private capital, which would have a medium-term interest in it. Of course, with small investments that the state might also be able to do in the next two or three years, I think we could use very small investments to irrigate close to 100,000 hectares of farmland. Why? Because there is already a Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel and it covers 960km of canal network and if it has 22,000 kilometers of additional channel network that can connect to the main channel, then it is clear that with only 100 meters of irrigation around that canal we can get the area of about 100,000 hectares and then we could have two harvests. The goal of the construction of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav canal was to drain excess water from a million hectares of land and irrigate about 500,000 hectares. Of course, in addition, on this land that would be irrigated, and I am sorry that these investments have been reduced twice, of course they couldn't do this, but even if the process was partly launched, it is also possible in the future to introduce high-priced intensive industrial cultures, such as vegetables and fruit, which incomes from the same surfaces increase up to five times. Of course, it would also help to eat cattle and thus lead to more competitive livestock farming and agri-industry would become more internationally competitive. I'd like to add that it's hardly that, regardless of any budget being made, this topic will be crucial. I suggest that in the 2014 budget, which is coming soon, there are three months left – July, August, September, October, the budget is already being prepared, perhaps we should consider a completely new approach to the 2014 budget, just for this irrigation. Maybe you need extra credit. Once again, we at the DSS are in favour of this diversification of foreign trade relations and we fully support this contract with the Emirates, we have already said that several times. We think that this model of public private partnership or land concession is a long line of years or partial sales, that this is the concept of food capacity, that this is the concept that is ideal and that I think we really need to invest all the power during the summer and autumn to make this contract happen. It comes to us soon and on 1 January 2014, I am talking about agriculture, and there will be almost full liberalisation of imports of agricultural products and even more competition will emerge on the market for our agricultural and food producers. We talked and we suggested several times, since there is a possibility in the SAA to delay the partial application of this model, if I quote, "there is a concrete damage to the country that signs it". We spoke several times, and there were indications that the government would initiate this procedure. We continue to argue that this would be the best or optimal solution at this point for our agriculture, that this application should be postponed until further notice. About a million people involved in agriculture, also by additional investment in agriculture, we need to raise the level of processing in order for the strongest branch to be exported today and the healthiest of all branches to raise the level of processing in agriculture, or in food production, in order for these products to have an even greater added value to producers. When we export only raw materials, of course the income and that the profits are much smaller for our agricultural and food producers and we think that, as we used to do with large economic systems such as "Genex", "Inex" and "Progress", we should think about a model that would help skilled small producers concentrate power and potential to be competitive, of course clustered or otherwise, in export operations. We talked about Iceland last time. With its fishing, i.e. with its fish export, almost 80% of exports go to the EU, Iceland has also felt the danger of a strategic partner and have launched major strategic fishing projects with China in the last five years. I think the orientation with China, even in agriculture, would be one of your 2014 targets, in addition to the Arab Emirates. The three, four months will pass quickly, and we will discuss the 2014 budget here, and I think it is now a moment for these horizontal links, which you have for countries that are potential investors, large investors, which appreciate the agricultural potential that we have and which have, today the funds needed to invest in agricultural infrastructure, to be the right moment, and I suggest you use these three, four months to establish the deepest possible co-operation, even stronger and even bigger, so that some of the first projects can be realized in the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20312	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20313	I think you're absolutely right, but somehow I feel the need to share with you, the MPs, something I consider Serbia's biggest problem in the last ten years, and it's an incredibly bad organisation in implementing infrastructure projects. It is true that we have reduced 250 million dinars in the division, related to water, to irrigation for this year. They have two things, because we also added $400m of credit from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, which takes half of it to go for this, a lot more than we've reduced, and on the other hand, given the fact that, say, the Ministry of Agriculture has contracted loans for about $100 million in 2007, of which is still $13.5 million for irrigation, let's say that $13.5 million is about a billion and a half dinar, we've now downloaded 250 million. So six times more money than what's been taken off has been available a long time since 2007. It's true that this loan has been withdrawn, but it's not 100%, with 80%. That's not a bad retreat, but how long? All 100 million dollars to invest in irrigation has been withdrawn. So, from 2007 to 2013, which means six years. In six years, only 80% of the $100 million was withdrawn, or $80 million. We now need to get 200 million dollars and give our own participation, about 20 percent. So we'll have it at our disposal, right after this summer, $240 million of new irrigation money, and we have experience that the last seven years have spent only $80 million from the loan. What's he saying? I may say something that some people won't like, but it showed up, if it's a reason or something, I'm just talking about facts, but in Vojvodina, the first channels were done during Maria Teresa. Then during the former Yugoslavia, the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel was upgraded and made. All other major projects, from Gerdap to thermal power plants, were also done at that time. That former path of brotherhood and unity, etc., and it was then done. It turns out the multi-party system in Serbia is disastrous for infrastructure projects. Is that true, I don't know, but I'm just saying it's happening. We now have the Serbians, the Dukes and the Belgrades, who are supposed to agree on what they're doing. We've got "Serbs" and we've got the Water Directorate. We barely got projects to compete with the government of Abu Dhabi. We've been waiting months and months -- give us people projects. People want to give money, we need it for irrigation, so that exactly what you, Mr. Popovic, say correctly, irrigate, and have many more yields per hectare than we have now. You're absolutely right and I know it all. As finance minister, I guarantee that I will secure the money, but what happens later, and if it will take us a year, two years, or a hundred years to make that money real, it depends on the organization of the infrastructure project, where only one of these irrigation is. Generally, this applies to all infrastructure projects. This is where Serbia has to draw the line, according to me, and say – this has not been good so far, let's see how we do it. Abu Dhabi tells us – here is the money, let all Serbian companies do it. So they don't condition at all. They say, "You question the tenders yourself, make a deal, and we give you money to help your people." They did their part of the job. We have already been told publicly that the contract is before the signing, that they approved. They waited, and we completed the last documentation by June, even though we already knew the Malten Winters that they wanted to help us with these projects. We've been through this whole construction season on that. As it goes on, we'll see. I would also like to hear the MPs' proposals on how to address the issue of implementation of infrastructure projects. Why do I say multiparty system? Maybe it doesn't matter. There are multi-party systems in Western Europe, so they realize projects. I'm not going to say that the multiparty system is guilty, but the fact is that there's something wrong and there's too many of these components in the realisation of the projects. We were asked by the Emirat people - why do you need so many institutions in the chain? They're asking us -- isn't it enough for the government to sign a contract with the government, like we're going to do an interstate agreement? They give us money and the Treasury ends the job. Then you have a competent ministry to carry out and there's one command to do it effectively and to know who's going to be punished and replaced. So it's just amazing. It's our biggest wound cancer. I have already said that we have as much as 3.3 billion euros of undrawn favourable credit funds for infrastructure projects. The government of Abu Dhabi, we'll see what the interest rate will be, but they're thinking of making it 0.5% a year. It's nowhere to be found. So 0.5% a year for 20 or 30 years, that's really something you can't get anywhere in the world. Up to 3% or 3.5% fixed annually, in some ways, in these conditions of high interest rates in the world, comes as a half gift. It's not a gift because it has to come back, but people want to help us. I think that social consciousness needs to be triggered. I don't want to judge anyone here. What happened earlier was, but we need to see how in the future we can implement projects more effectively, because it's not easy to run the country's finances. Your MP club was active this morning. I didn't answer a few things, so maybe I should mention that. Regarding public debt, what is the starting cost for the state is some major debt this year, which was 3.5 billion euros and 800m euros for interest. That's what you read, when you recalculate these figures in euro. So that's something that we've been waiting for as something that was simply given from the previous period. The problem is that these principals are getting bigger and bigger interest rates, and the cost of interest has increased four times over the last four or five years. We've come to the point that even for the budget next year, if the theoretical deficit is zero, which is impossible, can't be zero because you know what our incomes are and how much expenditure needs are, we're still waiting for that strategic cost of about 4.5 billion euros for the principal and interest, without deficits next year. When I say no deficits, I didn't exactly say it, because one part that goes for interest goes into the deficit. The problem with our country is that the huge cost of growing interest eats everything that should be productively invested. If you don't pay the interest, you are declared to be a country unable to serve its obligations. Of course, we will never allow or allow it. I admit it's incredibly difficult to plan the budget this year, and next year it'll be even harder. At least when we can get these favourable infrastructure loans, there's got to be a whole new model of the organization. I think it's actually going to be the key topic of our talks on government reconstruction. So you definitely can't do this anymore. If this goes on, then our government takes responsibility and guilt for what it's not guilty of. MP Djuric was right when he said those things about "The Way of Serbia". I've been asking in the meantime to see how long these debts have been spoken of. I received a truly devastating answer that contracts with some companies, which are due today, were concluded in 1992. Eleven times they've been annexed. Yes, in 1992, you hear well. I didn't know that information either. I thank the MP for provoking me to ask what this is all about. Of course, travel companies aren't guilty, they're doing business, but they are guilty of Serbian Roads if they do. I absolutely don't think he can do that anymore. Thank you to all MPs for pointing to problems. I think the worst thing is to keep quiet about problems and about infrastructure projects and about these companies that should maintain roads. I have to say that in December, we had a meeting with both the Serbian Roads and the banks to try to solve a long road trip once and for all. I wanted to work it out last year. That's when the balances presented to us came out that with about five billion dinars, we're solving a total debt. We paid for it and owed it to the state for some delays from the previous period. Then now a billion and 300 million more republican levels jump out this summer. I'm asking-- since when is that? Well, from the same time we spoke, only someone hadn't presented it to us and told us. That's where the sanctions have to be put. Whoever is looking for sanctions for the Serbian Road Administration has absolutely my support and I will do it myself. I'm not talking about this argument about the VAT billing and refusing to do it for seven or eight years and from the previous finance ministry that tolerated it. So, this can't be done to make everyone like us, not me, not anyone who wants good to this country. I think the role of both the opposition and the parties of the ruling coalition is to call things the right name, what should be continued, and what is not to be removed. If we don't remove it now, the opposition in the future, if one day it's in power, it'll be the same problem. What did we do with it? Nothing. It's not about the opposition and the authorities here, it's about the citizens, these farmers. They can't build a primary network of irrigation canals. Both secondary and primary should actually be done by the state, and only farmers to give money to attach to both channels and the transmission network. So one big save around the organisation of infrastructure projects is needed in Serbia, but for all infrastructure projects. It's not just roads, it's roads and railways and energy and irrigation, so everything that needs to be done in infrastructure and where, indeed, we're proud to say, better engineering, better technical intelligence than many other countries in the world. That's right. How is it possible that with such intelligence, with such a frame, we have what we now have? I also had a meeting with the Ambassador of Azerbaijan. This company, Azvirt, that runs a stock from Liga to Chačka, is doing a great job. They're doing good. So far, the public hasn't had a chance to see, they started working at the end of last year, but they work very well. It's a joint investment between a German company and Azerbaijan. Complete German technology is at work in Serbia, and mostly Serbian workers and Serbian businesses work. So almost 75% of our companies do. Indeed, it is for all praise. But they tell me yesterday, I really don't understand it – you have a completely different standard of asphalt compared to all other serious countries, where they involve themselves, Azerbaijan. We're not talking about Germany right now, we're talking about Azerbaijan, we're talking about other countries. We can do this much better, with three layers that have to be different, and you're asking us to do worse, with two layers of one, and the exact same. I don't know exactly what this is about, I'm neither an expert nor an asphalt or a building, but it's a shame that when you enter Serbia, you notice a visibly poor quality of asphalt compared to any country where you came from and bordered with Serbia. I stand for it – let these standards change. I'll appeal to my colleagues, when we talk about the government's reconstruction, let's draw a line. Better before later. Thank you from the opposition for pointing to that. That's your role.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20314	The word is Mr Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20315	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I am pleased that you have decided in the government and I call on the prime minister, all vice-presidents, ministers to increase the funds in the budget for the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, modestly, with 170 million dinars, given that it is for the construction of houses for returnees, social cases, etc. That's good again, and I hope you'll continue that practice even better. My question and my dear colleague Bojan Jakovljevic's question is this. In Kosovo and Metohija, there is a Serbian folk theater that exists in terribly difficult conditions. Is there any possibility, Mr. Minister, that the Serbian National Theatre in Kosovo and Metohija should be determined by certain means that this hall I visited with the MPs last month, at the invitation of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, is being slightly equipped and renovated? If they can't get better, in the end, when our artists go, they can go and visit in those theaters. The other thing is, it's all there, mostly enthusiasts, and they get salaries from those who are professionals and work. However, I think that a modest, very modest amount should be allocated to them, found in the budget, so that they can exist, because without a culture there Serbs have nothing to look for, that is the basis. I thank you in advance, and I believe that you will find it within the scope of opportunity, that, believe me, is a very, very modest means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20316	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20317	In the discussion in principle and today when we speak in particular, namely, Article 106. Rules of Procedure - that the speaker can only talk about the point on the agenda. So, I don't think that every speaker can interpret a particular topic in a slightly wider and more appropriate way, but I believe that Minister Dinkic, as many times as ever, uses the assembly speaker to talk about everything and everything, and at least about what's on the agenda. In fact, he, as you know, was 54 or 55 minutes away when he spoke in the opening statement on budget rebalancing, only four minutes talking about budget rebalancing. Today is a debate in particular, and he spoke earlier about the thickness of the asphalt. I don't see the subject or the amendment that has anything to do with it. If you measure the time of day that was scheduled for MPs and how much the minister spoke, you can see that the minister spoke more than the MPs. There is a measure that is not written in the Rules of Procedure, which is a measure of good taste. So if before that the MP speaks for three minutes, and the minister speaks 15 minutes past the topic, today is not on the agenda of the government's reconstruction and there is no need to prove yourself to anyone, nor are the elections so soon, Mr Dinkic, at least from your coalition they say so. I think it would be good for you to hear the MPs explain their amendments, try to accept some because, as far as I'm concerned, you didn't accept any of them at the government, perhaps today you could even accept some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20318	The word is Mr. Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20319	Article 27 and Article 107. If anyone is open to this parliament here, then it's Minister Dinkic. As you can see, he openly discusses all the problems, he very much respects the opposition parties' objections and suggestions, the open story of problems, does not hide problems. I think it's ideal and it's great and that we all together as MPs should appreciate one openness. We don't need ministers here who won't debate with MPs. I think it would be a tragedy and a disaster if we had a silencer or I don't know what kind of minister who won't respect this assembly. Well done, Minister, just keep it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20320	Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20321	I apologize to someone if they think I spoke a lot today. I tried to listen to all the remarks and then call once and answer everyone who had previously discussed it, so that he would leave more time to the MPs. As for the last questions I received, we today accepted the Committee of the Finance Assembly to increase investment in Kosovo and Metohija by 170 million dinars compared to what was planned. The Kosovo and Metohija offices will have the right to decide which investments will be made. I will not interfere, as minister, in the work of my resolution colleagues, they will decide for themselves, and I will convey to them what you have suggested and you can also directly discuss it with them. I certainly think that this purpose that you mentioned is very useful and necessary for our citizens in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20322	According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20323	I'll try the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, unless I make a mistake. I will support Mr Popovic and Mrs Igic's amendment. It is an amendment that encourages irrigation in agriculture, which changes the amount of 250 million to the burden of the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Authority and the amount of 559 million to 309 million. The reason, of course, is agriculture, and here when we're spoken, when we're hit by drought and when we talk about agriculture and droughts, then crocodile tears are poured out, but when budgets and budget rebalances come, then those tears that flow together by the ruling and opposition parties, there's no such tears in the figures. So we come up with clean technical numbers that have been copied for years, increasing slightly or slightly. This whole budget is actually a redistribution of poverty where I don't see that the state is going to make something cheap, and I also don't see that our economy is going to be improved. Thanks to the estimated investment of 250 million in Gulf Systems. I am willing to support the amendment, a team before agriculture is denied by 3.3 billion in this budget, which is about a dozen percent of the original budget funds we were committed to agriculture. To add that the budget deficit would certainly be higher this year, and it was almost the same as last year that subsidies were paid, premiums in time to farmers. So, out of about 25 billion, I don't believe that farmers realised in this year the first six months of only two, three billion funds that were allocated to them for this year. I believe that these 98 billion budget deficits would be almost equal to that 112 billion since last year that decisions, i.e. the law in this Assembly that was made and that the Ministry of Agriculture did its part of the job, that the premiums, subsidies and incentives in agriculture were paid through the vault, because they did not, that budget deficit was reduced. If we want to improve agricultural production, if we want to raise on a social product, then this amendment is meaningful and if you invest 250 million more in the gulf systems it will return to you multiple times. I'm slightly disappointed in the whole budget. So, I welcome what the state will save, but I'm afraid it saves on items where it doesn't need to. We need a cheaper state, we need an economy that will deliver a larger social product, but I'm afraid that by cutting down on agriculture, we won't make more GDP thanks to who we all need to share more together. So, if we are in the theory of supporting the agricultural processing industry then we should prove it in action, and therefore I think that this amendment makes sense in the day to vote, if the proposer lets me know, given the many amendments, I will vote in favour of this amendment, given that it is agriculture, a branch that should provide more money for all of us. I don't think by saving up on agriculture we're going to get nothing, and by adding funds especially in the bay systems we can make out of the country without any imports, to make an additional social product, so together, we all have something to share. So, to make that GDP, that cake bigger and thicker, and I'm afraid with neither the original budget nor the budget rebalance we don't make an economy, we're just making an economy that has to support an expensive state. I welcome the fact that we saved something in that expensive state, but I don't see that we hit the administration, throwing agriculture at that savings, we're not going to grow pigs fat enough to feed us. I think by depriveing the funds from agriculture, we're going to do something that wasn't our goal at first sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20324	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20325	When it comes to this amendment, counterparts Igic and counterpart Popovic, the DS could support the amendment, and depending on Minister Dinkic's response to one issue on the issue of irrigation. We were already here in the assembly discussing an international contract, i.e. a contract with a foreign company called Al Dahra, which was supposed to invest significant irrigation funds in Serbia. Although we of the DS have pointed out the possible adverse effects of some of the elements of this contract, above all, on its intransparency, we were prepared to support this one, for the time being, the truth of unrealised investment of the new government. Depending on the answer we refer to Minister Dinkic, which is – when will the contract with Al Dahorm be concluded regarding the purchase of agricultural land? Since last time, or two times last time, we had a pretty undefined answer on your part, so is the contract concluded with Aldhar? When will the first funds of the contract, therefore, not for planes, but for land, purchase and lease land, when will it come to Serbia and will it be invested in these irrigation systems as you promised? I think you mentioned June first and then July. I thought you even said that contract was signed. I'm not quite sure that contract was signed. So, I ask you -- is the contract signed and when will the first funds arrive in Serbia? If that is not true, you have seriously deceived both you and Mr. Vukic of the citizens of Serbia because you announced this investment as a rebirth of Serbia. Two or three blinded Mercedes arrived as a reward for the job, taking pictures, house visits, exchanges of gifts, etc., but Serbian citizens have nothing to do with it. Did you once again give false information to Mr. Dinkic? When will the money catch up to you and when will the water run out of these irrigation systems? To know if we should vote for this amendment or if the money comes from Al Dahra?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20326	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20327	I gave you the right information, we signed that contract, so the contract was signed in the last week of March, I don't know exactly what the date was, you can look in the archives. So it's not a pre-contract. It's a contract. The contract was signed at the end of March this year. The contract says that there is a certain period of time when the transaction is to be completed and now everything depends on their side. Our side has prepared its affairs regarding the execution of the contract. We wait for our partners from the Emirates to finish what their part of the job is, and by the end of this year, that contract will be realised by the end, so it's signed. With all the contracts where you have a complex transaction like this, there's one period of execution. He'll be executed by the end of this year. They informed us that Shake Muhammad himself had made a decision to strengthen these Al Dahras who would participate on their part in the realization of this project. The thing is, right now in their backyard, we're waiting for them to finish what they need to finish. The Serbian side has prepared everything. Otherwise, as far as the irrigation project is concerned, what I was talking about is not related to Al Dahra, Al Dahra will build irrigation related to the properties they will handle. Here in front of the National Assembly there is also one guarantee for the development of Abu Dhabi of $400m, of which about half of the funds will be allocated to public infrastructure works to build a network of irrigation and disposal channels, not only in Vojvodina but also in central Serbia, and the other half for long-term investment loans, for farmers themselves. Also, the director of Abu Dhabi's Development Fund has announced that this loan will be granted and we wait for their board to formally conclude that, we expect in the second half of the year to come here to the Assembly with ratification of the contract. Now we've created a legal basis in the budget for this year, so the realisation of this loan will start in the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20328	Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20329	We will still vote in favour of the amendment of counterparts Igic and his colleagues Popovic, since of these money, it will be nothing, apparently. Dear Mr. Dinkic, you know that the contract would exist at all, it's the subject and the price and the payment deadline. Please, what's the payment deadline in this contract? You say that the state of Serbia has fulfilled all its obligations. What was the payment deadline for Al Dahra when she was supposed to pay, when she had to pay, and would she pay? Does Muhammad be late for payment, since you say he's changed his mind, to expand his team. So we didn't ask you that. Contracts must be very precise in these elements concerning economic aspects and deadlines. If he's changed his mind, it might concern some new contract you need to conclude or an annex contract on this one. Give us a clear answer as to how much payment is due, and how much funds they're going to give, you don't have to give exactly into the dollar, but about how much money they're going to get and when they get to Serbia, if you know the answer at all. If you don't know him, then I don't know who might give us an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20330	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20331	I've given that answer more than once, but I don't have a problem repeating it again. So, the contract is closed, and by the end of this year, a transaction is due. On the one hand, the Republic of Serbia is transferring to ownership what is the subject of a sales contract. At that time, there is a fulfillment of the transaction, a payment being made, and that is what the creditors of these companies are doing, and what remains goes into the state budget. If you ask when it will be, I said clearly, it will be by the end of this year, in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20332	Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20333	I can only conclude that now it's our government, time counts in months, so that's how we count the start date of the negotiations, the end of January, and here's the end of the year. I guess there's a date, December 31st or some date in January. It is not possible that the contract does not state the date of December 31st and it is not possible that the end of the year is set as payment deadline. I guess the end of the year was set, December 25th, December 26th. I'm afraid that deadline is not defined in this way and that, unfortunately, I didn't have the opportunity to see it, I hope it exists on the website in the Serbian version, so I can look at it on the site.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20334	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20335	I know that, unfortunately, by the way you stand out, what we do positively for Serbia is kind of going wrong. You'd like that. What you're doing, it's of course a question of your mentality, morals, I don't know what to say. It is not for free that one thing in our people, that one part of our people, and I hope, much smaller, has that saying, "God, the neighbor of the cow is dead." Don't deal with it, it's not nice, it's a bad trait of our fellow citizens, most of it isn't like that, and I'll be sorry for you, because you want it to go to waste, at the chance here the next time I come to the Assembly to tell you what happened to one project from Emirata, with another, with a third one. By then, you know what, you're not yourself, but some people from your party have attacked me – so when that contract with the "Fiyat" is gonna happen, so you signed it back then, so late and so long, and today there's no one to say, here, they're promoting a new car with seven seats, the biggest exporter in Serbia. I'm sorry, we were wrong to suspect that this would happen. Look, you guys talk about what you think, say it, and do what you want, and the Emirates are an important partner to us, and we respect them very much, and because we respect them very much, we don't want to interfere in their way of working. We have completed all our obligations, patiently waiting for the contract to be realised, and his time until the end of this year. That contract will be realised, as will others we have with this friendly country. You may not like the fact that we're gonna make an arrangement between Etihate and JAT, either, but that's your thing. We're gonna make it through what we started with Al Dahra, whether you like it or not. I'm sorry you don't like it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20336	Mr. Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20337	Don't be so angry, Mr. Minister, if I ask you very specific questions, except for this saying in the people that Serbs are prone to "the neighbour dies a cow", there is also "not a smoother donkey to green grass". We expect and ask you when the money will arrive, so that Serbian agriculture will not be deprived in particular? So, you won't answer me or you don't know when the date is, when the Emirates are supposed to pay the dollars that would be very useful to the Serbian economy and then you say I'm a fool. I'm only asking you for a date, and you say you wait very patiently, because you've fulfilled your obligations. From this I can read that the Emirates do not meet their obligations and that you will wait for them by the end of the year. In my opinion, as you say, they're already late. So, it's not about any malice, because I believe that all citizens of Serbia, I'm sure, all the MPs here, would be very eager to wait for you to tell me when those dollars will arrive in Serbia. You don't know it or you won't say it. Tell me what's out of it, those two. So it can't be the end of the year, that's what the contract says, I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20338	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20339	I already said they're not late. I said it was an internal reorganisation of Al Dahra's own company, not at Serbia's level, but at the level of their operation worldwide and therefore they have time to do so by the end of this year and they will meet the deadline. They informed us about the reorganization they have, because they are attaching another company to the same company and they are now conducting a full analysis of their business in all other countries in the world. When their reorganisation, internally, is done for both Latin American and Asian levels, both in Spain and in other countries, they will do so by the end of this year as agreed. If these combinations have failed 10 years ago, now it's a month, two or three, difference. The important thing is that the arrangement will be completed, that they are not in time and that everything is going as it is, that it's a complicated transaction and it's not simple at all. It's all intertwined with various debts, property relations, and we've cleared it up, prepared and waiting for them to complete their structure that they change at a global level, not at Serbia's level. We can't be the ones to dictate whether he's going to pay his dues in June, September or October, November, it's important to be there by the end of this year and it doesn't matter if it's gonna be a month, two or three, sooner or later. You won't laugh so bad when I come here to the assembly. (National Ambassador Janko Veselinović, from town: Who is laughing? Well, I see you making, by that principle, that the mosquitoes die of a cow. Unfortunately, you're one of those who obviously likes to apply that principle. Never mind, that's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20340	Janko Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20341	Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, please remind Mr. Secretary, first of all, I wasn't laughing, secondly, I'm not one of those who would like the neighbor to die a cow, because it's not a neighbor's cow, it's my cow. Serbia is our country. If you think Serbia is a "neighbour cow", it is by all accounts that you act that way. So you have no idea when to pay, or you don't know, or you won't tell. That's clear from your interpretation, now that's over, you didn't want to say at first, and now you're saying they're making a world-wide reorganisation that affects us, so we won't get paid. Why didn't you say that in the beginning? You're doing business with a company you claimed to be a great company in the world. We know it's not quite like that, that this company has had trouble doing business around the world, and it's leaving behind some clues that haven't been bright in forever, don't you think, Mr. Minister? We'll wait for that 31st December, but don't let me or anyone from the DS put in your mouth what we didn't say and put in DS or me that we're deluded about it. No, we're not, it's your only investment and the only Serbian investment, because you're in power now, and there's nothing from it, apparently, yet. That is why we will vote in favour of the DSS amendment and we will no longer discuss this matter with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20342	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20343	I'll argue with you, you can argue with me as much as you want. This stenogram from today's session we'll all have together when I come to defend the budget for next year, so you'll see what you've said. You just said I was lying, right? You said that. You said directly that I was lying because you said that I was lying that Al Dahra would finish the project and that I had deceived the public. Watch your mouth, that's what you said, you didn't use that word, but that's what you said. It's not fair, I'm just saying it's not fair. First, it's not the only investment of our government. Secondly, no investment in the economy as large as that. Al Dahra investment, such as "Ethicate", such as. "Boss," such as. "Geoks," that can't happen in a short time. You're using, I'm sure you know that, I don't underestimate your knowledge, you know that, and that's why I'm saying that you're deluded, because on purpose even though you know that it takes some time for investments to be realized, as it should have been for the Fiat, you know this, and now in some way, come on, you're using these opportunities that, of course, give you the right. You're an MP, you can say whatever you want, but you're showing your character, you're showing an indignation, you're showing that you'd like that project to fail. So it's not when you say -- why didn't you do this, but here something that we do, which is in the process and you know that it's not a thousand percent of us, but that payment depends on them, and if it wasn't, again, I tell you a thousand times, it's all within, there's no delay, there's no problem in the contracts, and you're in some way, fortunately, you're not in power, if you said something like that while you're in power, then you'd get angry. They'd get angry, they really shouldn't insult the people who are our friends, whoever it was, whether we're dealing with the Emirates, the Russians, the Germans, the Americans, however, these people are our sincere friends. I know you may not be comfortable with the fact that, at the time of this government's term, so many investments from the Emirates will be realised, but she had the opportunity and your government, don't drag me by the tongue. The former president of the state did not want to meet personally with the ruler of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Muhammad, because he said it was not his level. What's worse, some Joca Ratkovic told him – don't meet Sheikh Muhammad, he's not your level, he's not the president of the United Arab Emirates, please, he's just the ruler of one of the Emirates, Abu Dhabi. Abu Dhabi is the richest Emirate, funded by the whole of Dubai. He says it's not his level. They refused to meet these people, people wanted to come with us before. If you're asking why something hasn't been done in three months, what hasn't been done in five years? People wanted to do it with Serbia, and while your government was there, you wouldn't take them, the people who were your bosses, wouldn't take them. Now, when Mr. Vukic and I made a personal contact with Sheikh Muhammad, when based on that, could one of you assume that such a company like Etihat would ever come, even if it were to negotiate the takeover of JAT, which was in this depth years and decades ago, could anyone have expected it. Are you going to say that this is a bad thing when this month is announced, that this job is over? Come on, please. So, we have agreed with the Emirates not to say things until they're done, you deliberately provoke me, don't do that please, we'll have the opportunity, I'll come back here to the Assembly, we'll finish all this, don't be an evil one, be a constructive opposition, let's not use a word... (Marian Risticevic, from the city: See how he laughs. He's laughing, of course he's laughing when he knows I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20344	Minister, please. The word is Vladimir Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20345	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106 and 107, let's return this debate to those frameworks that resemble this National Assembly. I don't think anyone should be allowed to provoke anyone here. What is a general impression, which is quite clear, is that part of the MPs are definitely, simply, exulting over the problems in which Serbia is and cannot hide it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20346	Mr. Ilic, please don't replicate, just stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20347	I have to point out why we should go back and break dignity, so I'm telling you that's not the way. If anyone is looking forward to Serbia being bad, then he has a problem, not Serbia. So I ask you to go back to the discussion frameworks and discuss the amendments, which is our agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20348	Thank you. I agree with you, Mr. Ilic, but I will still give Mr. Veselinović a chance to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20349	The Honorable Chairman, I think neither, has anyone in this room heard that I said that Minister Dinkic is lying, although it is no secret. On the other hand, I point out once again that there is no indignation, that we were just looking for information. We've received further information that you've agreed with the Emirates to keep your mouth shut and that's part of the deal. It's possible that the elements of the deal are a secret, and that's okay. Just don't invite us to be friends with someone we don't have any basis for. Let's just say, I'm not any friend of anyone from Emirata. Our country can be in good business relations, it can be a country in good business relations, I don't know why I would be with someone from Emirat a friend, is it because they recognized Kosovo among the first? Is that why you and Mr. Wolfie are friends with them? Is that why you hang out with them? Did one dinar get into this country from them? What did they do for Serbian citizens to be friends with them, is that how friendships are made? Please, your personal relationships, keep them friendly, leave us alone, we're not collectively friends with anyone, and that you can make it a commitment to us. We will be friends for friends, for those people we think really have always been our friends and have had an understanding for Serbia and the Serbian people. Business doesn't create friendships, business creates business, you know it best, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20350	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20351	I can't help but ask you one question. Considering that neither of you personally nor anyone from your party nor closely asked questions to the previous owners of these failed combinations while they failed, no question, you were interested in what was going on or what was going on there. You know, where did those combinations come from in the first place that we were looking for a partner for them, because they were privatized by partial criminals, Saric, so the privatisation was broken. Did you ever ask, as they were led by such men, some of whom were criminals, which has been proven, because the warrants were issued, you didn't ask any questions, you didn't care at the time. Now you're asking, you're constantly doubting whether an agreement with the Emirates is such that it will be realised or not. Why didn't you ask the question when they collapsed and destroyed you combined, when a 30m-euro dubiose was made? Are you from Vojvodina, did you say a word against those owners who then ruined those combinations, or were you friends with them? I just can't resist asking you that. You kept your mouth shut when Mile Jerkovic was buying and when the Sharics were shopping. It's all broken up, destroyed your combineds and remained dubiosis. Who was hanging out with them? Don't give me moral lessons if you don't have a basis for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20352	Thank you. The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20353	I think we should go back to the other amendments. Mr Dinkic, against Saric and against criminals who have partially ruined those combinations, an investigation has been launched in the mandate of the previous government. As you know, Karic's assets in Vojvodina were seized, placed under state control. And against other criminal groups, an investigation has been launched, i.e. an increased fight against all kinds of organised crime. All kinds of crime since this government led the country is on the rise, from ordinary crime to organized crime, murders, etc. We were back in the '90s. Tabloid media has been fighting crime, and you've been complaining yourself in the last few days about how this fight is being fought and looking, with the right, to stop a particular campaign that was directed at your party. You were against it. Don't fight crime like that. He fights crime against independent institutions, independent prosecutors, judges, etc. You are not here to conduct an investigation, nor should you direct arrows from these benches to individual authorities of the executive or legislative authority and to individual parties. You should do everything possible to ensure that independent institutions, prosecutors and the court are doing their job and that all those responsible for privatisations have happened in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 or 2007 to be investigated until the end. At least, that is, in those privatisations, there are almost no members of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20354	Mr. Shain, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20355	Article 107. Ladies and gentlemen, these are really important topics we're talking about, because this is about corruption, but I don't see what this has to do with this amendment? Especially, what does it have to do with calling a country where we live a name that I can't even say, some animals, or telling someone to speak one way or another? I think it's inappropriate for the Assembly, inappropriate for the Rules of Procedure, and let's get back to the agenda. I ask you, the chairman, to channel the debate in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20356	I completely agree with you, Mr. Shane. The word is made by the MP Marjan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, part of it has already been said by Srdjan Shain. The amendment redistributes resources for gulf systems. Al Dahro has nothing to do with it. So, I welcome the organisation's 3% effort to join in supporting the construction of the bay systems in Serbia. I note that I am not a few supporters or Al Dahra programs, I had the right reserves. But the combinations made some minuses there, didn't make the country a minus, made the managements that were then installed. The only good thing about it is that they won't be making any more losses, the state will no longer bear the cost of it and will pay the rent. No one's ever paid for that before. About the bay systems, I'd like the minister to write something down. So let's see how the bay systems have been built so far. With that in mind, I support this amendment, but you, as finance minister, should know that you are in some way responsible for both the circuit budgets and the local budgets, for their dedicated spending, because you are in charge, or budgetary inspection. I tell you that the bay systems were built during the party 3% in the following way: 14 May 2012 – transfer to the company 19,728.000 for the gulf systems... (President: Mr. Risticevic, you've been given the word on the basis of the amendment and I ask you to talk about the amendment. I'm talking about the amendment. The amendment speaks of the figures invested in the gulf systems. So I'm talking about a specific number for the bay system. So 19,728,961 dinar to a company that doesn't have any land at all. Are you listening to me, Mr. Minister? So on May 14th, it was transferred from the province's Agricultural Development Fund for Gulf Systems 19,728,961 dinar to a company that has no land at all. The next day, 17,529,437 dinars were transferred to the company's owner, also for the gulf systems it does not have. With this in mind, and with regard to the group's effort to develop the gulf systems and around this amendment, to create funds, I ask you to check how so far the resources for the gulf systems have been spent and to inform this assembly, since they have since advocated that the resources for the gulf systems are increasing. I support that, but let's see how those funds have been spent so far. I claim it wasn't spent on purpose, that these bay systems are gone, that the company that received the funds for it has no land at all, that there's no water potential for that kind of gulf system and everything fell between the two rounds of the election. So it fell on May 14th and 15th last year. We know the first round was six and the second round was May 20th. The IRS has already determined that it's cash and I'm asking you to send a budget inspection. You're in charge of controlling the funds spent, so let's see how they spent those funds on cobayage gulf systems and kind of put them into money, and money in votes to verify the province's government. I've already said I'm going to support this amendment because it increases resources for the gulf systems. It's not some big 250 million, but since it's important to increase production, I believe that if the secretaries are used correctly, and not in the right way, and if we're not hypocrites, and we're not talking, and we're doing one thing, if we invest this money where the amendment's proposed, it's going to give some results in production. They won't be maximum, but they'll certainly be visible and that's why I said I would support this amendment. That's why, not because of Al Dahra, not because I don't know what, I'm going to support this amendment, decided that every amendment that leads to agricultural promotion I support, even though I said I had some reserves of Al Dahra. I claim that our country should sell to our peasants for 20-30 years and use it as a war to raise one loan where we will finally solve agricultural primary production and reprocessing industry to a much higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20358	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20359	If this is true, this is not a matter for the Budgetal Inspectorate, but you need to file a criminal report, because if that's true, it's above the domain of the Budgetal Inspectorate. If you have such knowledge, the only thing you need to do is file a criminal report. It's for some other organs, not the Budgetal Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20360	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20361	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that's Articles 106 and 107. Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. We had one drastic deviation from this point of the Rules of Procedure here. On the other hand, I also advertise the violation of Rule 107, which says the speaker at the Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think it's inappropriate, talking to anyone in the 3% group. I could answer that. It's 15% of the group. Not 15% that they make in the election, but that they take for themselves. Or, I could say, from a group of stamps or from a group of forgers, but it is not appropriate to this high house, so I would ask you to conduct the debate in the context of respect for business provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20362	Thank you. I ask all Members of the people to keep an eye on the dignity of the National Assembly in their presentations. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Marko Jaksic and Donka Banovic submitted together to the sixth paragraph of the 3rd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Samardzic, to article 6th of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20363	Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to a member of the budget, where the government has been very broad-handed in this time of unemployment and changes in budgets. In fact, the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs for this year stands out 92 million and 800,000 dinars, three times higher, 300% higher than the money allocated for the work of this office last year, in 2012, 33 million and 800,000 dinars. When you look at this number of 92 million, you simply don't know if it's much or small, because it doesn't know what that office is doing at first sight, even though I'm going to say something about it. The problem is, in fact, the relationship. We talked about this irrigation issue for a little while about a 50% reduction, so the government plans 250 million. Now, compare 250 million for irrigation and 92 million for an office that does professional and operational jobs and which, in fact, only assists negotiators etc. on this issue, first those Bork agreements, then this one agreement called the First Agreement, and then the plan to implement the agreement. Apparently, the majority of these funds refer to services under contract. We have here suggested that out of 55 million, as planned for this year only for services under contract within the entire work of the office, it is down to 15 million, and that the rest of the money be made to transfers to the municipalities of KIM. Namely, paying this office is expensive and political and material, because it is both political and material damage to this office. If she was paying one dollar, it would be a huge material damage to what she's doing. I will only mention her great result, which she achieved, that those agreements reached by Borko Stefanovic with Cooper, which were purely unidentified by the flying object, therefore, some non-papris. They were, in fact, just by professional action of this office transformed into government regulations on the implementation of these agreements. These regulations are in Serbia's Constitutional Court today. Serbia's constitutional court dares not appreciate their constitutionality and legality, because it has political pressure from the government. But it's all actually cooked and started in an office like this. You have to keep that in mind, but you're asking a question and it's purely material -- why all this money? You have simply in the law a single item that provides for three million and 680 thousand to travel across the country, so that those copies of the catastras that we are obliged to give for Kosovo are better done, so something travels around the country for that reason or over 11 million dinars for travel abroad members of this office. It's really huge money in itself, and especially given what it's doing, which can be a political part of the question, and you don't have to agree with it, but 300% of the increase is something that's really big and it's not a small sum, so to say that 300% is relatively small compared to the absolute amount, but it's a very large sum, so, of 92 million, which if we compare only to this irrigation we talked about in an hour and a half, it's only one-third. Therefore, we ask that the problem be solved precisely by returning to the 2012 budget and transferring the rest of the planned funds to municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20364	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6th of the amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 6, paragraph 3 with the correction was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government didn't accept the amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20365	Dear ladies and gentlemen, a few things are very important for this amendment. First, the thing about formal law. I have to explain now how certain things happened. When I submitted an amendment in the original sense it was in part 4.8.1. and I tried the Office of Human and Minority Rights to explain that it was an organization, therefore, an organisation such as the Red Cross, an international organisation, has the status of an international NGO. But then I received information from experts from the Office of Human and Minority Rights -- to be transparent, develop by classification, to know exactly what is for costs, what is for travel, what is for spaces, etc. Then I listened to them, thinking that experts, since they've been working for at least seven, eight years in that institution, and people are in charge of it, thinking it's one of the segments of the Office for Human and Minority Rights of the previous governments that works, that it's not the same as the part that's meant only for Roma integration. Then I do it. But then the Legislative Committee says it's not good and confirms what I told the lady in the Human and Minority Rights Office that this is not the working body of the government and that as the government's working body it does not need to finance, as they represent. By the way, to make the matter even more complete, we get in terms of the government, which the office probably wrote again, that this is not sustainable. Now I don't know if it's sustainable that they don't know, whether it's not sustainable that there's political will from the Roma Integration Council, who said it's also funded by the Finance Committee that supported it. What's not sustainable about it now? Or is it sustainable that they don't know, so yesterday they thought they should, and today they realize they've made a mistake, so tomorrow when we ask a question -- what are these government personnel who have been going there for years, then the question is, where's the problem? Well, the problem is that people give wrong instructions. To make it right, I'm going to make amends today. I'm going to return it to 4.8.1 as it was, and solve this issue of formal law, so we don't get into it. Now, let me cut to the chase. As a matter of fact, it's really not my fault, and neither are you from the Ministry of Finance, which the Office of Human and Minority Rights last year didn't spend 20 million, when I was here criticising that the director was incompetent, so finally after that he was replaced and now, in the light of the amendment, we had to share the 20 million we shared last year to pay this year. It's not the responsibility of this Assembly or the Minister of Finance, it's the responsibility of this office and the incompetent people who are still sitting there. The second thing, is Dekad Roma going to be threatened with this amendment? I don't know since they started worrying about it, probably because they shared that 20 million-million-dollar contest with election organisations, which deal with all sorts of things, so by the way, they say, we're going to be dealing with the Roma issue. These are organizations that have helped some political options. Let's bury it, see what NGOs got, and all of us MPs will know who's funding from these sources. I ask the question – is it more important for us to continue to finance political friends in the NGO sector in that classification, or should we respect the position of 30 NGOs founded by Roma and who said that the distribution of funds was criminal? With my amendment, we've only tried to alter the structure of these funds. Why is this important to Serbia? Why does it matter to the Roma? Why is this important for our path to the EU? We cannot at the capacity of any non-governmental organisation financed by this institution to sit with any EU commissioner, not with any deputy director of the EU, nor to use Budapest Development Centres, which concern these projects, but in the capacity of the Roma Interparliamentary Organisation, we have only done so in two months. We managed to launch talks at the Education Directorate, say Budapest, which is in the EU, using its capacities, exactly, ministers, what you said, to make projects, because we don't have projects, that these projects can finance certain things. Now I'm asking-- who's the one who wants to stop that road, so instead of that kind of thing, use the means to fund some of his organizations that he may have politically committed to? That let them argue with them themselves. What's the point of all this? That we in the Government of the Republic of Serbia need to establish tools that will lead to the use of funds from general funds and the integration of Roma in the Ministry of Economy, and so far we do not have projects. That's exactly what you told people about -- we'll give money, but there's no project. Another thing, to strengthen the community that can equally perform in seeking these projects with everyone else. This amendment creates that last tool in sequence. We financed in the Ministry of Urbanism part of the funds to do projects and to prepare projects for infrastructure issues and for housing. I have to say to all MPs, and I have to say, not for housing, not in such a way as to give someone an apartment, but we've been having talks with the World Bank to finance from special funds with only 1.5% interest, housing for socially endangered, where people will get and hire, whether through greenhouses and plastics, where, again, there are special stimulants from international financial organisations, but that these people are paying off their housing units. So, not to give 50 apartments, but to build 1,000 apartments, to start the construction industry in Serbia, to get people on the basis of what they have, to get a housing unit, like a social apartment, that gets jobs through greenhouses and plastics. International financial organisations want to borrow it under special conditions, much more favourable than what we have today, and then, in this way, these people pay off their housing units in the long term, because they're doing it, and so this whole project is going to be a thing that will reduce the ethical distance, not a thing that will give them the opportunity, as we promised them for 10 years -- you'll get free apartments, so we'll move them out of Gazela, and then we'll buy them even free containers, and then we'll move those containers to the woods and then we'll ask ourselves what we're doing. Then someone comes to us and says, "Well, what you're doing is terrible." So, I'm asking the Minister for an answer and let's see what we can do. There's one possibility that I can legally edit that amendment, and I've already arranged it, and then respect it that way. Unless, of course, we can agree on a possible budget reserve, to make a deal in the next few months. It is a total of four million in the Office for Human and Minority Rights and it is 2.5 million. At the Council of Government meeting yesterday, we found that it should be done, to separate 2.5 million of the Ministry of Culture for Museum-Gallery Activities and to answer that question that I ask everyone if there is such a museum in Belgrade? Yes, there is such a museum in Belgrade. Does this museum have exhibits in Belgrade? Yes, that museum has exhibits in Belgrade. Is that one of the best museums in the Balkans? Yes, it is, because there are no other species like that. Can we support that museum with 2.5 million dinars? I think you should. So, we have two options, that today the Assembly and you ministers are the victims of certain administrative workers, because at the board's session, when the proposal was adopted, you were witnesses, the Deputy Director of the Office says it's okay and accepts it. The director of the office is on vacation, and let the clerk tell you that she doesn't give consent to this. Now I ask – who is more important, an officer who communicates with officials at the Ministry of Finance or a deputy director who says that's okay at the board meeting? So I really don't know how we work. I accept and once again ask the Minister for help in this regard, that technically this amendment may need to be prepared and that I really ask you for this technical assistance if something needs to be done, or, if you as Minister of Finance say that we can deal with this issue together with you through budget reserves in the next month to two days. But we really need to come up with some solutions together. I can't understand that in Serbia and in that budget we're asking a question of 6.5 million, and some people have spent before, not telling you that in one ministry, I apologize for speaking for so long, a picture book dealing with Roma integration cost several hundred thousand euros. A couple hundred thousand euros is 10 times what is required here. This is just about, once again, that this community can, that your ministry, the Ministry of Economy, that the Ministry of Environment, that the Ministry of Education, put on a hundred projects and all of us can say -- we don't have the capacity in the government to do that. We will, we have political will, we had it five years ago, we had it six years ago, we have it today, but there are no projects. I'm sorry, but for me, the answer to this question is whether we sincerely want to create tools, to honestly get projects on the table, and to support those projects honestly. Minister, if we don't have these tools, we'll get into a situation, as you said about cultural institutions -- I will, but give me a project, there's no one to do it. Do you think this project can be built by the Office of Human and Minority Rights, where there are five employees in the Roma Integration Department who don't know how to write one rulebook? The same five people did not know that they were writing a call for a session of the Council for Human and Minority Rights. The same people had to work, get mentors from the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, to do the elemental things that require them to systematize jobs. I don't want to be maligned now and get into this situation, as well as who these people are, where they came from and how they came from, but we have a serious question - or we want to make the government effective and overcome these problems, so that we can make a quality opening of both Chapter 22 and Chapter 23. Otherwise, I think we're really going to have one serious problem and then we're all going to see together what it's going to lead to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20366	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20367	We will help you to make a technical correction to this amendment, but I ask you that the next time the prime minister is in parliament, you ask him all these questions. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance has a role to play in making a budget for the entire state, but this kind of detail needs to be known by the Director of the Office for Human and Minority Rights. If he doesn't give you such answers, I ask you to ask the Prime Minister about everything you've just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20368	The word has Srdjan Shain, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20369	For the sake of truth, I have to and about relationships to really say that as far as your ministers are concerned, we've had these kind of interventions several times, and we've always come across your well-meaning. Together with your associates, we did all this, and in a proper way they helped formulate it. I have said several times in my presentation that this really has nothing to do with the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, that we had a truly reliable associate here, as well as reliable associates and in some other ministries. Simply, the Office of Human and Minority Rights is a problem. Last time I wrote a letter to the Prime Minister. The director was removed and a new director arrived. Apparently, there are some serious problems in that office. I'm going to do what you said at the moment to write a report about it. I think it's part of our shared responsibility. I now consider your answer to all those who are malicious and who say there is no responsibility in this government, no dialogue, no agreement. That is not so and we can really say what we think and that we can find the best possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20370	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20371	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will support my colleague, Shane. He is not asking for additional funds, as I understand it, but is asking for redistribution within the Office for Human and Minority Rights. He's looking for a part of the Roma organization in a certain way. Since he's not asking for any extra funds, and we're all mostly discussing how to spend money, if we discussed so much how to make that money, I think this country would be far better off and we'd be on our way. However, when it comes to budget redistribution, everyone is looking for their own, including Srdjan Shane. In this I support him, since he's not asking for any extra funds. Let's say last year, instead of money for the Decade of Roma, they went from this Office of Human and Minority Rights to CESID. I don't have the impression that CESID is some kind of Roma organization, but mostly money intended for Roma ended up in a strange way during the government's three percent regime in CESID, which deals with polling and probably election results, etc. I don't think that this organization is some kind of Roma organization and that it shouldn't have gotten money for Decada Roma, unless I'm wrong. If there is no money, I suggest that the government stop funding Krcun's hole in the village of Bela Reka, which has been financed since 1957, which is for nothing, where a dozen guards are being reduced, where they travel and spend their fuel every day. They've got their own pump, they've got their own equipment. Anyway, it doesn't serve anything. A long time ago, we gave up that socialism, we gave up some important shelters, and we can give up shelters in the White River and spend that money in the Office of Human and Minority Rights without spending it on some useless means, for an atomic blow that will eventually happen and which was projected 40, 50 years ago. And today these shelters, these holes, are maintained without any function in the future. Minister, you better take the money from there, for that kind of variety of shelters, which have lost every purpose, and transfer it to, say, the Minority Rights Office and satisfy all national minorities, all groups of their organization. It's fairer than dealing with some jobs that have nothing to do with real life, like living under a glass bell, and it's as if we're not concerned with what people see for days that we're guarding, some hole that Krcun still built in 1957. - No, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20372	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20373	I am really sorry that Roma, or Roma organisations, have been denied their budget to implement their programmes. Mr. Shane, you are sitting in a coalition that supports this government, which, apparently, has no hearing about Roma organizations and Roma issues. I don't think there's enough funds for the Decade of Roma, and the previous issue wasn't about the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, but it all happened during this government. However, in order to get an answer to this and all MPs to other questions, it would really be necessary for the prime minister to sit here. It is not good for the finance minister to tell lawmakers to ask the prime minister the day the budget rebalance is discussed, the most important act that the Assembly can bring after the constitution, as it concerns state financing. So, for three days now, we are already discussing the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the accompanying laws, and here there is no first Prime Minister, Mr Dacic. I think his place is here. I understand that it is not easy for Minister Dinkic to answer a number of questions. Some probably can't answer or don't know, and the other won't, because it's probably the job of the Prime Minister or the first vice president. Mr. Dinkich, why isn't Mr. Dacic here today? Is there more important work than redistributing funds concerning health insurance, educators, local self-government, pensioners, farmers, etc.? What is it that prevents Mr. Dacic from sitting in these benches today?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20374	National MP Srdjan Shin, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20375	Just to get along well. I have no problem communicating with Vucica or Dacic or Mr Dinkic. And if the problem were of this kind and the problem was within the ruling majority, it would probably not have been voted at the session of the Finance Committee to accept the amendment, and it would probably not have been the good will of the minister to arrange the amendment and to accept it at the end of the parliamentary majority. However, we have a serious problem in the depths of the government. We have a problem in the depths of the government, because while Mr. Vukic must deal with issues such as fighting corruption, we, other coalition partners, are dealing with some other issues. Probably because I am the president of the Roma Party, so I should worry about that and then when you enter into the depths of the government to solve one particular problem regardless of what you agree with the people who make up the government, but not using their authority to call and say it – you have to do it, then you encounter a large number of employees who, for various reasons, want to mine all of it. I didn't mean to, and it's not the right place now to have these officers do it in one way or another, to find motives why they do it. However, this is not a weakness of coalition partners. This is not a weakness of coalition capacity. This is an indication that we've brought down the state. I'm not telling you, we're all together. I take part of the responsibility, although we were the least involved in any government. You can't honor the Roma Party that in 1993, we were in 2000 and we weren't in government or in 2007 when we supported the government. It is also a responsibility to us because we did some things and sold our votes for one package. What's this indicator? That the state was destroyed and that we all have to work together to build a state. We're just trying to make a contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20376	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 6th Division 3, 11, 12, 13, 14, 24 and 27 amendments to the correction were submitted jointly by MPs Judita Popović, Natasa Micicic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20377	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the LDP and this amendment, as well as the previous to Article 1, wants to show priorities in function, thus financing individual institutions that these governments and priorities would insist on us as a party that we are part of this government. We have foreseen this amendment that the funds allocated to the Office for Rapid Answers, a whole, part of the funds for the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and the Office for Co-operation with Churches and Religious Communities, are transferred and distributed to the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture, the Trustee for Equality of the DRI. What is fundamental is why we are asking that all the funds that are intended to finance the Office for Rapid Answers be redistributed, because we in the LDP well remember what was the pre-election programme of individual members of the ruling coalition and, among other things, their coalition agreement, which is a reduction in the number of state agencies. We have come into a situation that a year since the formation of this government, the number of agencies has not been reduced, but that through various offices the number of these state bodies has been increased. The second reason is that we in the LDP absolutely don't know what this office means for quick answers, which are her responsibilities. One document says that the Office for Rapid Response, as a special service of the Government, sets out the office's competence to carry out professional, operational and administrative tasks for the needs of the Government and the tasks common to the ministries and special organisations, which relate to attracting foreign investment, raising efficiency in the implementation of projects for the Republic of Serbia, as well as the efficiency of the work of all authorities of the state administration, special organisations and institutions involved in the process of exercising the right to build and other works. Mr. Minister, you must admit that there are already state authorities who have these powers. On the other hand, last week, Mr. Jankovic, here in the Assembly, said that he, as the Protector of Citizens, absolutely did not give an opinion on the need to set up one of these offices, because it is, among other things, in the description of his work. Then why give funds to one such institution? What will be the results of that office? Can we be sure that the process of granting building permits will be accelerated if we continue to have the same Law on Planning and Construction? I think we're doing it backwards. Instead of changing the first Law on Planning and Construction, we are making some new offices that are obviously just the pre-election project of a party from the ruling coalition. You, Mr. Minister, said in principle that at the beginning of your term you were not a strict finance minister and that in the coming period you would start to behave more strictly and I can accept it. But I'm asking you to start with the Serbian government first. Do you know, Mr. Minister, how much it costs not to implement the Law on Public Enterprises of the Citizens of Serbia? A minimum of 60 million dinars per year. Thirty-five public enterprises, the founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, also have boards of directors and supervisors, which are contrary to the Law on Public Enterprises. Why didn't you just appoint new supervisory committees that have five members? Only in the difference between receiving current board members and the new law of members, future supervisory boards, can Serbia save 60 million dinars. How can you ask any taxpayer to pay his tax obligations regularly when the Serbian government does not respect the law that this assembly has passed? It costs us 230 pensioners a year to receive an average pension of 23,000 dinars. That's how much your haughtiness costs, I don't mean Mr. Minister to you personally, but the haughtiness of the ruling coalition. The implementation of one law is not the implementation of the law by a single minister, but rather, it should be an action of the entire government. Secondly, when we talk about subsidies to public undertakings, all public undertakings receiving direct and indirect subsidies were obliged to make, deliver and publish a programme of spending these subsidies and a rationalisation plan for the next period. What public enterprise, whose founder of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did this? Today we have a budget rebalance of 13 billion for the railway. Did they do it? Serbia's roads, Resavica, Serbia's? Which of these public enterprises has done this structure of spending subsidies and a rationalisation plan? These basic principles show the efficiency and ineffectiveness of a government. If the government does not respect the law, if the government has no opportunity to force the directors of public enterprises to respect the law, administrative, supervisory committees, how can we expect citizens or someone from the international community to trust in the efficiency of fulfilling what the Serbian Government says? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20378	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I apologize for the delay. The amendments were submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic to Sections 3 and 15. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I've been looking forward to you coming to listen to what I'm about to say, and I guess you won't be able to hear it. So, this amendment made me feel that it was necessary to remove funds from the Office for Quick Answers in the total amount of 30,505,000 and to transfer all those funds to the Emergency Budget Fund. The government established the office for quick answers and defined 30,000,000. I, too, as well as my colleague Kenan, who spoke about the jurisdiction of this office, managed to get that it should raise the efficiency of the work of all the authorities of the state administration. My point of view is that actually the State Administration has to be effective on its own, not to form a new office that will allow it. I have to remind you of October 2012 when you and I, too, from that part of the O.R., talked about it, when you abolished the budget fund, actually the Environmental Protection Fund, when you abolished three agencies from the field of environmental protection. That's when you told me, as a reason to put an end to all this, other than the thieving one, that the reason was a terrible saving. In the meantime, you haven't lifted any more agencies, there are 130 left, even though they were one of your promises. A hundred and thirty agencies are working today, except for those who worked in the environment, they don't work. That's why we have a problem, too, and right now it's being watched, by your colleagues in the government, how to overcome that problem. On the one hand, you shut down some institutions that existed, which were doing some work and were founded under the law, and now you're explaining to me that you're forming a new institution, an office that you define 30,000,000 as soon as it was established and you think it's for the purpose of saving. On the other hand, the Emergency Sector had little resources in the budget as well. The rebalances were taken off at 380,000,000. Accidents like these these days in India, Nis, Turkey, Paracino, Jagodina, have left a huge material wasteland, it has been devastated, only when it comes to agricultural cultures, more than 8.5,000 hectares. Not to mention the material costs of damaged objects, that I'm not talking about people being killed. There's a huge amount of material damage behind all of this. What's the reason for all this? Lack of anti-urban missiles. It takes Serbia 15,000 rockets a year, that's 350,000 a year. So you define 380,000,000, it's about to buy those anti-urban missiles, if that's your idea, and you put 30,000,000 into preventing the country from being protected from fires and doing something when the fires show up, about floods and floods. So, right now in Serbia, there are 1,608 anti-urban stations, according to the law that we've passed here and who certainly know your police minister, or the prime minister covering this area, that there should be a minimum of 15 missiles in each place. There are three of them in Serbia right now. So you have 204 of those anti-city sites that don't have any missiles. That's why there's damage. I don't want to talk about how old the system is. This is a completely outdated system, but some more modern systems, such as cloud radiation, such as anti-urban networks, can be adopted, but they cost money. I must remind you of last hot summer and the damage caused by the fire. Do you remember those damages? How much are they? What are the damages from the floods and the floods from last spring? Every penny invested in the prevention of this sector is paid 10 times. I must ask you, because you are a rational man, to accept the amendment, to ask the State Administration to work effectively, to respond quickly and to contribute to all this because they have jurisdiction, and to pay this money where it can help Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20381	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20382	I'd like to begin by apologizing to all the MPs for being late for the start of this session, in this pause I had some meetings about the work I'm doing, but to answer this question of yours. I'm sorry, everybody. I'm trying to get to the sessions on time. For a little while longer, this break, as far as I'm concerned, you've been waiting, I apologize to everyone. As far as this question is concerned, I did not, as finance minister, interfere with the structure of my fellow ministers' expenditures. The interior ministry has only set priorities in its budget and the incentive is that, among other things, they have given up the pre-planned procurement of fire trucks and transferred it for next year, for example, or probably for other things. I'm not the prime minister, I'm still the finance minister. It is mine to make sure that the global budget is sustainable, that the deficit is primarily sustainable, that we have enough money for key budget expenditures such as regular pension payments, salaries to teachers, doctors, that children's allowances and social protection are regularly paid, that the state regularly settles its obligations to trustees, in order to be credible. As far as the investment structure is concerned, every ministry, in accordance with budget possibilities, has just set priorities and then it would not be responsible for me, as finance minister, to take responsibility for my fellow ministers. I understand, of course, that it is necessary to invest in prevention and to prevent the adverse consequences of the emergency situations that are happening. Elemental disasters are something that people can't influence and better prevent than treat, but now the situation has been such that every minister has set his priorities, including those you've talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20383	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm so glad I got this answer, Mr. Minister, and that you gave it to me completely honest. Should this mean, if I understand correctly, that Minister of the Interior, Prime Minister Dacic, has determined that Serbia is not the priority of getting fire trucks and anti-urban missiles? This should then mean that citizens, who have damage to all of this, only address one minister who considered this unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20385	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20386	I wouldn't say that. First of all, I'm not sure if the anti-urban missiles are in charge here, I know it used to be a hydrometeorological facility, but if you know it, it might be. As for fire trucks, you know for a fact that certain fire trucks were purchased during the previous period. When you do not have enough new vehicles, the existing vehicles must be used until budget options are created to buy new vehicles. So giving up buying new vehicles doesn't mean the readiness of fire crews will be less. We'd have easier working conditions, that's where we can agree, with new vehicles compared to existing vehicles. As far as anti-urban missiles are concerned, I don't think this is about what amounts they can't even use the current budget for such purchase. If those who are directly involved in this activity first report to the Police Minister, through the Emergency Sector, that they have no supplies of missiles, and I have not received such information, then I am not given such information, these things are determined by the funds of the current budget reserve. And I have to say the next thing -- I don't believe that anti-urban rockets are being bought during the summer. So if they were bought, at least that's how it makes sense to me, they had to be bought before this rebalance. I'm talking about anti-urban missiles. If they're not there, why aren't they bought in time? They're not going to buy during the flight of the anti-urban rocket for the summer. They should buy in winter or spring and wait for summer when they are used. The other thing is fire trucks. There, indeed, was not able to be obtained in a short period of time due to respect for all procedures of the Public Procurement Act. But it's something that it takes, but without which it can last half a year, it can be delayed for half a year. For anti-urban missiles, I absolutely agree that they are necessary and that they must exist. If there is no money for them now and someone is talking to me today – give me money for the anti-urban missiles, so as long as they get it, it's a question, because we don't need anti-urban missiles in November. So I don't know that condition. No one's ever addressed the finance ministry with a request to say there were no anti-citizen missiles. I think we should definitely see that, and we should get a response from the authorities about what's going on with the anti-urban missiles, and you as a MP, and I as a finance minister, as well as the citizens of Serbia, but budget rebalancing certainly can't be the cause of a potential shortage of anti-building missiles, because the budget could be used until now for their purchase, and now it's the beginning of July, that, as I would say to the people's dictionaries, pigs don't grow on the eve of Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20387	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20388	I'm afraid, Mr. Minister, that the pig is very fat on the eve of Christmas, when it comes to this government. Now let me tell you a little bit, because I've already asked this question to the prime minister, or to Minister Dacic, because his jurisdiction is this portfolio. Serbia needs 15,000 rockets a year, which is 350,000. Someone who decided what the priorities were in his ministry didn't decide that 15,000 rockets were needed, so he ordered 8,600. So, unlike 6,400 rockets, farmers pay today for destroying their fields, paying their citizens because their cars and their houses were destroyed, and they were physically injured. Someone needs to answer who it is who brings priorities. Now I see, and I'm telling you this because all the media is publishing it, because that's the main problem, that there are no supply missiles. You've got 444 places in the city that don't have a single rocket. When it's stormy, believe they're moving their rockets from one place to another. That's why there's damage. What I see now is that it's being transferred to local self-government that they themselves participate in the purchase of such anti-building missiles. These local self-governments can't handle it. The problem stays and the problem will be. Of course these funds won't buy rockets for next month, August or July which is today, but it's a question of what we're going to do. Who's the one setting priorities? I'd love to, if I get an answer, because I asked for an answer to this question, and I didn't get it, to send you that answer one day, and I'm sure it's very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20389	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20390	I can tell you this. I've checked through the associate now, and we haven't had a single request since the beginning of this year to use the current budget reserve for the possible purchase of anti-urban missiles. We as the Ministry of Finance if we don't get a request that such a need exists, we can't even know. Not just when it comes to rockets. I can understand that someone is asking us – we need it for it, so we say – we don't or don't give because there's no money, but there's never a request here. So I really don't know what the situation is. I repeat again, the complete budget of the Emergency Sector was available until the end of June at the amount it was, so there was enough space to obtain the required number of anti-urban missiles in time. It wouldn't be fair if someone were to transfer responsibility to the police and prime minister now and then, if I hadn't done enough to prepare it for the defense. I know we can talk about some objective responsibility, but I just want to say what I mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20391	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20392	There is a lot of talk here about objective responsibilities for many ministers, but obviously, if it is not the finance minister, if it is not the interior minister's fault, then it is the head of the sector, Predrag Maric, who says other things in the media. It's someone's fault for the damage it's caused.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20393	Thank you. Members of the 6th Division 3, 23, 27, 32 and 42 amendments to the correction, since 2 July 2013, have been submitted jointly by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of Sections 3 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Souls of Morchev. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20394	Thank you. We asked this amendment to identify funds for the financing of the Alliance Library of the Blind for Publishing and Librarian Work. We talked about it the other day here when they were representatives of the Protectors of the Citizens and the Agency for Gender Equality, i.e. the Commissioner for Gender Equality. We think it is essential that this library of the Alliance of the Blind works, because Serbia is the only country that does not have this sound book, and they cannot live without it, they cannot function, it is their window into the world. Ten million dinars is such a tiny item. Today, many colleagues have shown you, warned that at least ten million dinars can be saved and transferred from any item for this Alliance of the Blind and their library. Don't let anything stop us from helping these people who are actually a marginalized group. If we're talking about gender equality, if we're talking about discrimination and we have all these laws, let's do something concrete for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20395	Thank you. The amendments were submitted by MP Jovan Palalic to Sections 3 and 27. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20396	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my colleague Sanda Raskovic Ivić spoke today about the funds needed for the National Museum. It was very interesting to hear the debate or the reasons why these funds were not available. The explanation we heard was simply about the fact that someone didn't want to, someone didn't have projects, someone didn't have the will to finish the job. However, I must read the explanation why this amendment is being rejected, which I have received. That's not what you're talking about in this answer. Something else is said, that this amendment is rejected, i.e. no funds are identified, no amendment is adopted in order to identify the resources for the National Museum because it is necessary to target these funds in order not to endanger the construction of the administrative crossing of the Depce, i.e. Integrated border management with Kosovo and Metohija. It is very interesting what explanation has been given for the rejection of this amendment for one project which was decided by the government two or three months ago, and we all know in what circumstances a decision has been made to do this thing, to effectively set the border with KIM. The funds were identified, and there was no will, there was not enough hearing to solve this important national problem. We are really facing the question of what our priorities really are. Is the priority integrated border management with KiM or things of national importance? We're kind of keeping quiet or ignoring everything that's important this year. These are important jubilee, 900 years from the birth of Stefan Nemanje, of the great writers, Peter Petrovic Nejgos, Milos Crnjanski, problems that are in the institutions of culture. We deafen ourselves to these things and direct the resources that break our country. Please, if we are already talking about such an important topic, that we are getting really too many answers, and that simply something that is really priorities that we point out, we are fighting for our culture, as the last defense of the nation, and not doing everything to meet the pressures and demands of other countries, such as this, to urgently establish, as it is said, the pay for the administrative crossing of children. Whether the salary of an administrative crossing of children is more important than a national institution, I leave it to the citizens to assess it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20397	On Article 6 of Sections 3 and 29 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20398	Thank you. Under this amendment, in front of the DSS, I have proposed that the funds that have been allocated to the Office for Media Cooperation have been determined by the Directorate for Gender Equality. In fact, the Office for Media Cooperation, for Travel Cost, you can imagine, there are 5,745,000 dinars defined, which wouldn't be very scary, I wouldn't pay attention, if it wasn't in the original budget, so in the 2013 Budget proposal, there were 300,000 dinars. So 19 times more funds they now need to use for the cost of official travel. That's more than he's using the diaspora office. I don't know why or where these people are traveling. I think it's much more logical, more meaningful to define these means of birth equality management, in a work called – Services by contract. That's the amount of some 5,445,000 dinars. Why? To improve, for example. their co-operation with local gender equality councils, i.e. so that through various competitions, management can identify funds for local advice on gender equality, primarily for improving women's reproductive health and also for improving women's entrepreneurship, especially in rural areas. That way, we'll help those women. So first, we're going to strengthen their economic power through these projects where they're going to be strengthened, they're going to strengthen their capacities, and they're going to be able to develop this kind of entrepreneurship that they're dealing with. After that, and certainly the economic power of their families will be much better, the standard itself will be increased in that village, in the entire municipality, etc. So we're going to cut back on some side of imposing local self-government, so, social giving, help, etc. If I were the finance minister myself, I'd rather define myself as women entrepreneurs, to define some of their assets than pay some official travels there.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20399	Thank you. National MP Petar Petkovic submitted to Sections 3 and 31 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20400	The Democratic Party of Serbia has been urging the amendment to increase the amount of 98m for Serbian organisations and associations within the Diaspora and Serbs' Office for Co-operation in the region by 40m. We also asked for this increase when we were bringing the 2013 budget. Then there's a figure of 110 million. However, we now have an additional reduction of 12 million dinars. Do you know what this money means for special Serbs in the region and for all those organisations where Serbs gather? These are the places where they join together to preserve and defend their human, above all, rights, the place where scholarships are awarded, the printing of various Serbian texts, etc. First of all, this is about a state's total carelessness, when it comes to especially Serbs in the region. They're threatened by human rights. The picture of the state of human rights of Serbs in the region best shows yesterday's prison sentence to Archbishop John in Macedonia, where the Serbian government did not find a similar sentence yesterday to appear, and it is indeed a fundamental human right, and above all the right to religion. Even Freedom House, in its annual report, condemned the behaviour of Macedonian authorities for human rights in Macedonia when it comes to jeopardising the human rights of religious dignitaries. Nothing is better in Croatia, where the existence of Serbs, where history is changing, is being suppressed. Nothing is better when it comes to Serbs in BiH. There is a constant pressure on Serbs in Republika Srpska, towards unitaryisation of BiH. There is nothing better in Montenegro, where there is a persecution of the clergy and monasticity of the Mytropolis of the Montenegrin-Primordial. It's not just about those 12 million dinars, it's about first of all one signal and a relationship that the state must have when it comes to protecting the rights of its people, not only in the region, but also in the diaspora. There's an assimilation at every step. We must do something to help our people who are literally left to the mercy and mercy of those countries in which they live. Do you know, Minister, that about two million Serbs live in the region alone? It is not a small figure that we simply behave like this and do not worry at all about the human rights of the Serbs, and it is about living in the 21st century, not living in some period as it was under the Turks, where the Serbs were simply threatened in the worst way, and are now being threatened again. The Serbian government must raise its voice and stand up for defence both when it comes to Serbs and when it comes to their human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20401	On Article 6th, the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At section 6, sections 15, 16 and 25 of the amendments, with correction, were submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20402	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would not repeat much of what previous colleagues used to say about environmental protection. We have an emergency budget fund here. In the 21st century, we are still looking into the sky, and we are not preparing for the climate change that is happening. In a normal world, it's been followed for 15 years or more than that. We suggest here, given that droughts are as dangerous as floods, since emergency situations and fires are just as dangerous as the city, that it's a little bit of thinking about who they're going to do and where and what they're going to do. First of all, the question is, who will be working next year for ten years, and who will live in this country at all, if we continue to treat the environment and the health of the citizens? We also suggest that in the framework of the early detection and prevention programme of type 2 diabetes at the primary level with millions of dinars, I don't know what can be done in such a vicious and serious disease with millions of dinars, to increase to 51 million, to increase from health care to people with rare diseases from 130 million to 249 million and to increase support the implementation of the national oncology health programme by five million, indeed devastatingly sounding this figure, to 255 million. We suggest that the financing of foreign investment agencies temporarily cease, because what do we need foreign investment if in ten years, there will be half a million citizens and citizens less in this country? Who will invest in this country and who will work in this country, when people who are diabetic, from cancer, addicts from tobacco are no longer able to work and help this Serbia. Please, part of the time just to add. We have in this part of the Emergency Budget Fund, we are still talking about Pharaoh's irrigation systems. Gentlemen of the government, this is the 21st century, there are innovations, there are technological achievements, there are solutions that are recognized and famous in the world. In the 21st century, it is not seen in the sky, but thought of a way to accelerate the growth of grain, to accelerate the growth of corn. Mobile irrigation pumps are the only solution, mobile solar power pumps are the only solution, not to do megalomanic and Pharaohic projects that will eventually remain monuments of Serbian nonsense or civil nonsense, depending on how we view this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20403	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20404	Dear Chairman, I support my colleague's amendment, and I have only come to say a few things about the topic that has been very current lately in Serbia, and these are children who suffer from rare diseases. They were mentioned by a colleague, and I'm going to talk to you about something extra in my amendment later. The problem is that the state thinks it's starting to treat children with rare diseases, and I'm going to tell you that the state only treats 10 of our small citizens, 10 children who suffer from rare diseases. There are currently half a million Serbian citizens suffering from rare diseases, with a high percentage of children. As far as the most endangered children are concerned, ten are covered in therapy, and ten are still untreated. That is why it is necessary, counterpart Karic said, to increase this fund for rare diseases. With my amendment, which you refused and which I will talk about later, I have asked for the complete coverage of children for treatment of rare diseases, but to be the subject of all children, not just these ten, that all children be covered and that all patients who suffer from rare diseases be covered. The Association of Parents of Children with Rare Diseases on Twitter is called "Invisible People". That's the name they gave because the state doesn't see them. Let us, as a parliament, make these "invisible people", and their sufferings, visible and humanely address these life problems, their children's problems, and their children's constitutional right to be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20405	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, Article 6. Section 3, 16, 18, 20, 23, 26 and 28 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 6. Sections 16, 19, 20 and 24 of the amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic and Jovana Mehandzic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20406	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers, my colleagues from the DS and I today have submitted an amendment proposing that priorities be considered more carefully when planning the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 and we have proposed that three ministries – the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Transport, get the strength and give up three and a half billion dinars and put those funds at the disposal of local self-governments of a billion and a half and the Ministry of Education and Science. So, to return the money that has been taken away from local self-government to complete projects that are not planned and cannot be completed, unfortunately, Serbian citizens living in these local self-governments. We further suggest that you provide two billion dinars for science and education, which we have already discussed in the past days. I don't want to repeat myself, but I want to point out again the importance of investing in education and science and the importance of the definition that education and science are not viewed as a cost, but to be viewed as an investment. Also, I would like to point out that if you return these billions of municipalities to the projects that are planned, which are now not able to bring an end, for the benefit of citizens living in these municipalities, that you have made it clear that the funds are there for the financing of the National Regional Development Agency. If memory serves me well, the ruling coalition said that the agencies would shut down, not that you would finance them further. If there are already local self-governments and there are cities and municipalities in Serbia, then I don't see why we shouldn't make funds available to them that can finish their projects and that these projects, or the results of the projects, are made available to Serbian citizens? So, I'm going to do it one more time and I'm going to be concise and very short. We ask, seek and appeal to three ministries, your Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Transport, to give up the amount of three and a half billion dinars and to make those funds available to local self-government, cities and municipalities, in the amount of one and a half billion, in order to complete the projects they have started. On the other hand, we suggest that the rest of the funds that you will give up, I hope, two billion dinars, be invested in education and science, so that the citizens of Serbia can benefit more directly, more directly than this budget rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20407	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20408	I understand that we need to advocate and raise money for education and science, the second question is where, but I'm surprised by the requirement that in conditions where local self-government has achieved ten billion surpluses in its accounts in the first five months you're asking for extra money to be allocated to local self-government. They're not local self-government in the deficit, they're not local self-government or AP Vojvodina in the deficit. Vojvodina had a surplus of 2.8 billion dinars, and local self-government is over 10 billion dinars for the first five months of this year, and now we'll see data for the first half-term. Second thing, you say take off extra money from the Ministry of Finance and Business, Transport and Regional Development. We've already taken down 12 billion of these ministries. Six billion to the ministry I run, about three billion to regional development and about three billion to the Ministry of Traffic. I repeat once again that there was more money there would certainly not be a substitute for science, or education. Education has downloaded some projects related to some of the investments they have delayed. They wanted to build some additional schools that were certainly needed but they put it off for next year, it's about capital investments, and the money for science is provided the way it's supposed to be in the original budget. After all, you will also see by realization in the next period by the end of the year. So, I absolutely support the theoretical insistence in your struggle for education and science, but it's unreal to ask for an additional download of someone who's already been stripped of 12 billion. But I don't understand what the requirement for additional funds for local self-government is when they, like the Republic, have to postpone some projects that can't be realized today. It would be better if there were more projects and opportunities for all but only relatively speaking, local self-government had ten billion surpluses, or surplus budgets in the first five months of this year. So it's not rational for that part of your amendment, not even theoretically observed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20409	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20410	Thank you, Minister, for your response, but I cannot say that my insistence is theoretical. So, I told you the day before yesterday when I had a statement in principle, 21 billion dinars for science education were allocated in the 2012 budget, by rebalancing when you became Minister of Finance, these funds for science and education were reduced to 17.7 billion. Further in the 2013 budget, you cut these funds for education and science to 15 billion dinars and now you reduce them to 13.2 billion dinars. So I can't accept your explanation that the same resources planned in the 2013 budget are also respected by this rebalancing, because simple mathematics proves exactly the opposite. Furthermore, as far as local self-government is concerned, you took away about 200m euros of income through a set of tax laws, making it impossible for those money to be made available to Serbian citizens living there. So I can't take that either as an explanation that in the 10 billion dinar surplus, when you already took away their previous set of laws that we passed after the emergency procedure, during the night of the maltene, they went into effect the next day, anyway, as will be the case with this rebalancing. So these aren't theoretical efforts, these are very practical efforts. We all live in a community and we have communication with the presidents of the municipalities and we know in what way you've put them in difficulty, that those obligations they've made to themselves, and ultimately the programme for which they've received citizens' trust cannot be implemented. So in a year, you'll say, that's where the municipalities failed to implement something in action and failed to keep their promises. So this is about simple responsibility to citizens, that some ministry that has most of the cakes must give up most of the cake. So, you put in the finance ministry and the business looks, most of the cakes... (Chairman: Time.) ) Just a sentence to finish, so you have to give up most of the cake. The Ministry of Science and Education is giving up on your rebalancing of 3.3 billion dinars. So by giving up 3.3 billion dinars, schools cannot be built in the country. How can we invest in the future unless we build schools and invest in knowledge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20411	Over-time of 54 seconds will be denied by the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20412	Some of the municipalities will have to pay first taxes to the debting states before considering the completion of the projects they intend to implement. Namely, the tax administration will no longer tolerate long-term tax evasion by some public utility companies. As of this month, everyone who owes for the tax if they don't get into the reprogramme immediately, they'll all be blocked. I expect first of all those municipalities that had in their composition municipal enterprises that did not pay tax obligations to the state, to now make use of their budgets, to guarantee reprogrammes to their utility companies, because no single utility will be released from this obligation. So, as you are already considering the completion of future projects, first of all to settle the obligations of the past, I am not telling you personally, of course you gave me a good reason to say something that is very important to the citizens of Serbia. If we ask the private sector to pay taxes in time and neatly, certainly the public sector must do the same. There's no generalization here. There are these cities and municipalities where the utility companies have worked safely and made peace and there are those where that wasn't the case. Problems exist that have changed authorities in some municipalities, so formerly inherited obligations when someone else was in power. I have already cited the example of the town of Novi Sad, one of the largest taxpayers of the Children's Institute of Joyful Childhood, it is the minority of the first ten taxpayers of Serbia at the moment, and now the town of Novi Sad has to pay for some obligations that the previous authorities did not settle. I guess it was normal for a public institution not to pay taxes to the state. That money doesn't go in the register to get what's going on. About 2% of the budget's nominal expenditures increased in the first six months of this year, compared to the same period last year, in the inflation rate. We haven't spent at all now, but if we want to have more money for these fire trucks and for better conditions for pensioners, for school workers, taxes have to be paid. The state cannot be expected to fulfil all legitimate wishes of citizens, unless it has nothing to do with them. So thank you for mentioning the local self-government as a province institution, as a republican, as well as the private sector, first to pay the debt to the state, and then to discuss future projects. It's a demagogy for me, because you say, some local self-government has given up on citizen projects, and these same citizens have been denied, because these same municipalities have not paid taxes. Come on, it's a vicious circle. You cannot create future projects for citizens, when these same citizens are not paid for the budget so that these same citizens get regular better roads or higher pensions. It's only when we have a clear situation that no one in this country is late to pay taxes, then we can see where we are and what to do next. Is that gonna solve all the problems? No, because we also have a previous burden of debt and interest, which can't be solved in such a simple way, but this is some base, a better payment of income. Better revenue collection than those who have been messy, which deal with business activities, but also from a full public sector that has to carry out its obligations regularly. If a water pipeline in some place, and there are such cases across Serbia is unable to pay the tax debt, it will have to seek a reprogramme, it has the right to a 24-month reprogramme, I have cited an example of a water pipeline, could any of the public enterprises, the programme for 24 months, but must lay down the same as any economic guarantee in the amount of the total debt. If that company does not have a guarantee, and there is no guarantee, the municipality must lie with its full budget, i.e. to pawn its transfers in advance, in order to ensure that taxes are paid. There will be no tolerance, no matter what municipality it is, we don't care if there is one or the other or the third party in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20413	We're done with the replicas. You're right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Minister Dinkic, days ago, and every time you're in the O.R., you answer the questions you're not asked. So we ask you one thing, and you answer something tenth. That's what any of us who listens to you can conclude, and also, you know that's your policy-making style. So someone asks you what time it is, and you say – there is a sunny time out there, in response, to simplify the final. I didn't ask you to charge taxes for what you were in charge of X years ago in this country. Now that tax bill, as you say, is not on a satisfactory level. I wouldn't think of that. I would not stress my failure in the first place when I give answers to one MP, because it kind of disrupts and threatens, as I would say, the dignity of this Parliament. I'd like to ask you a question, for example, how much Zajecar owes for taxes, if you've already touched tax issues. How much does Kragujevac owe for electricity? Do 300 million dinars of RTB Bor owe the municipality of Majdanpek in the name of... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20415	Please don't spread the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20416	I'm not spreading the subject, I'm sorry to have to enter the controversy, but these are the facts. So, the fact that Minister Dinkic answers questions every time an MP asks him about what he wants and does not get a warning to stick to the topic. There are MPs here who listen very well and pay attention to what Minister Dinkic is saying and every minister, every colleague. I'm one of those. So, Minister Dinkic... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20417	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm very good at listening and I'm trying to answer every question you give me, whether it has something to do with it or not. As for my previous answer, I was very clear. You said why don't you accept the amendment, where we suggest you take down the team and these ministries, to give local self-government a billion and a half dinars, because they will give up on projects that the citizens of these municipalities benefit from. I'm just saying, first of all, these municipalities pay taxes to public utility companies that they didn't do it for, and then they just think about these new projects, and plus they have 10 billion dinars extra in the first five months of this year. That's what you asked me and you found out and that's a direct answer to the subject. When you say I'm x-years in charge of paying and taxing in this country, then I'm just asking you to be precise. I am in charge of the issue from 2004 until the end of 2006, when the director of the tax administration, first name and last name, was Vladimir Ilic, now head of our parliamentary group, then I was minister of finance, and then from 2007, until the end of July of last year, some other people were in charge of it, Mirko Cvetkovic, as finance minister, was mostly in the period, there were several changes. What was the name of this director of the tax administration – Radosavljevic. So what I'm talking about is not the debts of public utility companies from the time I ran the Ministry of Finance and was really in charge of paying taxes, these are the debts of tax and public and municipal enterprises from the time the DS ran both the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance, even if you know it. You are, in my opinion, a very courteous lady and it is not appropriate to twist the facts. If I was the finance minister in 2010 or 2009 or 2011 or 2007, then you're right. You know I haven't been X years, but I've only been a finance minister since August last year and I was from 2004 to 2006, because we're talking about a specific jurisdiction, and that's tax collection. When I was the finance minister in that mandate, the state of Serbia had an surplus budget of 2 billion euros, and now unfortunately we have a major deficit. But we'll try to fix it even though it won't be easy because circumstances are much harder than before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20419	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20420	Chairman, I ask you to take this time away from the time of my authorised representative. Chairman, I think you should have warned Mr Dinkic, since he is not here to share epithets with the MPs whether they are polite, whether they are not polite. It's not his job. His job here is to defend, being alone here, having neither the Prime Minister nor the First Vice President, to defend this budget that is indefensible. On the other hand, when it comes to this concrete amendment, there are elements in the work that my colleague Mehandzic asked for the funds to be reduced to a specific appraisal intended for RTS. I ask you, Mr Dinkic, is this really your position to take two billion dinars indirectly from the citizens of Serbia because someone from your government has come to mind to cancel a TV subscription, to turn public service into a government service, or a personal service, and do you think that this is a way to spend two billion dinars as a loan or as a permanent grant? I'm asking you right now, when you're giving RTS, which is why you don't give a certain portion of the funds for RTS? How will it work when a television subscription is lifted in October? Did you forget her just because it wasn't in Mr. Wolf's pre-election promise? On the other hand, will you return the money paid to citizens who regularly paid for the TV subscription they paid in previous years to regularly settle their civic obligation? On the other hand, we have a situation that, when it comes to reducing budget revenues, which you have now discussed, counterpart Mehandzic has rightly noted that the government of the Republic of Serbia is in charge of the collection of budget revenues. You're here, as one of the reasons for a bad charge, to say that citizens are now smoking cut tobacco instead of tobacco that's packed in the original package. You led them to that. But, on the other hand, it's really not right to ask local self-government, you took their first money, now you ask them to pay taxes, and I'll show you two tax accounts issued by the city of Novi Sad the same citizen for 2012 and for 2013. Yesterday the same citizen arrived in the previous tax account, it was 5,312 dinars, and now it's 9,383 dinars. That's about 60% increase. When we told you that you would stick your hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens, taking from local self-government, you said it wasn't true. This is about a city run by your coalition partners, SNS, SPS and other coalitions. So, the citizens of New Now got yesterday, or will get today, bills increased by at least 60%. This apartment is located in the zone of the new settlement, so where is the increase at least. In the city center, it will be possible to increase more than 100%. There's an answer, Mr. Dinkic, and it turns out they're short feet in a lie. There's an answer to the question of whether you'll stick your hands in the citizens' pocket. Directly you put your hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens. through your, of course, coalition partners. They're no less responsible. You sit here alone, but you represent here both SNS and SPS. You took local self-government and for reasons why they couldn't, according to your new Public Procurement Act, implement public procurement, which is why they're in surplus, not because God knows how well they did business, and those funds were supposed to be realised in the follow-up, so to speak, the construction season. Now you've taken their money, and they'll take money from the citizens of Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, etc. Remember when we talked about it, when we talked about that law, when you said, "Let Gilas cut the tax." Here's how your coalition partners cut him down. It's not about who's running the city, it's about what he's got. You took their money and they're taking it from the citizens now. I'd like to ask you an answer to RTS and RTV, as this appraisal concerns it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20421	The word has Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20422	I'll take my turn. First, I'll tell Prime Minister Dacic how much you miss him here in this debate, how many times you've mentioned him. I see Hope Mirkovic isn't enough, we'll call Hans next time, I'll tell him. You've mentioned him so many times, I don't know what I'm going to think, how you treat him. Okay. It's about the Duke's radio television. Have you ever wondered why the province wouldn't do anything? Have you watched the province's final account for the past year, have you seen the relationship between income and expenditure in the first five months? In the first five months of this year, Vojvodina had 2.8 billion dinars more income than expenditure. So, surplus. Come on, why don't you give us some money for the tv? When you have to fight for jurisdiction, you're the first one, you have to finance that jurisdiction, do you want to have an independent editorial policy, that the province is the one to be informed, that the province ensures that there is a service? Then give some of those 2.8 billion dinars, put them in that province. I don't know what it's for. Why do you pile up these surpluses, and here you complain that there's no irrigation, there's no TV? Well, give some of that 2.8 billion extra dollars to the institutions you're talking about. Could the Republic be stopping you? Did you ever get a ban from the Republic that 2.8 billion surpluses, which you have, direct the TV, the farmers, the cities that are in trouble? I don't know what's keeping the province government from doing that. I really don't know. And even the Republic took over part of the Vojvodina Development Bank's debt, although not onion meals, not onion smells in it. All Serbian citizens now even pay for it. As for the local tax issues, the property tax, you know for yourself that local taxes are cut up early in the year, that the property tax law has not been changed in any important segment, not even in May when I came here to the Assembly and that every local self-government is responsible for prescribing that area itself, that it has a range of rates that it can share property in areas. It's the sole jurisdiction of cities and municipalities. Of course, this question is likely to be answered precisely by the people who run the city of Novi Sad. However, I can indirectly conclude that if the previous city government has left dues and debts behind, and even behind the kindergarten, I mention the Joyful Childhood for the hundredth time because it is a paradigm, because these obligations are measured in huge sums, where do you think these obligations are paid? It's the paradigm of the current people who run the finances and the previous ones from your party. It wasn't you who did it, but the people who did it. Your colleagues from your party, who ran the finances up to a year ago, thought if the problem was pushed under the rug they'd never become visible. The classic vision of pushing problems under the carpet is the failure to pay an account, i.e. creating a late, or creating a quasi-fiscal deficit. They mean, they'll never change power and they'll always be able to lay it under the carpet and who knows. My concern, move on to another, who knows who'll figure it out. Then there's the change. New people who run finance see debts and now have the next problem -- do you keep quiet about these debts and not pay them as well as predecessors, or do you settle them? If they're at peace, the question is, where is it from? There's no air to pay the debt, there's some money to pay, and in the end it turns out that, unfortunately, citizens always pay the debts of those who are irresponsiblely running the finances. What's a feature of this government in the Republic, and I believe in many local self-governments where some changes have occurred, is that they're telling the truth. I'm not going to tell you that it's easy to run public finances when it's terribly difficult. The dubiosis is huge, but I don't want to accept it, nor will I accept responsibility for something that isn't my own responsibility or the parties I've led. If an example is found, and I believe it does, because still running any party is not easy work when you have 170 municipalities in Serbia, whoever violates financial discipline and wherever, whether it is one party, the other party or the third party, it cannot be tolerated, because it is both boomerang to whoever runs the party. That's what happened to your party. I don't want that to happen to anyone else. It's just that my attitude will be simple. They were wondering about Zaječar, about Kragujevac. If they don't pay taxes, we're gonna have to charge them, no matter what my people run these cities. Also, the same treatment for the city that runs DS, SNS, SPS, URS, whoever runs, the non-party personality, the same criterion for everyone. Taxes have to be paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20423	National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think my DS colleagues are under the impression that the people have a short mind. I'd like to at least keep an eye on it when they say who's taking money from the citizens because I can say that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic didn't take money from the citizens, but took it. She took it the most brutal way. We have been hearing a few days of great controversy about how this government has tasked Serbian citizens with four billion euros. Of the four billion euros, two billion euros are likely to be charged by Mirko Cvetkovic to Serbian citizens. As far as these TV subscriptions are concerned, SNS hasn't introduced them. We can't pay back the money because it's spent. Unfortunately, we don't have any effect on that spending of money, and we don't really see it, except for employees' salaries, where that kind of money went missing. Is it possible to rent a sound under the pretext that public procurement in the area of culture is not being conducted, and I hear that a one-day sound rental is being paid as much as it costs, which of course we'll check? That famous deficit, here I am going to describe the structure of our deficit. The deficit is 178 billion dinars. The interest goes to 147 billion dinars on loans we didn't raise. Somewhere around 40 billion dinars go to the damages that were done at the Agrobank. Somewhere around 18 billion dinars are going to resuscitate the damage that was done at Vojvodina Development Bank. So if you hadn't been doing damages and borrowing the state, there wouldn't be a deficit today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20425	I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the amendment. National MP Janko Veselinović, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20426	Mr. Minister, your recommendation that the AP Vojvodina, or the government of Vojvodina, pays for future RTD's business is to call for illegal treatment. TV, like RTS, found herself in a very awkward situation, because someone promised to cancel the subscription. It's kind of assumed through this budget, since you've provided two billion dinars for RTS, but you haven't done that. Even if TV was financed by the government of Vojvodina illegally, it would be a coup against the independence of the public service. So we don't think RTS and RTS should be political media, like the tabloids we're talking about today and who are talking about, unfortunately, I don't support it, but I don't think that's the way RTS and RTS should be. They should be independent and should be equal to all political entities in this country. On the other hand, the difference that the citizens of Novi Sad will pay through the payment of property taxes this year, increased by 60%, will go, Mr Arsic, to cover court rulings for ATP Vojvodina and the Bus station Novi Sad, which your party personnel have made and will not be enough. It will also be necessary for future generations to pay for this task.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20427	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this damage done by the DS while it was in power applies not only to one city, but to the entire state. About how we came to these famous 22% unemployed and how 550 billion dinars for the Health Insurance Fund and the Pension Insurance Fund must be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and so much is paid because your business friends, or your party president's business friends, bought out companies that had 40,000 employees, and now they cut them to 11,000. That's why we have empty funds, which is why we have a problem with the rebalance, with budget revenues. That's why we have a problem with the downturn in economic activity. Just remember that famous story, almost try to make it happen again in Pogorevc, three sugars for one euro. Here, they almost tried, the same man another sugar shop to buy for one euro, with it in bankruptcy, so he'd get a clean sugar bar, no debts. What? To raise his loans again and put his land under a mortgage, and then he left it ruined, and the money went missing who knows where. That's how you run the country. The people punished you in the last election. It's just that it seems to me to be the beginning of your sentence, because you no longer have the media you control, you no longer have the media owned by Dragan Gilas, your party president, along with Miskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20429	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, a replica on behalf of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20430	Most reluctantly, truly reluctantly, whenever you're in trouble, when you point to the holes in the rebalancing, when you point to the problem that exists now and which will exist from now on, you never miss the chance to get into that hole you're going to yell out of – it's all these before us. We repeat it a hundred times, you won't hear it, but because of the citizens of Serbia, all numbers deny you, Mr Arsic, even the numbers you use are incorrect. Then you mention people and privatisations that have all gone your way. All those people you mention are now either very close or proud advances. I don't even know who you're pointing at, not yourself. Get up in this Serbia, with this rebalancing, no questions asked, no answers you've given, without how you imagine public service, whether as an official SNS message or not. That's what we asked you. What our punishments will be, it will show time, but it will not happen what you wish for, which is to be alone and to choke all opposition and to read, think and talk as you wish. That's not gonna happen. It's awkward when we go back in time. I've asked you before, for some level of this assembly, don't keep following arguments that no one in this country cares about anymore, except your supporters. If we go into the past, billions lost by Cvetkovic will turn into billions lost for your powers in the 1990s. Thirty thousand unemployed today will turn into 30,000 people with post-traumatic stress syndrome because of your wars.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20431	Thank you. MP Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20432	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I never run away from responsibility and for what we do and for what we don't do, which we should have done. I've got the exact information. I haven't invented any data, 178 billion is a deficit in the 2013 budget, of which 147 billion are interest based on loans raised by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. It says that in the rebalancing. Of which 40 billion is the recovery of the damage that was done in Agrobank, 18 billion of which is the recovery of the damage that was done at Vojvodina Development Bank. That's when you add 205 billion dinars. You figure out how many 205 billion dinars are less than 178 billion, so you'll see, if it wasn't for this damage, there wouldn't be any rebalancing, there wouldn't be any deficits. Don't talk about it anymore. That you have the right to criticise us, I agree, for the strategy, too, but for the economic situation at least a few more years you have no right to tell us anything, because the damage you did while you were in power, it will be removed for years, not to say for decades. You're very well aware of that. After ten years of SNS authorities, I don't mind you criticizing us for the state of economy and economy, I just don't think that's when the DS is going to be able to do it. He won't be in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20433	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20434	Thank you. It's about an amendment submitted by my colleague, Jovana Mehandzic. The substance of the amendment is that education and funding positions for local self-government are increased to a total of three billion. Explanations on why the amendment was rejected have no clarity in the text, but we heard from the finance minister here in an explanation of the rejection of counterpart Mehandzic's amendment, that everyone in Serbia has a surplus. Local self-government is in surplus, the province of Vojvodina is in surplus, only Minister Dinkic is in short supply, to caricate. That's what you can see in the stenogram. I have a problem then that sometimes I find it difficult to understand whether the minister boasts or regrets that he is the finance minister, and in seeking a better minister, then to address those local self-governments that have surpluses and in this Vojvodina that have surpluses, if Minister Dinkic already says there is a shortage. Here we are talking to MPs who know that the fiscal cycle of one budget in Serbia is slightly less than four months in recent years, that we have hardly put together a year with a budget without rebalancing. There are a large majority of MPs here who understand very well how revenue is evaluated, how expenditures are estimated in the budget, and if one excellent amendment says that we increase the total amount of funding for education and that we increase local self-governments at the same time, this is because we know what they're talking about. In what we got as an explanation, why doesn't Vojvodina, if there's a surplus, and apparently there is, says the minister, trust him, why doesn't he finance Vojvodina's Radio Television? Because it's a public service. And this is suspicious how we're going to do with funding. Another remark was made by the minister instead of an explanation, which is that municipal public enterprises in Serbia do not pay tax obligations and then, quote, have to pay, against which there is no one in this room, and will be guaranteed by the budgets of local self-government. Our question is – why don't you block them immediately? What's the point of trying to get MPs here who know exactly what it's about, when it comes to debt and when it comes to the work of the tax administration, to try as a fact, to say in a way that doesn't have anything to do with facts? So, one well-intentioned amendment, to invest more in education, since we know that local self-governments will be left without income, to help them too, has turned into a quote from the minister that they all have surpluses other than the republican budget and into a promise that they will all have to re-provide the tax debt with the guarantee of the local budget. Neither was the question, nor did the minister's answer exceed enough without us having any further objections. Understanding the total difficulty of a good budget assessment, we were in November, when the budget which is now rebalancing was passed, said – you underestimated the expenditure, you overestimated the revenues, it won't work, it's not sustainable. 32/1AD/MJ16. 45-16.55 There must be a reform of funds that are not, both PIO and health care, because it's a way to see exactly where the money is. Unfortunately, there was no dialogue on the subject, and unfortunately for me, I can see that this rebalancing is also going on, essentially, without dialogue. If it is the Minister's will that the debate in the Assembly is to belittle, silence and insult the MPs, it is his will. There's nothing you can do, not even the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly that's talking about the course of the session, but from that, too, no one will benefit. This debate should serve to really have a dialogue on revenues and expenditures in Serbia, so that all together can benefit from the reduction of deficit agreements, which we can measure at the end of 2013. Otherwise, the political colour of money in the budget can be an infinitely inspiring topic for all of us and there are also more than enough of us in this room to know exactly what political color the money is, in which position in the budget. But all together, it's not the answer again -- why can't an extra 1.5 billion for education? Why, knowing that local self-government will run out of income, it cannot be adopted, referring to them and to citizens living in those local self-governments, counterpart Jovana Mehandzic's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20435	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20436	I am really trying to answer all the questions of the MPs. Unfortunately, or fortunately, Serbia's budget is not mine. The republican budget is the country's budget, the citizens of Serbia. When you say -- how come Dinkic's budget is down, and locals are in plus, where's lucky for one man to be responsible for what's wrong. I'm going to tell you how the Republic budget is in this negative, and the situation in this other one is where and where it's tolerable, so to speak, nowhere is easy. Do you know how many states, when I say you don't think of you personally but of all MPs, this year you only had to pay off the debts and interest that were recovered? A total of 4.5 billion euros for the debt found and interest, without funding the rest of the budget deficit above interest costs. So 4.5 billion euros, after which 3.7 billion euros is the main and 800,000 euros are interest. The 800,000 euros are in the budget expenditure structure. That's 91.6 billion dinars. Unlike 91 billion to 178 deficits, additional financing costs are. Over these 4.5 billion euros, which means about five billion euros this year, we provide to cover first of all the debt from the past, interest based on the debt from the past and cover the difference in the budget deficit of these additional ones, as I said, 80 billion dinars, or you can easily calculate in euro. The central question not for me, I am currently the finance minister, but for our country, is - how in the coming period to stop the dizzy cost growth on behalf of the interest that eats all the positions in the budget, not just for fire trucks, not just for the construction of schools, not just for agriculture, but for all the living, for pensions, for the salaries of teachers, teachers? So the central question of my grief is neither the press has ever asked me, nor any of you. That's not my question. That's the question of this country. The debt recovered from the past is so theoretically to stop me from fully increasing interest costs in 2014 in order for it to be at the same level as this, at this 91.6 billion, the state should have in cash 2.6 billion euros to pay off the principal of debts in advance and extinguish loans worth 2.6 billion euros, in order to keep the next year's interest at 91.6 billion dinars. This is the problem of Serbian public finances. This problem has nothing to do with me or this new government. It's a couple of excellency heirlooms from the past five years. Public debt participation in 2007 was below 30% of GDP. Under 30% of GDP. I'm not complaining about taking over the hardest possible job in this country. Any of you tell me where to find 2.6 billion euros to put those debts out? The fiscal council today reiterated a proposal a month ago to cut wages and pensions, to tax pensions of more than 25,000 dinars, so-called. With a solidarity tax, and a salary greater than 40,000 dinars. Is there anything we can do about all this? I'm telling the truth. We wouldn't do anything. Why don't we do it? Because unfortunately, our people have small salaries and small pensions. If we did what the Fiscal Council suggested, we'd have a storm in a glass of water that would eventually break, as this glass of mine has now broken. The point is, that would only make the pressure recessions. We would have stiffed the modest growth of GDP, which is now 2.1% and I hope it can be slightly larger by the end of the year. If we further cut small wages and pensions anyway, even less would be domestic demand, people would buy less and small would be production by doing so, which is intended for domestic needs. It would continue to produce for export, but domestic production would be lower. This was done several years ago by Greece and Portugal and some other countries. I don't know where the cuts in wages and pensions managed to lead to higher employment and growth in production? I don't think he's anywhere. Certainly not in Greece and Portugal. We can say that our mentality is closer to the mentality of Greeks and Portuguese than the mentality of some people living in northern Europe. What does that mean? Greece and Portugal today have a 29% unemployment rate, Serbia 24.1%. High in Serbia, even higher there. For five years, Greece cannot lift its head from recession. It's just the unemployment rate is growing. You've seen what's going on in Portugal these days. It's certainly not a recipe. They did it and nothing helped them, plus they were helped I don't know all the loans for the reprogramme of previous loans. Someone may like this or not, but there are only two ways out of this current inherited dead end situation. One is either to find some friends in the world who would lend us this money on a long deadline with low interest rates, and then pay off expensive loans and get a chance to make economic development in the future. I don't even know how real this situation is. You can see for yourself that even friends like the Russians, that only 500 million dollars were given, and we would need 2.6 billion euros, or 3.5 billion dollars. That's not real. The theoretical option is to sell assets, owned by the state, and pay off one part of the expensive loans. I know a lot of people don't like this, but this is the truth. There is no third solution. Serbia cannot raise the rate of economic growth from 2% to 20% annually. That's impossible. So there's a huge problem ahead of us. I wanted to share it with you because I don't think I blame you for not getting such a question. You just can't know the full numbers. But I think it's good to know that the cost of interest growth can't be stopped by cutting discretionary expenses, reducing wages and pensions. All of this would be only partial and insufficient and counterproductive. The only way is two things: culmination, raising the rate of economic growth through strengthening investment in infrastructure and production, at least from credit, when I say infrastructure, because we do not have enough domestic resources. The second thing, these reforms we adopted at the government, but they won't be able to pass without privatising certain assets and using those revenues to pay off expensive loans from the past. Anyone can say it's possible without it. I know it's not possible. The numbers say that. It is my request that those who have led public finances to such a situation, even now or at least do not speak of it at all. I know that I'm constantly being transferred to others, but it's a fact -- does anyone think that paying off debts is 4.5 billion euros in credit for this government and me as finance minister since the end of July of last year? If that's what he thinks, good for him. It's clear that it has nothing to do with it. It accumulated and came to a point where it couldn't stop by simple methods. Progress can be tempered, but it only stops if we pay off part of the expensive loans. The second option is something in between. That means we're going to economic growth, we're paying loans regularly, but we can't stop interest-cost growth, but we can't even cut wages and pensions. All we have to do is cancel our salaries and our pensions, and that's impossible. I'm sorry I might have said all this now, but it's the living truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20437	MP Marko Atlagic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20438	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I am truly shocked by the insults, that is, by the violation of the dignity of the DS representatives. You probably didn't notice what he said in the last sentence. He turned to us and said that our wars, that we fought wars. I really ask that this never happen again in this congregation. In those wars in 1990 and 1991, some defended the country. Unfortunately, some of them were locators, and today they're provokers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20439	Mr. Atlagic, don't answer for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then let's challenge this atmosphere. National MP Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20440	Except I've been waiting half an hour to get in line to talk about the amendment, and you're allowing something like this. Injury of Article 107. Who was the locator in Serbia? How do you allow someone to speak in the congregation in the first place after the minister who tells us about a new way of thinking, a new view of the world, of inherited problems? I'm not going in any further. I don't know why Mr. Atlagic is complaining. He did and he literally fought a war because he participated in it and it's no shame at all, but no one in this country was anyone's locator. If you will, the locators were the brave warriors who actually sold wood or eventually arrested them as poor men in a pantry with Modiliani's picture worth a few million dollars.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20441	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20442	I think there are a few things that should not be spent too much on either emotion or bile, although I agree with the previous speaker, Mr. Djuric. What's a fact is that through the appeal that we from the DS per don't know which time we tried to initiate in the National Assembly that they weren't going in the direction of conversation and scratching on their ugly past, because it's not convenient, it's not dignified and it's not good. What's certainly bad is when in that effort to bring down the arguments that attack exclusively and only rebalancing, you have nothing else to say but move on the woods, the drills, the front lines. Then when we tell you that you've left 200 billion euros of ruined land, then get angry. Otherwise, Mr. Arsic, 147 billion short. I don't know where you see it. It was 90 and it was interest. That's what you said several times on a couple of TV shows. It's a lie. Be precise. The fact is that four billion is directly your debt, and you can't do it with any spin, no false blankets you throw at us to cover up, because the biggest expense in this country, ladies and gentlemen dear friends, is on the annual level, Mr. Arsic, 300 million euros a year for the old foreign currency savings you've left us. That's the biggest item. Check the budget. It's the biggest expense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20443	Time. MP Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I read nicely in the Budget Rebalance proposal that 90 billion is a payment of interest on domestic debts. That difference to 140 billion is foreign debt payments. That's what it says. When you start talking about that ugly past, I just want to draw attention to you to avoid mentioning wars because I can accuse many others of what they did during the wars. I avoid that all the time. I can, believe it. I can't personally, but many who have been there can. When it comes to all these debts, where did last year with 30 June 112 billion dinars in the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic? Now at the age of 30.6.2013, 98 billion are in charge and this is what this government has done. Or if you calculate the nominal difference is 14 billion and percent 13%. It means that by 13%, the government owed the citizens of Serbia less because it is trying to reduce the budget deficit. Don't mention those four billion-euro figures anymore because two billion are tops from the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. That's what this is about. I don't want to repeat the data that everybody knows. Even you can read them, get to them, etc. (President: Time. ) When you mention these famous 300m euros in foreign savings loans, only Agrobank is 360m euros. No less than that. The Development Bank comes to the roof of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20445	National MP Gordana Komic, a replica of the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20446	The minister noted that there was no of ours and theirs, ours and his budget, but he introduced it into the exposure. I wouldn't make such a joke comment if the minister hadn't mentioned their local self-government budgets several times, their budgets in Vojvodina, and his budget is in deficit. I agree that that is not the way to speak, but I only used the quote the minister used on several occasions, avoiding giving an explanation why he refuses to amend counterpart Jovana Mehandzic. The next speech is a speech that does not belong in the budget rebalancing debate, but in dialogue with MPs, with parliamentary groups, with the college, however you wish. It is an agreement on macroeconomic parameters, on the context of the economic crisis and on how Serbia will behave in the future. There's no dialogue. When we offered dialogue, it was so bad to interpret it not as the budget of Minister Dinkic, but rather as the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Once we understand that Serbia's budgets are Serbia's budgets and local self-government budgets and the Vojvodina budget, especially funds for PIO and health insurance of Serbia's budget, then dialogue will begin. I am always ready for dialogue and to challenge what-what of what the minister is in his presentation, not on the subject of the budget, I have shared with us here, but I am glad that there is a will for dialogue, regardless of what is said that everyone else has a surplus in the budget, and only in his budget there are shortages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20447	The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20448	It's been a long time since I applied for a word about this amendment and about the different interpretations of the discussion. All in all, what I wanted to say is, something that bothers me personally, an intrinsic abuse of the position of certain social groups in our society in the context of the budget rebalance debate, in such a way as to express itself, let's call, care for, whether it's a sick child, whether it's a single mother, and all in the context of showing that someone doesn't care, and here we would now transfer funds to them, and when they were in a position they didn't. You know what, at the very least, all those who are at risk at the moment, which is not enough funds in Serbia, whether it's single parents, children who are suffering from severe diseases or old people, it's not right to discuss it in such a way and with such argument. Of course, we need to talk about all the threats in Serbia, but persistent insistence, repetition raises simple suspicion. I've never trusted politicians who keep repeating such things in their vocabulary and in their argument. This apparently states that it is about abuse, manipulation, demagogy, or populism. I know some politicians who know how to, what the people would say, pre-terms, agree on a sad face, and then start talking and talking about how to help single parents, how to help artificial insemination, maternity homes, and they say that so tired of working between two businesses. I don't think it's right for anyone in this congregation to speak that way. This speech of mine can be understood in that context. I am being fenced and I am asking all fellow Members of Parliament not to defend the argument in this way when it comes to certain positions in the budget. The easiest thing to say is there's not enough money for health care. There's not enough money for defense, there's not enough money for education. You've heard from the minister and we've been discussing it for a few days now that we're in serious trouble. Why are we in this problem? I'm not going to use the argument, which is usually used, which is why we're here, I'm going to skip. We've simply collectively spent more than we've earned, both as a state and as individuals. Today we are in a position to face it, together, collectively and instead of having a constructive debate, to say -- these are possible sources to achieve greater incomes that we will use on these things that are needed, we are accusing each other, attacking, blaming who did what in the past, who now misses to do. I want to point out by my discussion that I think we can have enough responsibility and reason to talk about these topics openly, without manipulation, without throwing our citizens' emotions at each other in such a way and abuse it. It's my appeal and a request for you. I think citizens already recognize it in all of us who have the habit of doing it, so I don't think it's fair, at least, to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20449	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20450	I don't know if I should give up on this, since Mr. Ilic has shown a really strange ambition to determine what MPs can talk about or thought of someone in particular, but he didn't specify it. What do citizens think of us and what confidence do we have? They'll show it properly. Of course, I'm gonna talk about sick kids because I think it's a scandal that they don't have, and they're insurance in the health system. I think it's a shame that they don't have any for mineralized briquettes of salt, starters, Grovers, vitamin-mineral supplements and other means to improve the savings and health protection of gamers, for example, in the North-Kosovo and South-Kosovo hunting areas for which you will allocate 110 million dinars from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think we should give for it, but that we should transfer that money to the Rare Disease Treatment Fund. I'm not saying that in my head. I did not say – reduce taxes and increase social benefits, but I specifically said – take off this position and put on this position. I'm sorry, I don't see any pulsism or demagogy in that, and even if there's pulsism and demagogy, how can I tell you, I don't care. If this little girl gets to Houston and survives surgery, I'll be happy, so you can do whatever you want, but let's get back to what Mr. Dinkic said. Thank you, Mr. Dinkic, for mentioning those five years that are a problem. I don't think the problem is five years. I think the problem is 50 years and 50 years this country can't answer the question why it's so inefficient and cannot service its current costs. Why did I answer this amendment? I've got one question. This is about schools, you said that, don't worry, it would be even worse if you really invited Prime Minister Dacic, instead of your co-worker, he wouldn't stop talking and throwing away, so we couldn't even talk this long, delayed capital investment, or building some schools. Do you have information, it is impossible to learn from other ministries, is it planned, say, to build and one toilet with running water in schools in Serbia? It's not a big investment and it doesn't have to wait for a better time. It's a few thousand euros per school. I think you could do that. Why would I think that? It seems more often to me that the problem is in poor planning and not to recognize priorities, but to lack of money. So the other thing is that you said, Mr. Dinkic, that the parties are big and that at some point the leaders will have to take responsibility for those who at the local or state-owned enterprises do not settle their obligations, etc. I believe that's your attitude. What about those local officials or directors of large social, state, public companies that at one point change the party? For example, for debts created on various grounds in RTB Bor, some of them. During Mr. Spashowski, at different stages, in the '90s he was in the government or the last few years when he was in G17 plus, or the URS, and then the man decided to move to SNS. What leader is now responsible for his possible mistakes? Free Milosevic is in no condition. I believe you don't want to take responsibility. I saw that you were very visibly, as the first firm on the list of state aids, listed exactly RTB Bor, the day after Mr. Spashowski moved to SNS. Of course, I don't think that's the reason. Who's in charge of those debts now? I don't know, there are 130 million dinars in debt to the municipality they built. Who arranges for this blatant behavior, that when LDP MP Radmila Gerov talks about the operation of RTB Bor, from something called RTB Public Relations Service, what does it sound like, someone deals with the MP in a very arrogant way – those who fed you the wrong information, we are here to explain everything, show you, prove it, come, be our guest? Who do these people answer to now, or who is responsible for them? You or their new party bosses? Why is this letter received by Mrs. Gerov from RTB Bor's leadership important? Because there's been a confession to what we've been talking about for years. Her question was – why do one or some companies get the opportunity to charge in advance what they do? They say, "Many, and by government order, RTB gives copper to a delay, say, "Jagodina cables," "The copper cylinders," and "Parmacoma". RTB Bor gives copper with delayed payments even to those domestic customers who do not have state protection." Can you explain to me, Mr. Dinkic, what is state protection in such a legal-political and economic system, to say a little to that ancient dictionary? How is that determined and who answers for it? There's a problem, Mr. Dinkic, because you get up and you say we have to sell something to get back maybe early some overpriced, bad credit that someone took before you did. I agree, but three minutes before you Mr. Arsic talked about buying three sugars for three euros. Is there a tender or competition in the market economy, when the property is sold, and anyone who offers the best conditions wins? Is that our vision, I think it should be, or is it, like, a 1997/1998 Telecom sale? year, when it was some different power, we barely threw up after that Telecom, or is it a direct contract with the Russians around NIS? What's better? I think it's better selling sugar than it was. In doing so, you wouldn't have had what little you have in this budget and rebalancing if it weren't for those people who, despite everything, are doing something. Why is that a problem to say in this country? Here, I think Mr. Kostic is one of them. Otherwise, I suppose the wife of the President of the Republic wouldn't attend this truly wonderful gesture of giving private property, a private house for charity. Then decide -- colchosi or capitalism. If it's capitalism, then by the rules of capitalism and then there's no room for such objections anymore, because the next step is three dinar bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20451	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20452	First of all, let me tell you why we didn't accept your amendment. Only for technical reasons, because it's impossible from the budget fund, which by law is created solely for that purpose, to reroute for something else. Otherwise, if you had given the amendment that was possible, I would have accepted it, because I think you're absolutely right. But it's impossible to do that because it's a budget fund. It's no ordinary budget split. He's foreseen by the Wildlife and Hunting Act. If you consider it illogical, suggest changing that law, as an MP. Because it's just not in my vault. I'm telling you, I'm sure it's much more important to set aside resources for the treatment of rare diseases than this law provides, but the law has to change. Because in this form, it's impossible to accept the amendment. As far as the question of responsibility is concerned, I am always for individual personal responsibility, that no one is covering behind the party, because you are right that there are a lot of people who are not moral in politics and who change parties. But that's the way it is. Everyone has to be responsible for their actions. Every man is a person to himself, and of course there is some kind of political responsibility if you make a political mistake. When it comes to state systems, there will be no or no exceptions. As for my presentation on RTB Bor, I said exactly like this – that a pre-prepared restructuring plan will be done, where past debts will be treated in the way in these plans, therefore, according to private trusts with the discount will be reprogrammed, written off those debts from the past state and such companies as RTB Bor will be independent on the market. As for this particular question that your fellow MPs have received, Ronald should be asked himself, since he probably knows what he wrote and what he was saying. If you don't know who Ronaldo is, that's exactly the gentleman you mentioned. That's what he calls himself in the press.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20453	Thank you. I remind the MPs and the minister that we are currently discussing the amendment to Article 6, that we are not going at an accelerated pace and in advance. Bojan Djuric has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20454	I agree, but Mr. Spaskovski didn't become Ronaldo 10 days ago, I suppose he thought so nicely of himself before that. But let's not get too far into that amendment that's still on the agenda. Simply, I reacted to what Mr. Ilic was talking about, but the discussion on this amendment went somewhat wider. If you're looking at it like that, I can agree that at this point it's not possible. But if there's any excuse that this is intended by some law, then no reform can ever be implemented. That's the problem, Mr. Dinkic, and I agree with you. It's not just our country. We'll probably have that problem when we finally get into that PIO fund reform one day. Here, Slovenia had a huge problem. That's where the government fell and everything turned around in that country. There the government even had the courage and the ability to reform. And then it came before the Constitutional Court, who said they were absolutely rights and that they couldn't be changed. That's why we need a new format and a new answer for a new time. If we operate in those categories, we'll always have a problem with some constitutional court, with a budget fund for hunting, etc. I agree it's the law, but the final contest came out a year ago. I doubt the state even uses that money to charge that fund. You have conditions on the Ministry of Agriculture site. How do you think these companies in the South-Kosovo hunting area will meet the condition that they deliver, say, a credit card for the seriousness of the offer of 10% of the offered value or proof that they have settled their taxes, that they are technically equipped, etc.? It's a mockery of any logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20455	Time. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20456	Thank you, although I don't know what the amendment is on the agenda anymore, since it seems to me that the discussion has gone really far. But I believe it was an amendment from the lady who was talking about transferring funds to local self-government, so I'm going to go back to it. I often admire the verbal locks of my colleagues. Many of them taught me the same thing, at a time when I became a national MP, and I used to do it myself. But I have to say, lately, it seems to me that neither the citizens have time for that, nor should we be discussing very serious issues in this way. Repeating a lie countless times does not mean that it will become the truth. It was only a motto of some very, though well-known, but not so famous people who were into marketing. So the repeated lie that Minister Dinkic is responsible for taxes in this country for 10 years does not become true. I will repeat that since 2000, from the last 12 years, Minister Dinkic has been Minister of Finance for two years, from 2004 to 2006, and in this last year, it means three and this one, a total of four years. So, eight remaining years... Since my colleague's laughing, I'll explain. Therefore, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2012-2013. So, four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20457	Mrs. Plassic, she's probably laughing because you're away from the topic. So please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20458	I may have strayed from the subject, but according to this same amendment, this same subject has been discussed, so I'm using the same opportunity others have used. The topic was also local self-government, the topic was tax discipline and the topic was financing public service. That's all I'm gonna talk about. Why do local self-government have surpluses? Because on a proposal from the URS local self-government, they were given the opportunity to benefit from the property tax. That's what they got, the Law on the financing of local self-government. If you give someone something 100%, and then because of saving that someone loses 10%, they still have 90%. As far as taxes and tax payments are concerned, I think we've all agreed, all these days, that we're uncompromisingly in favour of the absolute collection of taxes, without exception. I believe it's something we haven't even had any doubts about. But financing public service is something that has a lot of polemics. I'm plowing with the attitude some colleagues have made, that public service cannot be independent if it is financed from the budget. Is he an independent public defender, my question? Is she an independent protector of equality, for protection against discrimination? Is it independent in our country of any independent body financed from the budget? Yes, it is. Could the public service be independent, even though it is financed from the budget? Ask the BBC. So there are various models of public service financing in Europe. I'm not defending any models, but I'm in favour of a model that will make public service sustainable. However, there is another problem. What's the problem with media funding? First of all, the transparency of media ownership. Therefore, the public service will not make it independent to fund directly from citizens or to finance from citizens through budgets. But other media will make their ownership independent. Every medium must know who its owner is. Let me tell you right now, that is the question that has the most resistance in Serbia. I was personally able to talk about it with some associations, very powerful in that area. Do you know what they told me? It'll never go away in Serbia. So powerful are some people behind the media in Serbia. So, transparent property, as was the case with the press, eventually came public who owned these newspapers. Then the concentration of ownership in the media. Dear citizens and citizens, the third very important question - how is public service financed, among other things, and numerous other media? Why are they fighting for your ratings? Not because you're gonna pay them directly, because you're watching them. They're fighting for your ratings to get as many commercials as possible and to finance their own media. Here we come to the basic question – who holds the media and who holds the advertising space in the media? I didn't mention any names, so don't spread your hands, pal, so don't hold it. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: You are not in the subject for six minutes. I've got time for a 19-minute parliamentary group, if I want to, I can talk for 19 minutes. (Chairman: Please don't talk to each other.) Go on. Here you go. I'm sorry. I ask the question – what does the Antimonopoly Commission do when it comes to this? This is a public service issue, to return to the topic, since public service is a topic. Public service is the subject of an amendment spoken of. Public service also owns advertising space. Public service is at risk, among other things, because many more advertising is being sold by other media. So, the public service is absolutely a topic. In this sense, I ask the Anti-Monopolitan Commission – is there a monopoly in the area of media funding in Serbia? whether there is a monopoly in the sale of media advertising space in Serbia, including Serbia's Public Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20459	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The amendments, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Zlatko Dragoljevljevic and Milovan Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has not spoken out on the amendment. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20460	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'm sure each of us has confidence in what makes us poor. We can start with the Kosovo Color, from the First Serbian Uprising, from the fact that the English did not land in the Balkans but in Italy, etc. We have given, a parliamentary group together for Serbia, an amendment that we believe can make citizens of Serbia or at least a large number of them richer than they are now. The first part of this amendment refers to the separation of money, 900 million dinars, for the return of 1,700 agronoms to agricultural professional services. They advised over 350,000 agricultural holdings last year. Their job was to make people who were farming more than they had earned before. Unfortunately, almost a year were no longer engaged by the state, by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I am absolutely certain that this kind of investment of the state in professional engagement of agronomial is multiple cost-effective. In fact, this entire service is costing about 20m euros on an annual basis somewhere, and therefore these 900m dinars, we think that seven or six or five months at the appropriate amount, would be sufficient and that they can be hired from the beginning of August or at the latest from the beginning of September. On the other hand, the state is very justifiably spending as much as 300m euros on subsidies to farmers, and I think it has an extremely high interest to see what the effect of spending so much state money on our opportunities in agriculture is. This is not possible if such a large number of people who are engaged by the state are unable to see how subsidies are used and whether we have an increase in average yield, whether agriculture is raised to a higher level from year to year, which is, of course, the goal. I'm going to say once again, 350,000 landlords had a service. People had the opportunity to do all the administrative work very easily. Unfortunately, this year, I think we saw that this thing was not in the best way organized because the farmers spent a great deal of time in front of the vault administrations and couldn't effectively and quickly carry out all the formalities that were necessary to, as they did a year before, be able to exercise their rights to subsidies and other grants that the state had at their disposal. For these or those reasons, we've met with one very bad thing when it comes to milk. I'm sure we had these 1,700 agronomists, so we wouldn't be in any trouble if we had aflatoxin problem. I don't get into it, or who's guilty, or who's right. I asked Minister Rasim Ljajic how bad it is that aflatoxin has become a topic, he told me that the damage is about 100m euros, at least, and it is possible that it is twice as much. Agronomists cost the state 20m euros annually. I'm sure they were hired not to have this problem, and now it's about our food industry portfolio, in this case, the milk processing industry would be in a much better situation today than it is. The second part of the amendment concerns 500m dinars, possibly about fivem euros, which have been proposed to be made available to the Water Directorate, so that it can order projects for 100,000 hectares of land to irrigate 100,000 hectares of land. Therefore, for the construction of irrigation and disposal channels in 2014. This job would require an investment of around 200m euros. If the design started or the design process started immediately we as a state would be able to start these works by the beginning of the construction season in 2014, at the end of February or early March, 200m euros for the primary irrigation network and about 150m euros for the secondary network, 350m euros is 1% of GDP, slightly more than that. So, next year alone, on this basis, we had a 1% growth of social product. It's an investment that's worth it without any choir. Last year, we trained 64,000 hectares of land to irrigate, by clearing existing channels, costing about 10m euros, now it's time to enter into the construction of new irrigation systems, and I think the government would make an extraordinary shift in economic policy, if it would create preconditions for these works to happen next year. It is not possible to raise the country's capacity to produce food, until we are very serious and with great investments, we enter the irrigation projects. I would like some private investors to show up here to invest two, three, five hundred million euros, a billion euros in irrigation. I'm afraid that's not certain. The state has to make a decision - are we going to go into irrigation or not? Are we as citizens of Serbia to raise money for this or not? Two and a half million people in Serbia are engaged in food production. Half of them, as exclusive to their profession and the other half, along with another activity they perform. It's the poorest part of the people. Twice the poverty between these two and a half million people is greater than the population of Serbia, which lives in cities. It is not possible to make a serious move in living standards unless the poorest part of the people gets a chance to earn more. If this poorest part of the people doesn't get a chance to, too, a small part of that profit to pay through taxes, Mr. Minister. So we'll step by step to stabilise public finances. Of course we can spend a lot of energy on finding fault here. I think it's better to deal with political analysts and historians, and let's see if there's anything we can do to make us richer than we are, just a little bit of money we have. Neither can you do it alone, nor can the government itself. When I spoke in the debate in principle, I urged us to open a serious and political and social dialogue on this, to determine how much we as Serbian citizens are willing to pay our country and for irrigation both for our schools and for our hospitals and for our military and for our police and for our courts. This proposal, regardless of what is formally proposed to transfer money from the Ministry of Finance and Industry to the Ministry of Agriculture, is in fact a proposal that should raise the entire economy, because increasing food production eventually leads to an increase in both production and production of the entire processing industry and the production of milk and meat and processing and the dairy industry and the conditory industry, to increase exports, to reduce the external trade deficit, we produce food worth 10.5 billion euros, our capacity is 100 billion euros. Until we start irrigating from using that potential, there's nothing. For this reason, I am fully convinced that these five million euros now to the Water Directorate, to project 100,000 hectares and to make those 100,000 hectares in the coming year, would be a big step to open up the opportunity for our people to earn more, as well as agronomic advisers. People need help, people need good service. The state needs to control what her money is going to and see what the effects of the money we're spending are. We can produce more, we can have higher average yields and people can have a higher standard. That's why we think it's bad that the government hasn't accepted this amendment, and I think this is a big and good subject and the sooner we go this way, the sooner we can solve these financial problems that we're facing these days and we're discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20461	Thank you. Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20462	You weren't in the O.R. when I explained to one of your colleagues why we didn't accept it, because we have $400 million in budget rebalancing, an additional government loan guarantee to Abu Dhabi's Development Bank, of which more than half of which will go exactly for irrigation, which is significantly, significantly more than what's been reduced by the director. So, some of the capital expenditures, we were generally forced to reduce the budget and replace the capital expenditure that will be financed not directly from the budget, but from favourable loans. Otherwise, I would single out, as a very constructive one of your exposure sentences, that the state in Serbia's public finances is only possible to improve one step at a time. That's the living truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20463	Thank you. Dusan Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20464	We didn't understand each other, Mr. Minister. So here are five million euros for projects. That 400m euros if he comes, there's nothing to spend it on, so we're going to irrigate, like with roads. No expropriation, no projects, then those who win in tenders sue us for not valid documentation five million euros to start designing immediately as soon as budget rebalancing is adopted. I asked around about no projects. There are no projects for the new 100,000 acres of land. That's how much it can be projected this year. The tender procedure can begin immediately after the 2014 budget is adopted. In late February, early March when the construction season began, the work could begin. The issue is not whether you will find 200m euros, or give Arabs 200m euros or 400m euros, no one will be able to spend a penny next year unless the projects are completed. That's why we put this amendment on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20465	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I read this amendment carefully and when I listen to Mr Petrovic and look at and read the amendment somehow I didn't bring it into a relationship and I didn't see the intention of transferring the funds to agriculture, if I read it correctly. As for the benefits of counseling. Of them 1,700 last year, the only benefit, in my opinion, was the party Mr. Petrovic was in. So, as someone who's been farming, of those tens that would burn on my municipality, counselors, I haven't seen any. Interestingly, counselors appeared in the pre-election year. So, they were gone in 2011, they weren't there in 2010, they weren't there in 2009, but that's why they showed up in 2012 and that's 1,700. Except for the cost that was a couple of billion of us some great direct benefits we haven't seen. As for the crowds in the vault, they were last year as well as these. Last year, the way the subsidies changed three times. So the advisers themselves did not know what kind of agricultural policy the Ministry of Agriculture was running. It was going to be per kilogram, they were previously per hectare, so it was changed per kilogram, and then it was said that the benefits would be lower in Serbia because the subsidies went in favour of large agricultural holdings in Vojvodina, and the transfer to kilograms would benefit from agricultural holdings in Serbia, although I don't like to say so. However, my remark was quite the opposite, that this per kilogram goes just in favour of the Vojvodinan businessmen because the yields, of course, are far larger than Serbia because of the more fertile land of certain cultures. They were particularly tempting, for example, incentivising sugar-tail subsidies, etc., whatever the tycoons are dealing with. Since agricultural producers have rebelled, and you have witnessed several days of blockades, this way of subsidisation has been changed very quickly so that these advisers themselves, regardless of what they paid from the budget, did not know at the moment which way of subsidisation would apply, whether the one per hectare, whether the one per kilogram, and again per hectare, so that they themselves were wandering and seeking the answer from the farmers who were supposed to be on their side of the counseling. I think it was primarily the support of the party who lost the election, so, through those 1,700 advisors, a few hundred or almost 1,000 or maybe all 1,700 members or supporters of that party who, of course, appreciated in the elections that six months seemed to have given me benefits for advice that, I admit, no matter what we were processing several hundred acres of land, so renting, paying the state, and I didn't see anything on my agricultural land. I don't know what the results of these advisers were in the rest of Serbia, but there was no support for the bay systems or for the ministry or advisers. So there was simply no funds and I respect that. I have to say about that ex-post mind. I love it when fellow MPs admit their error even after the term of office, so about each of us, and our political history is full of it and has a plan for my term, etc. So I like it when our mandate passes, so we regain some knowledge and experience and we say – we advocate to rebuild, rebuild and rebuild or rebuild the bay systems that are becoming less and less in Serbia, and it is said that from the age of five, three or four will be dried. The only truth in all this is that from 2000 to 2013, the only water system that worked in Serbia was a flood.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20467	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20468	Just to tell you what you asked, in the Abu Dhabi Development Fund's loan, that money is meant to be used for the construction of the canal and for the cost of designing. So the idea is, some projects already exist. You're right about very little, for maybe 25,000 acres, and for 100,000 certainly don't exist, you're right. For what exists, it could be done immediately, and for what does not exist, it has to be projected. We predicted that there would be one item in the loan, that the credit could cover the costs of the design, not just the performance of the works, so that it would finance the design of a network of irrigation channels that would be carried out in the coming years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20469	Dusan Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20470	Now the SNS is headed by the Ministry of Agriculture, so there is no Mr. Risticevic for these agronomists to be abused. I don't mind everyone entering the SNS just to help the villagers. You have a chance, if you were afraid that they were in a party, I really wouldn't have any objection, that each of them would agree to become a member of your party, just to help out for 400,000 landlords, they'd be better off. I really think that you are a skilled and good farmer, you may not need counselors, but hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia have shown a very serious approach and a good attitude towards the experts who helped them. I found the state of affairs that 84,000 landowners were receiving subsidies, at the end of last year, 240,000 landowners were receiving subsidies. I'm telling you because I know that, it wasn't possible to get to 240,000 without people having the help of the state, the help of the counselors. It's completely out of your mind, what politics, what coppers. There were people from the Radical Party, chairman of the DSS Committee, all of whom passed the test, who passed the test, who got the job. Everyone who wanted to work, finished Agriculture College, passed the tests, all the state hired. I really don't think there's room for demagogy here and I respect your skill, Mr. Risticevic. You don't need help, because you're a big agricultural producer, so let these small farmers go, make them better and make them some money. You're not the only ones who can make money.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20471	For a moment, Marijan Risticevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20472	I tried to understand the former Minister of Agriculture, but with, uh, I don't know how much effort, I couldn't do it. Are you saying you didn't change agricultural policy three times last year? Yes, it is. I already explained that. Do you claim that you did not hire these advisors in the pre-election year, that they were in 2011 etc. The fact that I'm in agriculture, the fact that you're a lawyer, that doesn't change things. I've warned you several times as a minister about the warehouse problem. You didn't do anything about it until you had the minister's mandate. I warned you of the subsidies obtained for the vineyards, which do not exist, you have done nothing. You simply tried to correct the impression in the pre-election year, but it's broken. You're saying that the advisors had the effects, that agricultural production, thanks to them, was increased. I argue that agricultural production in 2012 was lower, not only thanks to advisers, but also to the drought in Serbia. So all of your arguments you tried to make are not valid. The fact that we gave up our advisors doesn't say anything bad, because no one asked them to enter our party, they're simply in a certain way fired, so that the two billion-dollar money can be transferred to agricultural production, so that they don't get advisors who don't serve anything. If you think that agricultural production was promoted last year, you're wrong, if you think you've created gulf systems, you haven't. If you think you've distributed the premiums and subsidies correctly, you haven't. If you think you've solved the storage problem, you haven't, and that's where that aflatoxin affair came from. Therefore, it would not help us counselors to avoid this aflatoxin affair, since your former party friend launched the affair, above all to damage agricultural production and agricultural producers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20473	Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20474	Thank you. Mr. Petrovich, I think we're out of time when...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20475	Don't just speak directly to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20476	... Since it's a replica, please. I hope we've come out of a time when business in the state structure, the local community, any municipality, public enterprises, the city, should not be given a sign of equality with membership in any party. I say very responsibly that if I understand the previous speaker correctly, I don't mean Mr. Risticevic, I don't mean that way to trade with anyone. We have the interest of anyone who can help people who are engaged in agricultural production in Serbia, anywhere, to be professionals, to do their job, without political and party belongings. On the other hand, the SNS is the most important, the biggest party and we are not running away from it, the most responsible party in this government, we are also responsible for the functioning of the Ministry of Agriculture. I think that Mr. Knezevic is very responsible for doing his job, and it is good that we have passed the Law on measures of incentives in agriculture and rural development, it is good that it is now a matter of law, not regulation, not pressure, and not as in some previous period when agricultural producers came to us by tractors and blocked Belgrade to achieve some of their rights, now they are entering a new year and they know what they can expect. I am not happy that this year it will be at 4.1 or 4.2% of the budget, but I hope that as of 2014, as the law has ordered and said, it will be 5% of the republican budget. I think we speak a similar language, I just don't want the party's membership to be directed and put in a sign of equality with the help these people are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20477	Thank you. The word is Dusan Petrovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20478	Mr. Babic, you certainly understand that I was ironic because I've heard here several times already that it was part of an election campaign and that members, I don't know which parties, have begun to consult. Once again, there's nothing to do with life. Anyone who graduated from the agricultural college, who applied, who was unemployed, registered as unemployed and who passed the test, was hired by the state. We didn't know if anyone was in the party, or if they weren't in the party, it's a completely deplaced thing. I said what I said. You realize that's not a suggestion, nor do I think it will be, nor should it be. As for irrigation, last year we started to sort out an existing channel network, which hasn't been fixed in decades. Less, more, 64,000 acres of land now ends. It's all costing 10m euros and I think we've done a very good and very big job. I, however, don't know if it's come to every single one of them and whether it's every one of them by the canal, or not by the canal, but the sooner we get into the creation of a new channel network, the sooner all agricultural producers will have the opportunity to become users of this civilization's achievement. Everything else, I don't think it's worth it. This isn't where we're going to have a debate about things that have absolutely nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20479	Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20480	Just to be exact. I was talking about the current time and that professionalization. Not about the past tense and the lack of interest of the SNS to engage anyone in this way. What happened in the past tense, I don't know. To argue, I must have clear evidence. There are insinuations, there are some things, some citizens on this, or the past, or all the future choices on that make the best assessment. The SNS is for professionalisation and we will never make such a kind of rotten compromise, and on the means that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not expand and create a party infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20481	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20482	I would return to the amendment and its essence, because by supporting this amendment we also support our policy towards Serbian agriculture. I will say why, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, it is necessary to adopt this amendment. I think the education of farmers is one of the main and most important preconditions for restoring Serbian agriculture. Education, in general, about the EU and the essence of our efforts to be an EU member, I think it is necessary at all levels, and even many who talk about Europe, and they have no idea what it really means. So far, the country in the recent and distant past has, in various ways and helped and helped farmers, but what is an appeal that we daily get from agricultural producers that they, not only with this government, but with all previous governments, are not fully satisfied, nor are they, above all, the comprehensiveness and height of the subsidies that are determined under the Agricultural Encouragement Act. The government promised that in March in the National Assembly there would be a law on cooperatives, which would, among other things, regulate the area of agricultural cooperatives that are liquids, which have been in existence in Serbia since 1896 and an essential item for the functioning of agriculture, but there is still no such thing. Farmers believe that agriculture is on the extremity and on their knees, it is also an assessment of our parliamentary group, and it seems to us that education is a factor of one, a basic prerequisite for further State interventions, because, here from all parliamentary groups, appeals come because of the catastrophic demographic situation, because of the emptying of the village, which threatens not only the number of the population, but also the country's economy, the security of the country, etc., and it seems that the state must have hearing for every measure to help farmers, rather than selectively assessing the political elite on the basis of political assessments, and not an assessment based on some scientific basis, whether it is necessary in one way or another to help farmers. I'll just give you a few examples. Indeed, there are farmers who have come to understand the trends in European agricultural policy in time. For example, from Ritopek to Belgrade, many fruit farmers go to world fairs on their own, engage in counselling, hire experts, are large producers, but believe me that 90% of farmers today do not even know the basic rights that belong to them under the Law on the Encouragement of Agriculture and by a series of regulations, without talking about the difficult material state. They're simply fighting for survival, they don't have any material resources, and they don't have that internal self-educated impulse. So, I think it's still the state's task. Here, one of the other big fruit producers in the village of Vinca near Topola, they were lucky that 30 years ago, a famous expert literally went from house to house, educated his countrymen, and they eventually started what was supposed to be the task of the state back then. If it is not done then and now, I think the state must take seriously the poor position of Serbian agriculture and in a number of other ways to accept this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20483	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20484	Thank you. I wanted to simply, this discussion really caused me to say that I do not fully agree with this amendment, what about irrigation in order, and as far as hiring these agronoms, that in no way in this way, because the witnesses we were, I would agree with one of the previous speakers, that it was a purely political move of the party that she endured and the one who defended this amendment was a member before. At the time of DS's greatest terror over all those local self-governments, where they were not in power by their co-workers, in which this activity was realised, by the president of the DS municipal board leading the educators of this agronomist from the local community to the local community, without any communication, contact and relationship with local self-government, with institutions established by local self-government for the development of agriculture. So it's a total non-coordination. Such ad hoc activities in the area of agriculture, as they happened, just to get political points, we really don't need them, and I don't think that in this way, in the threat of agriculture, we can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20485	Thank you. The word is Dusan Petrovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20486	I'm just gonna say one thing. One of the people who was hired last year and who, now a colleague says, were exposed to what abuse, became recently an assistant minister of agriculture. So, once again, I'm going to say, the current Minister of Agriculture, of course, and no one was chosen to have such a political background, we didn't know who was where, or who we asked, and that education and selection were done by teachers of Belgrade and New Sad Agriculture College. I didn't get involved in what kind of program their teachers prepared for anything, nor did I allow anyone to influence the ranking of counselors, and it's known for sure that there have been attempts, as there has always been when it comes to public affairs, and I think that in one fair and good way we gave people a chance to work, and I agree. Here, it's up to the citizens that all of these estimates and those who were users of their services, whether they were satisfied or dissatisfied, I'm sure that much more of those who think it's a good thing than it is a bad thing, and everything else, of course, is a matter of political competition, I have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20487	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've read this amendment for the fifth time and I don't see any connection between this amendment and the counselors, maybe I'm not a lawyer, maybe I can't read this amendment well enough. When I look here, it says -- the Republic of Serbia's 511-building water budget fund and construction facilities. Maybe I'm not writing enough. I may have to go to law school, but as far as I can tell, this has nothing to do with counselors who are hired or not engaged. So, I didn't write this amendment, I just read it, and I concluded that the discussions that are being conducted and what it says in the amendment are not simply consistent with each other. It also says it is the Republic of Serbia's budget water fund, but 511 is a building and construction facility. These aren't bay systems. As far as I can see, buildings and construction facilities can't be gulf systems. These could be some buildings that will be some substations, stations, etc. There may be some water-processing facilities, but I don't see any gulf systems being used by agricultural producers. I've seen a lot of things since the last regime. I also saw that the resources for the bay systems were shared by companies that had no land, by natural persons who owned these companies that also had no land, where there was no water potential to create such gulf systems, but this time someone is trying to represent the building and construction facilities as gulf systems, as funds used by consultants. It's simple, and I'm asking the minister to remove that dilemma from me, I keep reading this amendment ten times in the list, to see if I didn't make a mistake, but this has nothing to do with agriculture, nothing to do with bay systems, nothing to do with counselors. So, the amendment is a great honor. He's predicting some savings. In the first part, I could vote to save a billion and something, to make the state as cheap as possible, and in this second part to transfer it to the building and construction facilities for the Budgetal Water Fund of the Republic of Serbia. I couldn't vote for that. So, for the sake of saving, I'd be happy to vote for this amendment to save, to have as cheap a state as possible, to get out of the economy as much as possible, so, by doing so, I really don't see any, let someone remove my dilemma, not see a direct link between advisors, gulf systems, especially those bay systems that they give to companies that don't have land, where there are no water systems, where there's no water potential to build these water systems, and that's how it used to be, and I believe it won't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20489	By amendment Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20490	Mr. Ristichevich...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20491	Please don't address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20492	I will address you as chairman and Mr. Risticevic will be given an explanation. Buildings and construction buildings from two and a half billion to three billion. Construction facilities in water business are flood buildings, irrigation and disposal systems and other construction facilities, such as the construction facility's path, although it's not a building. It's the same thing as a system for draining and irrigation. These five million euros are projected, so in order to build, we have to project first. As far as these other matters are concerned, the services contracted by the agriculture ministry's division from 181 million to a billion and 81 million, advisers if they are hired will be engaged under the labour contracts and therefore, Madam Chairman, to hear Mr. Risticevic, in this section. You don't have to be a lawyer. It's careful enough to read the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20493	Marijan Risticevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20494	I thank you for finally finding out what services Mr. Petrovic is thinking. Services under contract can be diverse. They could be the ones used during the DS. You used to be a minister. Services under contract can also be the following – given for non-existent vineyards, can be given to the former prime minister for the planting of vineyards that already existed, the services under the contract can be pillars and wires carried out in that vineyard even though it was largely planted. There are various services, and I'm grateful that you've made your point. Is that meant by the counselors you said cost you two billion, and now you've been thriftful and now it costs only 900 million? Contracts per piece, your favorite, your favorite items in the former regime, I'm grateful you explained them. Buildings and construction buildings, I didn't know they were bay systems. But let some legal terminology be buildings and construction facilities for the construction of bay systems. Just this once I ask that money when it's paid to see these gulf systems, so that there's no money divided, there's no gulf systems and there's no river nearby, there's nothing, there's just money paid between the two rounds of the election. I don't want to deal with it, and we've found a lot of bay systems that don't exist. We found vineyards for which the state gave 2m euros during which the ministers were from the DS, which are not available. I'm just going to give you an example of PP Erdewic. We encountered many items of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget where that money went most likely to sympathisers and those who were as close to the fire as possible, so they warmed up. At least that money for the warehouse, the machinery, the vineyards, the wine plantations. Look at the miracles, the former prime minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20495	Time. Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20496	I didn't quite understand the reasons for these amendments, but I clearly understood the call to the DS account because of some alleged malpractice in the allocation of some loans. I must point out, although Mr Dusan Petrovic is not in the O.R., that no one from the DS has ever submitted falsified documentation to obtain credit, nor has he forged the District Court seal in Valjev to take credit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20497	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20498	It's a clear argument. For the truth. That doesn't look like DS. Who was close to the fire and warmed himself up best when he came home and looked at the falsified seal drawer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20499	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Risticevic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20500	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if the previous speaker did it, whether he advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and on what basis he was speaking. I'm advertising Article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. No direct address is allowed at the National Assembly session, etc. With regard to Article 106, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I don't know which time some alluding gentleman was allowed to talk to me about some forgeries, etc. I call again on him to do so and to call the name and last name outside of the Assembly address so that other legal measures can be taken. He persistently violates the Rules of Procedure tries, pushes through, etc. I could say so much about hurting the Rules of Procedure what the gentleman did, so I could ask how it was at the wedding with the prosecutor, Miljko Radisavljevic, what they agreed on, and what companies he was recruiting. If we go like this, we'll go far. Not wanting to violate the Rules of Procedure, I beg you, in the future, when an MP reports that we know on what basis he has come forward. If he reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then let him talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not alluding to some alleged crime that most likely tries to artificially attribute to me. Once again, I call upon him to show that mouse his courage, since he is a mountain saviour who has found no one, to show his courage, to come out of this room, and he says that somewhere in a place where he can answer for the words he has spoken. This way the congregation speaker can say anything. I'm used to it already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20501	Just to tell you, Mr. Milivojevic was not given the right to speak on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but to speak about the amendment. After my warning, Mr. Milivojevic is finished. Let's move on to the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments together were submitted by the MPs Gorica Mojovic and Biljana Hasanovic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20502	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I must remind myself that, when the draft budget for this year has been considered, MPs have indicated that the budget is unrealistic and that it will not be possible to implement it. We also pointed out this when it was discussed in principle the draft amending and supplementing the budget, i.e. the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law, which we are now considering in particular. With this in mind, we have tried to improve the situation by a certain number of amendments on the basis of the most vulnerable groups of citizens and to help solve the country's most pressing problems in a better way. And this amendment applies to one of those acute problems. In fact, the amendment suggested that it split apart by 23rd. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Chapter 23.7 of the budgetary fund for the forests of the Republic of Serbia, function 420 agriculture, forestry, hunting and fishing, economic classification 451, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations in column 9 No 510,000,000, i.e. the amount of 510,000,000, replaced by 910,000,000, i.e. the amount of 910,000,000, i.e. we proposed that the position be increased by 400,000. I must remind you that in the basic text of the budget in that position, 810,000,000 were foreseen. This 910.000,000 figure, which we are predicting, we have not come up with an ominous method, but we have identified experts who have studied how much it takes to obtain the means to treat and conduct treatment of forests and orchards in endangered areas and we have come to that number. That is why we have proposed such a change of budget. I must again point out that forests as a natural resource are significant productive, economic and ecological potentials. The importance of forests with various aspects is written all over the planet, and I will not hold on to it now, but I will say that in Serbia there are 2,422,200 hectares of land, that in Serbia the noise is close to the global average, or that it is about 30%, but that it is significantly below the European average and that in European countries there is a forestiness of 46%. That is why the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia envisions an increase in noise by 2050 to 41%. It's a long process and it takes a long time to realize this. That's why you can't wait until next year, or next month, and you need to start working on this right away. One of the problems that occurred last year and last year is a leper. The leper is one of the greatest pests for forests and is characterized by great reproductive power. The damage from the lepers is double, direct, loss of leaf mass and indirect caused by the diet of caterpillars that lead to loss of growth, the absence of fertility and physiological weakness and the drying of trees, as well as the creation of favourable conditions for the attack of mushrooms and insects. As a result, the leper attacks in the woods lead to a decrease in growth, while fruit groves bring down yields. Every new nudist, i.e. a leper attack, is causing greater losses in growth in greater size than the previous one. The damage to fruit production caused by the mass periodic appearance of leprosy is measured in hundreds of millions of dinars. Graduations of lepers last three to six years. The state of the population of lepers in central Serbia suggests that this pest has spread to a large area and that in some regions the number in 2013 has reached a culmination stage. That's why we tabled this amendment. In favour of accepting this amendment, the answer that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management provided to our colleague, Ivan Karic, on his question, on what was taken to combat the unremembered load of lepers at Negotina in Timočko Krajina. In response, the Ministry of Agriculture said that in 2012 the number of plant pests and plant diseases was really increased, especially the leper insect, and that therefore a special working group was formed on 9 January this year to monitor the graduation of a harmful leper insect. At first, mechanical fighting methods were applied, however in the development phase, when it is in the caterpillar phase, there are no more mechanical methods to be applied. Air treatment should be applied. This year, it remained, first, because the lack of funds could not provide funds, and when the reduced funds were provided just to stop the spread of the infection, then, as a result, we asked that the budget for this year would provide for the necessary means of treatment so as not to say again next year in the spring – we cannot treat it because it is too late, while implementing public procurement, there is no means. Minister, you yourself said that anti-urban missiles are not purchased in the middle of the summer, but that they are purchased in the winter and in the spring. We also believe that funds should be provided in the budget, that funds for the treatment of lepers are obtained in time, by the end of this year, so that they can start treatment in the spring. However, the government's relationship to environmental protection, including forests and orchards, is seen not only from the removal of the environmental and agency funds covering this area, but also from the response given why this amendment is being rejected. It only states that the position from which funds are intended to be transferred to a leper protection position, that the funds from that position have been spent in advance, or that commitments have been made in advance for the entire amount of funds. Not one word mentions the problem of the treatment of forests and the protection of forests and orchards. It's like it doesn't matter at all. If there were any good will, we could sit down and talk, let's see, because I can't know in advance what positions are pre-occupied and pre-loaded with already accepted obligations. We could find some kind of resource tank and move to this position to protect our environment for future generations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20503	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20504	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'll just look back on this sentence that you reject this amendment to our colleague. It is said in the last paragraph that this amendment is rejected for the reason that the remaining funds are necessary for the reconciliation of commitments undertaken. So they already exist. I'm interested in whether the competent minister, Mr Goran Knezevic, has done his best to explain how much of the monster he is in eastern Serbia when it comes to lepers? Did he bring out everything the Institute of Forestry says, then "Serbishum", then the Gerdap National Park? I'm sure you're familiar with the problems that a leper creates in the territory of eastern Serbia, so that you too, from 810 to 510, will increase to 910. I'm just going to name what the Institute of Forestry said in March. At the time, he recommended the suppression of the intensity of the attack and suggested the use of biological, or biotechnical preparations by the method of aviation treatment in the spring of 2013, while the leper is still at the stage of the eggbeds. Unless the proposed measures are implemented during May and June, it should be expected that the leaf mass will be significantly damaged on large surfaces and the appearance of total leaf destruction is real. Estimates were made, so it is assumed that in May the damage was at half a million euros. Usually damage is done at the end of the fall, when a leper passes his life span in this period. The team forest in Zaječar says – the lepers have moved from the forest to the orchards, to corn, to vineyards, to meadows, to gardens and to the courtyard houses. It was in the plan and the air treatment program for the leper. However, the budget that was to be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget has not been provided in a timely manner. That's what the men of the team woods in Zajecar said. The Majdanpek Forest Administration says – next year a more intense attack by the leper, this measure will be an obligation to prevent significant natural disasters. It's meant to be a plane treatment. So now I'm asking if the minister in charge was convincing enough to find in one of the sections of this budget rebalance of the missing, say, 400 million dinars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20505	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20506	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want this argument made by my colleagues to spread, but I have one question. Since the explanation says that it is impossible to reroute part of the funds from these positions for these purposes, I would ask the Minister of Finance, I believe that he, all of what is related to agriculture and through other resistors, may not be able to give the right answers, he said – we did not get a request for anti-building missiles, we did not get a request for this, we did not know that it would be so, so we did not single the funds. But he will certainly know how to answer me – how he can't do it from position 6.2.1. The finance ministry has to concentrate some of the funds for this purpose because, among other things, it says that these funds will be intended for investments of particular importance? I'm in culture, and I've only heard of events of special importance, and I'm not interested in economic investment. Since there are the largest number of items here, i.e. the explanation contains that all these 7,430,000,000 will be distributed under a special government act, I can understand that, but I cannot understand what investments are in the area of finance and economy of particular importance for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20507	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The amendments were submitted together by MPs Aleksandar Senic and Ljuban Panic to Sections 16, 23 and 29. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vladimir Gordić and Mr. Živojin Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Milisavljevic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20508	Your Honor, a few days ago in this house, I raised the question of financing our children's health and treating our citizens. At the time, I said that the budget should not be restrictive for the treatment of our citizens, that Serbia's health should not be spared. I repeat that every month, because we have a lot of problems in the health sector. Our health care is on its knees, our health care is in a knockout that we can't get up from. But what is a priority must certainly be the treatment of children and I, believe it or not, I only took the item of the Ministry of Finance, since I saw the most money here which, in my opinion, is not well camouflaged, and then writes the item – services per contract, so it writes the item – specialized services, so it writes – subsidies to non-financial enterprises, and then writes – purchase of domestic financial assets. I, through these amendments, have found resources that I want to reroute to the Ministry of Health so that children suffering from rare diseases can finally be completely covered. As President of the Assembly, you have shown good will to help treat children. I thought it would be the same thing by the Republic government and by the finance minister, to finally solve the problem of treating children from rare diseases. They're full of politicians who say -- we've solved the problem, nobody's ever funded it before, we've solved the problem of financing children's treatment from rare diseases. I'm telling you from this place that's not true, only ten kids are covered in therapy. The other kids aren't covered with treatment from rare diseases. This is expensive therapy, but this therapy must be available to children who suffer from rare diseases. Right now, we have ten kids that are covered, and we have ten kids that aren't covered. We have a total of 60 Serbian citizens suffering from severe, rare diseases, of which only ten children are practically covered. So 50 citizens aren't covered. I have to tell you as a person who is a member of the Organizational Committee of Rare Diseases Congress, that we have to talk about this subject and that we finally have to solve this. I found items in Mr Dinkic's budget, from his ministry, and I rerouted the children's treatment for rare diseases. The amount of money at the annual level is 4m euros. That amount of money is foreseen by the resolution ministry for a million and six. So I took the supplement from the items, as I said, from the Ministry of Finance, favors by contract. I don't think it would take that much money to pay for the contract, but to transfer those funds to fund the treatment of children suffering from rare diseases. The other thing I downloaded from the finance ministry is the funds that should be transferred to the republican fund to organise the treatment and sending children to a heart transplant abroad. It's unacceptable more to just watch children and parents begging in the streets where they're forced to lead their children, to show that these children are really sick, so that someone can give them money. It's something that's inadmissible. Two days ago, I said the basic constitutional right of Serbian citizens to be treated. Unless there are conditions in the Republic of Serbia for the child to be cured, funds must be provided for the child to be sent to a reference clinic and operated there. I offered a solution, I made an appointment to the Health and Family Committee, which was both the fund manager and the health minister, and then we agreed that we would solve the problem. The deadline is July 15th. But I ask - what children to do until July 15th, which we also heard from MP Đurić, we have heard from some well-intentioned people in this House, what they will wait until that great day, July 15th, when we need to get the information the assembly asked for by the Ministry of Health and the Republic Fund. So there are funds. With this amendment, I withdrew funds from the Ministry of Finance according to the item – subsidies to public non-financial enterprises. I think our children's lives are much more important than funding some non-functional enterprises, which have no profit, but a struggle for life. The third item is the purchase of an air therapy machine. We are witnessing that waiting lists have become one big fashion in Serbia. I call those waiting lists potential corruption lists and I believe that the lists through which corruption is carried out in health care. Many lists have been made artificially, but I am horrified to see that citizens of Serbia who suffer from malignancies have to wait for more than two, three months to get their turn for air therapy in Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac. We can't let that happen. I found the same funds in Mr Dinkic's budget, rerouted them on purpose under the article – the purchase of domestic financial assets. What is the purchase of domestic financial assets, if not buying medical devices that would reduce, or destroy waiting lists for air therapy. Here, a few things. You can't say there's no money. There's money, there's just got to be good will to solve the problem. You refused this amendment, but I have no intention of stopping. I will continue to insist and talk about this because these people, in the previous report, I said, parents who guard children who suffer from rare diseases, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, you are at least active on Twitter, unlike many of your colleagues, those people on Twitter, those parents who fight for their children's lives, registered as "invisible people". They were registered that way and they're called Twitter because you don't see them. Let's try to see them all, let's try to cure those kids, not say, there's no money. There's no money for this, there's no money for that, and there's all kinds of things that aren't needed. The most important thing for Serbia is to ensure that its citizens are treated. I won't stop. I'll always fight through the DS Parliament Club to point to this. When you say – you cannot solve the problem, the problem can be solved, but there is no good will. If there was a good will, these three girls waiting for a heart transplant would be able to get rid of them by little means. When there is a good will, like ten years ago in the Republic of Serbia, the problem was the bone marrow transplant for our children, then there was a solution, so in Padova we made a state contract with a hospital in Padova, so our children had a benefit price at which they were sent for bone marrow transplantation and the program lived for ten years. Why doesn't one of those scientists at your departments and the Republic Fund get on a plane and go to Padovo, go to Zurich, go to London, make a deal with one of the hospitals, that the children we have to send for heart transplants, we don't do that? I repeat and finish, all it takes is goodwill. Don't get away with no money. On the items in your ministry budget, I found funds that could solve all these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20509	Thank you. I'm just obliged to give you one piece of information, right this way. I support, of course, everything that the entire National Assembly does and all the people who advocate this. Today, the people in my cabinet spoke to the Secretariat of Legislative Affairs, and we are looking for the best legal framework to deal with this systematically. I think we'll soon, very soon have one quality solution. Of course, I'll invite you to participate, since it's important to me that it be done as seriously as possible. Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20510	When we talk about will, come on, give us information, so let's see if it's will or money. How much money does it take to literally have all the children in Serbia, in one year, who have a rare disease and who should go to these complicated operations abroad, to literally have for everyone, not just one, for the other, for the fifth, for someone who eventually has a more aggressive approach and in the media knows some journalists, so his accident is heard? Indeed, there is no partial access here. Here or she has to get rid of everything equally, and that kid that his parents can never get to a reporter and turn public attention to the problem. You're the president of the Committee. Please, give me the exact information, how much money does it take to solve the complete problem of treating all people in Serbia, not just children, who have a rare disease and who must, as you say, have a rare disease, your jargon, I don't know if that's the exact expression, how much should Serbia single out annually for everyone, in all cities, in all municipalities, from the smallest village to the city? I'm asking for that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20511	Replica, Mr. Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20512	I assume you expected to confuse me with this question of yours. I wouldn't be insecure to sit around and talk here. I speak on behalf of the Children's Parents' Association who suffer from rare diseases. I said I was a member of the National Congress Organizing Committee to discuss rare diseases, to make these children visible. If you haven't read my amendments to some of your items in your budget, it takes four million euros per year to solve the problem of treating children from rare diseases. Another thing you haven't asked me, and that's -- how do you solve paying for a heart transplant in Europe? I'm telling you, the operation of little Tijana in Houston of a million and a few euros is not a real price. That's some market price the Americans were looking to exploit that little girl's problem. The price ranges from 80,000 to 100,000 euros for heart transplants. If you make an interstate contract with a state between the two ministries, if you make a contract between the two hospitals, that price will be significantly lower. More importantly, imagine parents who get a diagnosis from their child that the child is going to die, that they have to ask for money and have to look for a clinic. That's what the state has to do. I welcome the efforts of the President of the Assembly. I think we understand each other from the beginning. So all it takes is goodwill. When there's a good will, we can solve the problem. That's not an insurmountable problem. It's just a wish to distract - no matter what I care, it's not my child. They're our children. I gave the numbers for rare diseases. Make it possible for four million from your ministry, I've set you up with the exact items, transfer them to the Health Ministry at the Rare Diseases Fund. I told you the same thing about heart transplants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20513	Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20514	Don't applaud because this isn't a applause topic, this is a serious topic. I repeat again. Don't deal with politics on this subject, I told you that in principle. Tell me exactly, as chairman of the board, as a doctor, how many people have problems like this in Serbia, not just children, our children are certainly the most important, but all people who could possibly be saved by these operations and see how much it costs. If for little Tijana, which you mentioned, it took a million euros or something a little bit more, is there tens of them, hundreds or thousands or tens of thousands? How many such people are in Serbia? If it's a thousand people, it's a billion euros a year. We need to know if this is about will or whether it's about this. Since this obviously exceeds your possibilities, personally, let the people who do the profession sit down, let them calculate what kind of fund that should be. Here, when it comes to disease, there must be really no discrimination, no privilege. Or that all our citizens can have as a possibility, if that happens to them, or indeed, even though it's a very difficult question, why have only some and others not to. Let's see how much it really costs. I'd be happy if it only cost four million euros. There's no reason to take it off one, the other, the third, you'd get it out right away, that's how much we have, at least from the current reserve. Unfortunately, I'm sure that doesn't solve the problem. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20515	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20516	Article 107. Rules of Procedure. This is always a sensitive subject, I agree with that. I accept all the objections that sometimes exist, that this topic is being abused. I haven't noticed it in the past part of this debate, but there's one thing that I think is hurting the dignity of the National Assembly and that it needs to be avoided. I believe Mr. Milisavljevic didn't do it on purpose, but I don't think it should be said in a way that the price of intervention in America was due to someone's desire to abuse a difficult situation or to earn it. There are a thousand factors that have determined what the price is and one of them is, among other things, what has been waiting for years. These are the problems of the Serbian internal organisation of the health system. I deeply believe, knowing one of those children, that they wouldn't even come into such a difficult health situation, and then the situation that it costs so much to deal with someone here for years more seriously. I don't think we're going to achieve anything by looking at this problem in such a way as to think that someone is earning or not earning money. The risks were huge. It was the only facility at that time that was willing to offer that kind of intervention and that's why it costs so much. There's no conspiracy, and there doesn't seem to be, to me, the ambition of anyone to make a market profit, as you say, and even if there is, I think the greater benefit of the intervention being done, but that remark that I really don't understand what it would serve. If you open it, then each of these questions will be asked again how much it costs and whether it is misused or overcharged. I don't think that's the way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20517	Not wanting to be a lawyer for Dr. Milisavljevic, I interpreted that he was not going to say anything offensive, but he just wanted to say that the price might have been lower and that the Republic had become more engaged. That's how I interpreted his words. That is why I believe that nothing has been done that would hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. Of course, if you insist, we can make that clear. No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20518	Since you're looking for accurate data, I've just given you accurate data on the treatment of children from rare diseases. I'll keep going and I'll tell you, it's not bad for the public to hear that our little kids are suffering from Pompe disease, Fabri's disease, Gossa's disease, from MPS mucopolysaccharidosis type I and type II. These people have 60 with these severe diseases, of which twenty children, and only ten children are covered with therapy. That's official information for you. If you want, you can also get this from the Institute for Mother and Child and you can get from the organization of parents of children who suffer from rare diseases. What few people know is that nearly 400,000 people in Serbia have some kind of rare disease, but not as dangerous as those who threaten life. That's why, if we found money for ten kids to take care of, we've got 10 other kids suffering from rare diseases, I've also listed guys, kids from Gossa's disease are currently covered. What's for children of MPS disease one or type two? What about "Batten's Disease"? I repeat, all it takes is goodwill. You've been trying, but you've been in politics longer, and you're a more experienced politician than I am, to get me into some jumps. I'm just telling you the information that sick people give me. I'm here as a doctor, not as a politician, and I'm absolutely not interested in political points. This is a fight for these people's lives and there's no excuse. That's why I'm with some people, and I don't understand someone, and I thank the President of the Assembly this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20519	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20520	If it's only 60 children in all of Serbia, if that's what you're saying, the Health Fund certainly has money to cover it up. The Health Fund has seven, eight billion dinars in the first six months. If it's just 60 children, because what you're saying, four million euros is about 400 million dinars. I'm not sure that's the correct information. When you take all those people who need it, I'm sure it's a far, far larger number. I can't imagine those who ran the fund five, ten, 15 years ago wouldn't have solved this if it were just a matter of goodwill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20521	The word is Snezana Stojanović Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20522	I'm just going to say for a little while that I think this debate is not only painful but, unfortunately, I think it's a little bit and unserious. In fact, if my position were to be at stake, if there was only one chance to save one in Serbia, or one human life, I would be willing to sacrifice the entire budget of the ministry of any kind -- agriculture, economy, local self-government, whatever. Life is above all else. It seems to me that in this debate, the finance minister cannot be a health minister and the chairman of the Health Committee cannot be a health minister. He, of course, with the health minister, the chairman of the Health Committee, should also be with the national competent commission to find a solution. It's a matter of health policy. The finance minister can't run a health policy here right now and say, yes, we will, we won't. I really appeal to my colleagues and to all of us, who are interested in this issue, to find a solution together with the Minister of Health. I'm sure there'll be a solution then, and I'm sure the money in the budget will be found for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20523	The word is Mrs Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20524	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I support the amendment of my colleagues, but I must say that the explanation that we have received and the even more reason we have had to hear exactly from Mr. Mladjan Dinkic is not only worthy of this Assembly, but it is not decent and it does not answer the nature or weight of this issue. I don't think the first argument is that the first reason for his argument is that this is where politics is being conducted. I don't think anyone's running politics on this issue. That's one thing. Another thing, you can't say – I'm looking for information about everyone, about those in the village, about those in the cities. What does that mean? It's all of them, or no one. I just agree with Mrs Plassic, if it is only one life and if there is a possibility, especially when it comes to children, it is not necessary, it is only for me politicisation and demagogy – either everyone, or no one, on these issues – either everyone, or no one. On these issues, especially when it comes to children, each and every child, and every human life is important. Especially not if it's just 60 kids. It's not just that, it's a terrible lot of kids. So I guess this auctioning, too, whether the Health Fund, could have been before, could I today, whether the finance minister should know – that all, I say, is not going, is not speaking rightly about what is a big problem. The problem exists and the problem can be solved by means of means. What I would like to appeal is that this discussion, which has been led so far, in terms of the arguments we have heard from Mr. Secretary, we will stop and find a solution for both 60 and one, and for two children, and for all those who have these serious diseases, find money and that problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20525	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20526	You can't tell me there's a problem and it can be solved. Why didn't you give this amendment all these years back when Mirko Cvetkovic was Minister of Finance? Why, Gorice Mojovic? Why, if it's so easy to solve, it's not solved when the Fund was run by a director whose name I don't even know, and the DS is setting it up, if it's that easy? Be fair and say that the problem is huge. You have to give money for one life, for a thousand lives, for all. That's the most important thing. It's a waste of money if there's no life. But why didn't you make such amendments and discuss it so hard when your man ran the Treasury Ministry and your man ran the Health Fund? Probably because I've been saying it all along, and what Mrs. Plassic says, which is not easy at all, and I'm sure it depends not only on goodwill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20527	Replica, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20528	Mr. Minister, you've just shown again by talking to me and making arguments like this that you're politicizing this topic. We didn't politicize her. The president of the Health Committee and all other people who have spoken on these topics all these days present facts, present a difficult situation and no one has mentioned politics. You put all this back on—why didn't you solve it? I am not offended by your attack on DS, I am offended by your reasoning – give me information for all the sick, or for everyone, or for anyone, if it is only 60 children, then we will solve it, or we will have a hard time solving it. It insults me. I'm not affected by your attacks on the DS. You were in that government too, and you've had the Minister of Health all these years. All these years. I don't want to do this, and I don't want to participate anymore, because if anyone here is politicizing, that's exactly what you did. Just as a person, as a mother, I was offended by your reasoning – either everyone sick, or no one, or just 60, or all 60, or no one, and if that's just 60, then we'll succeed, if that's just 400 million, then that's not the problem. That's not how you talk about this. That's what offended me, not whether he was a minister or a director of the Republic Health Fund one or the one from a party. We didn't save him, let's save him. It's heavy. We'll get rid of it. That's how you talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20529	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20530	There are some things I can't get rid of on my own free will. Otherwise, I am sure that Tomica Milosavljevic, that the health minister would have dealt with it before him. Which health minister wouldn't want to solve it? I don't understand, because this isn't about politics. I'm saying that whoever's setting up the Minister of Health and the Director of the Fund, the problem in this country isn't solved. My guess as a layman for this is that it's not such a simple problem, as soon as no one has put forward a proposal for that solution. When I asked people why you didn't solve it, of course when I see these actions via SMS or via Twitter, let me ask my colleagues – why not systematically solve it? The answer to everyone I ask in the field of health is – it costs a lot. I don't know, and that's why I was extremely well-intentioned, and I asked, if there's already a solution to the problem, how much does it really cost? We need to know that and then see that if it's possible to get rid of it, get rid of it. How do other countries solve that, our rank? Not America, but how do we handle it? How do other countries of our rank solve that? Not America, but how do we handle it? How does that work out in other countries? Is there more humane solutions? Is there better solutions, so let's do it? I attended the debates or watched on TV that you asked such questions perhaps two, three years, a year and a half ago. You can deny me, if that's true. That's why I think your MP wanted to politicize this, and I'm sure of it, unfortunately. So, it's just that the discussion and yours and his assures me that, no matter what your intentions may be, you still want to politicize this and it's not fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20531	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20532	It seems to me that we've gone too far and this has turned into a pointless debate again. I understand your question, Mr. Dinkic, but I don't think Mr. Milisavljevic can answer you. Maybe he can answer your question about how many kids he has like that, as a doctor. Doctors can't answer your question about how much it costs, because, as you know, it's not just a matter of medicine. It's also a question of some insurance and some market and how many kids you send where and it affects the price. Maybe that's not the way to conduct this discussion. You know what I'm worried about? It's not in the light of this amendment. There's an explanation for the amendment I filed. You're saying -- we're suggesting that a project for the health care of persons suffering from rare diseases has accepted the proposed amount of funding from the Ministry of Health which has proposed funding of its responsibilities. I therefore conclude that the Ministry of Health says that the estimated amount of 130 million dinars is sufficient. That's the problem, Mr. Dinkic, then. If 130 million dinars are enough for 2013, then all children can be treated from that or another source. I'm falling into that group of people who think that these children, or their parents, are someone who pays for health insurance and that maybe there shouldn't even be a special budget fund, but that this problem has to be solved from regular insurance, in a way. There is not much difference between the specific budget fund and the SMS action. It's not a system solution. You're all talking about how a solution will be found by July 15th. We need to adopt before July 15th the budget rebalance in which the Ministry of Health, that's what your ministry wrote, I believe it's not your fault, that you got that information, predicted the amount of 130 million dinars. That won't be enough. It's obviously not enough. Anita Balas, from Shida, as she reached Belgrade, or by the time she got to the media, passed a few years ago, might have intervened cheaper if the system had responded to it. I think that's our biggest problem. That's why it costs so much in the end. The whole system is messy, Mr. Dinkic. When money was somehow found for the last intervention, the question opened and how is it being transported to Houston? And then there is no system solution in this country for that question. That's what other countries have. Who's covering the insurance? So in the end, we come quickly to the fact that someone wants to, someone doesn't want to drive, reject companies, Western companies hate our children, love our children, it's pointless. There are 100 other ways this country can help. What, let's say, the family that's looking for the money today is the most concerned, not whether they're going to raise money, not even how the intervention in America is going to go, but what they're going to do in America for another year and a half as long as they have to be there for control, how they're going to live in that environment. We have a hundred other ways to help these people. We have all kinds of diplomatic and consular representations in America. If you end up only with budget items, we won't solve anything, and I agree that it can't be done by the finance minister and that's not the right question for him. Please answer me as to how you interpret that the Ministry of Health, as I believe a professional authority or someone who is in charge of this, says that a sum of 130 million dinars for the entire 2013 year is sufficient for the treatment, for this programme that they have defined themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20533	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20534	The Honorable Chairman, this debate is a bit of a pain because this is a subject that is painful, above all, for those families in which these children live, but also for all those families who have heart disease these days, so there are no stents in hospitals that need vaccines, and there are no vaccines and many other problems. That is why this debate on this budget rebalancing is incompetent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia because only the finance minister is sitting here and, no matter what I think about its qualifications, it is not enough that in the right way to answer the questions raised by the MPs here, I would say, very serious issues and it is very unreal, incorrect to call it politicisation. So, ask the question to solve the problem of dozens of children suffering from rare diseases or people who need to go abroad for transplants is no politicisation. Any tone to anyone who asks such questions, he must come to an understanding by the minister. There should be a Prime Minister, not because I especially love him and appreciate the work of his government and his ministers, but because it is his duty to be there with you on the day that the budget is discussed, to pass on to his health minister that there is a problem that some MPs, who are politicizing, pose a serious problem, some children who suffer from rare diseases. Perhaps that word of his would mean more to the minister than you're going to say or not to say. Since you have other problems, I'm sure this isn't your only problem. That's why I suggest that your colleagues, who you asked how much it cost, and they said a lot, tell you how much it really cost. Saying a lot by a fellow minister is unprofessional. He has to say -- it costs so much and so many million euros and we cannot finance it from a country like the economy. Perhaps we can finance 5%, symbolically, or 10%, and that would be the answer of the responsible health minister and responsible finance minister and responsible Prime Minister. No, you won't take that question into consideration, you rejected all amendments because the amendments to the opposition are political. It's not that it's, it's that you're incompetent, like the government, to even deal with any issues, even the one that's annoying, as you say. Chairman, please take this time away from the time of the authorised representative. I call on you not to really give lessons to the MPs, once again, to give them epithets, but to try to write it down, so if you can't solve it through this rebalancing, then solve it in some other way, in some session of the government that won't discuss, let's say, reconstruction or some issues that won't solve the problem of these children and people waiting in line to invite them to come and they're in the public procurement process. If, God forbid, one of the bidders complains, those stents will arrive at the end of August. How many people might get hurt for that? It's not an irrelevant question and it's not a small question, it's not a political question. That question lies in the hands of your government. You've passed the Public Procurement Act, you're applying it, and don't call for the work of the previous government. We are now discussing a concrete budget rebalancing and a concrete solution to the issues that are open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20535	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20536	Mr Minister, I will refer to the discussion of December 2012 when we turned the debt of health care institutions towards suppliers into public debt of the Republic of Serbia and when citizens were forced to pay twice the same obligation. A similar law will be on the agenda for the other day and is already in this assembly session. The Minister of Health for all our questions as much as anyone owes, who blamed what debt, etc., didn't have a single answer. She promised the MPs that by the end of 2012, she would have a list of all the debtors. It's never been done. In the first quarter of 2013, the debt was increased by 3.5 billion dinars. The Minister of Health so responsibly reacted sharply that she wrote a sharp letter to all the health care directors. The letter stated that if such a trend continues, even someone might be called to criminal responsibility. What do I want to talk about? About an organized chaos that exists, above all at the Ministry of Health, where there is no telling who blamed the debt, which is why he blamed the debt, which is the height of the debt, and everything is transferred to the burden of the taxpayers. On the other hand, we have a series of cases of abuse of doctors by homes of health, who have prescribed several boxes of drugs beyond the prescribed standard, and here on the other hand we have billions of dinars that go nowhere. That's why it's quite logical, just like the other day when I asked the prime minister a question, and today, colleagues have been asking about the purchase of anti-building missiles. It is believed to be missing about 7,500 for regular defence against the city, that it is about 10m euros somewhere. The emergency sector says it's the kind of request it sent to your ministry, and you say it's the first time you've heard of such a request. The prime minister says it's wrong that this sector has fallen under the MAP, because no one has provided money and asks MPs - who will provide money? What I expect in the future on all these issues is that, of course, the government is acting as a team, that the Minister of Health, who was to sit here today and answer all the questions that you can't be responsible for, to see how many children with rare diseases are and how average the treatment costs, because the statistics in that part are very clear. I think you're in many areas, as well as in the sector you're in charge of, quite firm hands, quite serious and responsible, but obviously that's not enough. This shows this budget rebalance, and another budget rebalance is possible by the end of the year. Nothing means that you are in your sector in which you are in charge of serious and responsible, if you have a health minister whose ministry and health institutions under his jurisdiction are ruled by an organized chaos, which obviously corresponds to someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20537	The word is Mrs. Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20538	Thank you. I use the time of the parliamentary group, because I consider it necessary to comment and comment on the minister's presentation of children with rare diseases, because ignorance doesn't justify it. For six months now, the Assembly has been undergoing a process involving both the President of the Assembly and the Health Committee and many of us, to find a system solution. Many of us MPs have addressed the current health minister and former health minister, Mr Stankovic, as well as the one before him, Mr Tomica Milosavljevic. The one before Tomica Milosavljevic, I don't know, I think it was Leprechaun Milicevic, but we weren't talking to her. If she found out anything about this debate, it's that the minister doesn't know what's in his budget rebalancing, because there's a purpose at the health ministry's department to treat children with rare diseases. The auctioning of such cases, in that sense, is inappropriate and inadmissible in Serbia, and the ignorance shown by insufficient information on how many MPs from all parliamentary groups have dealt with it shows one arrogance without cover, a completely unworthy debate on budget rebalancing. The fact that the problem is the Fund and the fact is that many of us have also discussed budgets and budget rebalances over the last ten times talked about the fact that, for example, putting the inside food on a positive list has been a big problem, because the Director of the Fund is not responding to anyone and because the Minister of Health has to ask the Director of the Fund to do so. Consultations with experts and, of course, consultations with people who have a child's life history with rare illness. If the information about 60 children is a reason for the minister to say – we will solve it easily, that sentence is my biggest concern, when I heard it in this room. Because if with such an ease it is considered to be a solution and why has someone not already solved it, because it is only 400 million, then it is put under a big question – what about the other items in the budget and what about the minister's position on individual positions in the budget from various other ministries? The information on how many there are and the money that is intended for this is already in the rebalancing process. A colleague, Dusan Milisavljevic, is asking for more money to ensure that these 60 cases will receive the state's financial assistance for what is most difficult in their cases in families with children with rare diseases. The assembly, independent of the Ministry of Health, will also carry out the overall work in consultation, as the president of the Assembly informed, of the system solutions. To all this, without knowing it, without asking questions, demeaning the messengers of the people is inadmissible. I am sorry that on a subject like this the minister shows such a lack of knowledge through the lack of empathy towards the sixty children with whom MPs are involved and work as well as with any other association, because it is our job, to listen to people and to present in this room what is their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20539	The People's Messenger, Shane, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20540	Ladies and gentlemen, really I, as a parent, as someone who has children, have to comment. This has indeed been painful for me, and for many of the people who listened, for many of the Messengers. I think this is a pain in the ass to listen. In that sense, I would like to ask the president of the Health Committee to prepare for the next month, month and a half or two, how much time it takes, one information, study, call her whatever you want. I'll be the first to press the button, not ask anyone about the amendment, if we're really solving this money situation. We're all in one situation, we're not experts, and we don't understand each other, I hear from colleagues who are health workers that heart transplant has nothing to do with it, someone mentions that it's part of it, someone's saying 60, so we're really brought into a situation that we're so bitterly listening to all this, that we're bitterly suffering all this, that people next to television screens are watching and we're all coming into a situation that we're all responsible tomorrow, because for something and we have responsibility as MPs. What are you doing there, what is your relationship to children, to the sick? So anyone who doesn't take care of it, first if I don't take care of it, I don't belong here. I really don't know what to think after all this. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, that on the trail of what you said, unbound for the budget, you give the right information within the next month or two days. I think all of us MPs, if there is a solution, well the cheapest thing is to sit down one day and make a deal, to make the right solution, but that solution has to be the same for everyone and all of us together to support it. There's no place to judge on this question whether this minister is good or not. If we don't have a good solution, none of us MPs are good. It's not an individual question, it's a question of our shared responsibility. I really ask you, Mr. President, as president of the Assembly and president of the Health Committee, to do everything you can to ensure that all MPs receive the right information. There's really no room to talk about anything, about any policies, that's our relationship to children, that's our relationship to Serbia's future, but give real information and see what we can do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20541	We'll try to make it faster. The word is Mr. Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20542	Probably like the people watching this transmission, and I feel bad, and I'm really sick of this debate. In the presentation of Mrs. Comić, I consciously mention it, there was not a bit of politicisation, not a bit of evil will, or a bit of interpretation. It seems to me that we've crossed that line that's inadmissible after all. I don't know why someone wants to create a play that here on one side there are people who care about our children, who love our children, and on the other side people and evil ministers who don't like children, who don't care about them, that some MPs want to help and that the other won't. I think that conclusion, if that's the point, is completely wrong and wrong. Yesterday, I came forward with that idea today. Yes, we have found the problem and we have agreed through this debate and it is quite obvious that this problem should be solved in one way. He can't be solved by the finance minister today and here with us, but it's quite clear how serious the problem is and it's clear that no one here in this room is against the problem being solved. Turns out someone doesn't want to help the kids. Yesterday, we heard a terrible qualification I reacted to, where the head of the Health Committee, who is a doctor, a humanist, is literally saying the following, firstly counted what the children are suffering from, waiting for lung transplants, hearts and then says the following, literally, quote: "This government has condemned those children". Well, isn't that monstrous? I reacted to it yesterday and it's a monstrous structure by a single doctor. I'm ashamed of it. I'm ashamed of this discussion. I'm asking you, President, to stop this discussion, because it's really crossing a normal line right now. To realize together that we have a problem, to realize that we are all ready and willing to solve the problem, including us MPs and the Government. We're not going to solve it today and here through this way and this kind of debate, because it's really painful and it's hard. Whoever's in this room feels it. Don't let anyone get away. It's really ugly that we're politicizing it. No one here will pick up the points. How can we say at some point that we would do that, that, that, and that, but we're not in a position, and when we're in a position, we keep quiet about all these problems, so we let the opposition do the same thing. We're all involved in this, and we've all shown that we're not capable of solving problems, especially in this atmosphere, and not that this is how we're confrontational about these things. It's no problem at all to talk about whether we should build roads here or there, to be local patriots and be, but to play with people's fates like this. Watch out now, put yourself in the position of someone who has a sick child and who listens to all of us. How does he feel and how does he feel about us? Here, believe me, I'm saying this from the heart. Not at all, no idea that anyone... It's hard and unpleasant for me. Please stop, if possible, with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20543	Mr. Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20544	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also share my fellow Members' opinion that indeed no one in this room is against the fact that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, especially every sick child, is being helped. I don't think there's any doubt about it, and I think from here on out, one such message has to get out of here. However, there were also difficult qualifications about some kind of organized chaos in work, or something like that. I don't think that really fits the truth. It is true that for the first time, perhaps, we are having a serious debate here in parliament, and that, yes, after 20 years, the Ministry of Health has been seriously accounted for and identified certain means of treating patients with rare diseases, so on. Goshe's disease. That has not really been the case so far. On the other hand, of course, a serious problem deserves serious discussion, serious approach, and systemic solutions. Perhaps if it were very easy and through only one debate to resolve, it would have been settled by now. Certainly, I expect that this debate in this direction will shed light on this problem in our society and call on all those, above all, both the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also all of us in society, NGOs and other institutions that can be involved in solving this problem and determine certain systemic directions to address this problem. Of course, I'm sure, I say once again, that in this sense we are all thinking the same way and that we want to help, but we really need to, after all, be realistic and not have difficult qualifications and seriously approach the solution to this problem, and it cannot be solved through just one congregation debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20545	Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20546	Thank you. If and when someone chooses evil ministers in this congregation, you don't care that I'm going to say it loud and clear. So far, that wasn't the case, but it was the case that there were ministers who didn't know, and they don't even know they didn't know. Please, don't even try to get any other rhetoric apart from the facts of this debate to the subject that it is, and the subject is next. The budget rebalances 130 million. The minister defends that budget rebalancing. In comments on the amendment of counterpart Dusan Milisavljevic, he does not know that the amount exists, it is obvious because he asks how much money it needs. The amendment says – add to the votes of most 400 million to this amount to cover the costs of another 50 children based on the estimates that parents and associations themselves have. That's the situation. Nothing more and nothing less. The Minister who defends the rebalancing must know that it is written to him in the budget as he must know that it is legitimate to refuse such an amendment, no problem is there. But it cannot be known that for a very long time in this assembly there is a process of dialogue to solve the problem systemically, as it cannot be known not to know that many MPs from all MPs have dealt with both rare diseases and essential food and living room and various other problems that have families that have been completely invisible to the system for a very long time. It is no politicisation, it is no case that cannot be solved but also the remarks made by the minister – come on, if that's 400 million, that's easy to solve, it requires a comment from the MPs, if we care about the fact here. We have no doubt that the problem will be resolved as we do not agree that the minister is asking questions to the MP without having previously read that there is this amount in the budget. How did this amount come to be? Based on what consultations in the government? We do not interfere, this amount has been offered to us and we say add another 400 million through the amendment of counterpart Dusan Milisavljevic. It's legitimate to accept, it's legitimate to refuse. It is not allowed to try people who have read the budget and who have been dealing for years with the topic that is currently being planted into politicisation and that it is something that someone else should have solved. It's not even a question of style. It is a matter of a fundamental, responsible relationship with the topic currently on the agenda, which is the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I hope that the process started within the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the President of the Assembly and with the chairman of the Health Committee will deliver results in a system solution. But I hope that by then there could be agreements between the parliamentary groups to adopt the amendment of counterpart Dusan Milisavljevic and to give it the right to the minister that it was easy to solve the problem if he already said in this assembly that this is the solution, because there must be 400 million in the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20547	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20548	I'm just not gonna talk here when my amendment comes in to deal with this. I think now there's an open debate that's kind of quality with everything flawed. But what makes it unclear to me is why some content is constantly being loaded. Which is why the vast, or many MPs here need to prove whether this is a pathetic fight, or not a pathetic fight and what they think. We, when we adopt the budget or when we pass any law, but the budget in particular, so each item is practically a decision on someone's life, on someone's rights. Which is why this is now such a dramatic topic, so everyone's asking for no demagogy, that it's not this, that it's not that, that they perform as parents or not as parents. What difference does it make? When we adopt a law that defines the rate of contributions to health care or anything else we decide yet to know a thousand, tens of thousands of lives more than in this situation. We don't have to think that way at all, I don't see that as an argument. This is not a meteor question that hits one part of the globe, so we are the only ones facing it and now as Mr. Kasalovic says – we are all ready to help. Nobody's supposed to help anybody here, that's the thing, and that's the key problem. There are health fund insurance companies who need the service they paid for. But that's where Mr. Dinkic opens up other problems. That's what we talked about here. When you buy helmet insurance, the policy says which risks you are insured from, when you pay the health fund to the Republic Health Insurance Fund, you don't know what rights you have, or what risks you are insured to. That's the problem. Since health insurance is for situations like these that citizens, insurance companies, not like any insurance, they couldn't cover the one-time money they had. People don't need health insurance for the Andol and the cold, we all treat ourselves for it, but for situations like this. If the system can't answer that, it's wrong from the very beginning. This is no question of humanity, who loves children, who doesn't like children, etc. It has nothing to do with that. That's why I'm bothered with this kind of discussion. So we have a problem, a misjudgement of the necessary means of treatment. And that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20549	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20550	Mr. President, I apologize, but I must remind you both of article 27 and of the first member, who says - Rule 1 says the Rules of Procedure are adopted in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, the Constitution and the laws. When things happen, I don't intend to, please, and especially I don't want anyone to explain to me what's going on with the sick kids. It's not politicisation, it's insolence, but there are clear constitutional principles and legal principles that defend child abuse. Please, when we have a situation where we all say, this is the Minister of Finance, this is a law where both amendments and explanations have clear procedural definitions and, compared to them, I expect you and Mr. President of the Assembly to give notice if you are called, about what you have personally done, and I know that it is, to initiate an adequate process, that the Assembly really does something and that there is no need for each other's accusations, so we all know when we are sick, then what someone wrote in the amendment whatever MP, which is an assessment of parents. Well, you know what my parents estimate is, that there are no big funds for my child. But it can't say that in the budget, it has to say, what price, how much it costs, and how we're going to secure it. Everything else is abuse and child abuse, and citizens, and simply here is no place for it, there are so many topics. Whoever wants to raise a child in the campaign to get votes, go pick up farmers whenever he wants to get votes from agriculture. Don't act like one here. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20551	Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20552	I'll use time from an authorised representative. Indeed, this discussion was below all levels. So if someone says that they would want children in Serbia instead of text messages, to collect money to save their lives, they say it's child abuse, then they have no idea about morals, politics, or ethics. What is now said, and it seems to me that in a similar way they have tried to defend politics, the Government would say, rather than the minister, and the other MPs from his parliamentary group, are really not to comment. In that sense, MPs of the Democratic Party will no longer participate in this region.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20553	To Article 6. Sections 16 and 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20554	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this proposal provides for allocations for the Transition Fund by the Ministry of Finance and Economy 4 billion and 986 million dinars, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of 263 million dinars. These funds are intended for the social programme and for the management of surplus employees in state-owned enterprises, particularly those of today's state-owned enterprises. As the government's recovery programme is also scheduled to privatise some enterprises in restructuring, it is expected that there will be many extra employees, and it is expected that this item in the budget and plans nearly five billion dinars. With the amendment, we proposed that item from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of 263 million dinars be transferred to the item of the transition fund by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, in this total amount and thus increased. However, you did not accept this amendment, Mr. Minister, on the grounds that these 263 million dinars that were singled out were at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, already spent on a social programme for extra employees in Galenica, amounting to 210 million dinars, and the rest is for extra employees at Vulcana. As it stands in the law, as well as in the explanation that these funds are intended for social programmes, only for those enterprises, for which future status is clearly defined. We understood that future status, you talked about it the other day when we discussed the government's proposal for a measure to get out of the crisis, that individual enterprises that are now in restructuring, their certain future status is their privatisation. Since there will be extra employees, there is money for that surplus staff. From this explanation of yours, the question simply arises – by which act the "Gallenika" government is in some status, a future certain status, and on which basis these 210 million were spent on the social programme of extra employees at Galenika, and we know that Galenika has been doing business for two years, we know how far she has come, we know who is in prison and we know that she is back in two years or since the arrested director of hundreds of new workers has been employed. Which I simply cannot ask without asking that question, if you know you will answer me and that is why we disagree that this amendment has not been accepted. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20555	Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20556	As you know, at the beginning of this year there was a tender privatisation process of Galenika, several companies that came forward, only one that met the tender criteria. During the process, a call was also called for workers for a voluntary social programme. These are the workers who came forward before it was known whether the process would succeed or not, so they paid for the severance payment. They volunteered to leave Galenika, about three hundred of them. After that, the process ended, you know how, so Galenika remained state-owned, with problems and obviously we will have to solve it ourselves. A strategic partner was supposed to be an essential solution to Galenika. You know for a fact that one part of the people, first of all the union leaders, were against any strategic partner coming, even protesting it. In the end, the strategic partner, although it is one of the largest companies in the pharmaceutical industry in the world, has quit. One reason was precisely the hostile attitude, not the workers, but the unions, the union leaders towards them. It's just that serious companies don't want to work in an hostile environment, so now that problem's left to the state. In Galennica, about 1,000 people, past the economic resonance, have been employed in the last few years, which is one of the main causes of the current negative business of Galenika. Galenika made 100m euros a year a few years ago, and now it will barely reach 50m, and they are now under analysis. I think that today was a meeting between my assistant public enterprises and current director Galenika, where it was simply given the task of the next nature – that business costs are in line with the needs of Galenika for the purchase of necessary repromaterials and the ability to pay off all the credit wars, and for the time being, mostly interest has reached, the principal is just reaching in the coming period. In any case, according to all the analyses, there is an additional technological surplus of some 800 people. Of course, I don't know if that's the correct number, it has to determine the analysis. However, without bringing down the number of people in "Gelenica" to technologically optimal, Galenika has no way of getting out of trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20557	The word is Mrs. Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20558	Yes, that's right, Mr. Dinkich. The fact that while Galenika was under, so to speak, management of DSS personnel, there was 40 billion gains left, and back two or three years, how many other parties, or some other government led Galenika, and you yourself said there are only about 1,000 employees at this point who can be excess at this point. Let me just warn you something. And we agree that there should be this transition fund in your ministry and we agree that these workers who are now working in state-owned enterprises, in general in the public sector, who will once have to come to the agenda and once we're going to have to start solving extra employees in the entire public sector, not to happen like now, to declare this company with a certain future status, so we're going to set aside some money, and we're going to divide the workers because we're talking about an ad, some of them volunteering, we're going to give them some big millions, we're going to give them these huge millions, and we're not going to solve the problem. We still have extra employees, we've spent money, and we haven't solved company status. Simply, that and something like that has to be paid attention, and it has to be controlled, because you know what, when it comes to state firms, at least we all know a few examples, if not more, that they've been leaving a state-owned company, they're calling the surplus, and then they're taking the severance payment, and how much in a month, two or three, they move into another state-owned company, and they're waiting for severance payment again. Now, that can't happen, because at this time of crisis and when you say it yourself -- it has to be done on every spent dinar of accounts, we can't have a double cost like this happening. Let's give the money, let's not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20559	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20560	You're absolutely right and the money from the Transition Fund will be used exclusively to finally resolve company status. So either the company will remain as state, but without restructuring, it will either be privatized or will go into bankruptcy depending on the case to the case. This money from the Transition Fund will be intended exclusively for the permanent resolution of issues in these companies. That applies to Galenika, that applies to everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20561	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic and Dejan Mihajlov to Sections 16 and 34. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic to the 6th Sections 19 and 20th. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Petkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20562	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Dinkic, in Serbia, billions of dinars are spent on road maintenance each year. We know that often many works are performed without a tender. We know that there are often violations and abuses of the Public Procurement Act. I don't know if you have that information, but I suppose maintaining roads in Serbia is the most expensive, at least in the Balkans, if not throughout Europe, and the quality of our citizens' roads doesn't need much to talk about, and you're talking about today, the quality of the asphalt used, the way certain works are done and how much it costs. On the other hand, when we compare the number of car accidents, how many people have been killed on our roads, that data is truly devastating. The Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, the regional development of local self-government, has received significantly less funds to maintain, regularly and occasionally maintain local roads. I remind you that the budget envisioned 3 billion and 100 million dinars, and that, on the basis of the rebalancing, 1.57 billion were foreseen. After removing significant funds belonging to local self-government, which have been poured into local budgets based on profit tax, I think many local self-governments will be in a great deal of trouble to maintain and regularly, but also in those situations of roads when, for example, when cleaning snow or other unforeseen situations. That is why we have proposed that this amendment reduce the funds of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". I cannot accept the argument that it would endanger security on Serbia's roads. I can't wait for the debate that will be held here tomorrow on turning the debt of the Public Business of Serbia into a public debt, so let's see what's going on in this company, whether security is being threatened by not marking the charging ramps, which is not marked by the roads and the works being carried out on them, that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic wanted the roads to be safer, we wouldn't suggest that we change the dioptrium when we sit in the car and take care of where and how we move. I think this amendment should have been accepted, but I understand your argument so that I really can't wait to hear tomorrow what's so successful about "The Way of Serbia" that a huge amount of budget would have been poured into their funds after all the affairs, after all the failed moves by the current director, after all that's been going on in the past months, what will the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" do so much to the safety and quality of roads and traffic in the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20563	On Article 6th, 20 amendments were submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20564	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this amendment predicted that the distribution of the Ministry of Transport and the funds intended for the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" set aside funds amounting to 200 million dinars, which would have been spent on drawing up planning documentation for the state path of the First Order of Požarec-Kučevo-Majdanpek-Granica with Bulgaria. I submitted the same amendment last year when it came to the Republic's 2013 budget. Now I'm going to look back on your explanation. Under one, you state that the amendment is not accepted because the bill already provides for a reduction of funds under the same economic classification. You also say that the amendment is not accepted since priorities have already been identified in the implementation of transport infrastructure projects in eastern Serbia. You specify the path that is currently being built, then state that eastern Serbia should be given a chance to develop by implementing transport infrastructure projects according to priorities and in line with strategic documents, etc. I think your commitment to giving equal chances to everyone, even to eastern Serbia, is only declarative, because otherwise you would have accepted this amendment. You in the fourth position, i.e. in the last position of your argument, say that this time, this route, its construction is foreseen by a spatial plan for 2014. I completely agree with that, and I, as the basis for writing this amendment, had exactly a spatial plan with me, but before building the same time, it is necessary to do the planning documentation, so I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20565	The People's MP Radoslav Milovanovic has the word: Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20566	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would support the amendment of my colleague, Branke Karavidic, for a reason why the amendment is meaningful. The second reason is that I come from the municipality of Kučevo, which also belongs to eastern Serbia, and the third reason is that only the last census data shows that there are 15% fewer populations in eastern Serbia than there were 10 years ago. The second thing, eastern Serbia is rich and mined wealth, as well as wooden wealth. How are you going to bring an investor to eastern Serbia, whether it's Kučev, Majdanpek, Negotina, Bora, if there's no good infrastructure. The explanation is there's no money, and there's money. For example, the Office of Quick Answers will spend 8.8 billion dinars. Imagine, twice as much as the Serbian Parliament budget. The Sustainable Development Office for underdeveloped areas of half a billion. The government's Air Force Service – no more than 358 million: The cabinets of ministers are 15, 25, up to 50 million dinars. I think a couple should be found for this kind of purpose. Eastern Serbia is a border area, I mentioned its economic potential and on behalf of all those living there, I think the government should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20567	The National MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to section 6 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milica Radovic, submitted to section 6 of the amendments. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have asked by amendment that the amount of subsidies from public enterprises, which I primarily had in mind of "The Railways of Serbia", be reduced by one billion and that the amount should be shifted to improve the work of the Women's Health Protection Service in the area of reproductive health and family planning. Namely, as you can see, this amendment has no ambition to be accepted, but its intention is to point to a completely wrong choice of priorities when it comes to this budget rebalance. Should we continue to allocate funds to subsidise losers so that they continue to make losses or should we invest money in what is most needed at this time, which is the primary goal of the Republic of Serbia, which is to change Serbia's demographic picture? I think that if a reduction in the subsidies of public enterprises is announced, it should be visible. It is not enough to reduce subsidies to public enterprises, more specifically "Serb Railways" by 10%, because this does not solve the problem, nor achieve any significant gains, or savings. Personally, I think that this very bad business company, which has so far created losses for its irrational and inefficient business, which may have been able to withstand some of the world's most developed countries, but certainly not the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Despite the fact that they do not know that they are operating, they do not know what is most terrible – to withdraw funds from a loan already agreed before and therefore Serbia pays fivem euros in foam due to delays in the realisation of the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development. If that is the case, if they do not know that these funds are to be invested in the modernisation of traffic, i.e. the railway in Serbia, and I will remind you, you know very well that today the average train in the Republic of Serbia is moving at a speed of 42km per hour, then, with all due respect, they do not need money. Then what do we define for them? Isn't it smarter to invest that money in something that's crying out for money at the moment, which is just a promotion to the Health Services for women in reproductive periods, family planning? That is a condition, I remind you, without whom there is no natural renewal of a nation, without which there is no change in the demographic image of Serbia at this time. It seems to me that the task of this government is, at least so noted in the exposé of the Minister, or Prime Minister Dacic, that this is exactly the goal of one of the primary goals that the Republic of Serbia will have, and I think we have done nothing in this field so far. And if today, at this point, it's not clear to us I'm afraid it'll never be clear to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20569	On Article 6th, 23 amendments to the correction were submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ruzica Igic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP Bojan Djuric submitted amendments to Sections 23 and 25 of the corrections. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic, together Branka Karavidić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Gorica Mojović and together Bojana Božanić, Gorica Gajic and Dusica Morčev. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20570	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at one point during the debate, you seemed very sincere when you were in some kind of dilemma, and this dilemma consisted of discussing infrastructure projects, first of all in Vojvodina, and you made one point, that Maria Teresa and Tito actually invested, infrastructure projects were implemented and implemented. After them, there were no infrastructure realisations in Serbia. This really seems very strange when it comes from the mouth of a minister, especially when you have linked that lack of infrastructure investment at some point in the formation of multilaterals in Serbia. Mr. Minister, it was not a multi-party problem in terms of stopping investment in Serbia. You could get valid data and answers to your dilemmas and your question from your coalition partners. So, since the 1990s, there has been no large infrastructure investment in Serbia for this very reason, because Serbia has been at war, Mr. Minister, so perhaps the most information you could get from all those who were then in power and from the most dear and kind opposition parties. Therefore, it is not multi-party, not parliamentaryism is Serbia's biggest problem. Serbia's biggest problem is the wrong policy, and we keep going back to that policy. When we look at that even in this budget item, you're actually solving the savings issue by halveing the resources that you're making for local self-government for regular and occasional maintenance of the local travel network, then it's clear how important it is in Serbia. So, not only are large infrastructure projects being done, but something already existing is being maintained. Is this a way to modernise Serbia? Is this a way to change something in Serbia if you're saving on investments, about eight billion dinars less investment, when you're saving on such important things that could contribute to the development of the entire economy? The economy is at a loss in 2012 of around 63 billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20571	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20572	I said it worked out, and it really is. I can tell you that again and explain it to you. I also mentioned Maria Teresa, and I mentioned Tito because at that time, the former Yugoslavia was in debt. If you're asking where all these projects were funded, and Gerdap, and the highway that used to be called the Brethren and Unity Highway, and now there's only one song that, and thermal power plants, it was from the credits of various institutions that had passed away since 1980, at the time of Tito's death. I'm telling you that. That's right. Why is that true? A multiparty, as you know, wasn't introduced in 2000, but 10 years earlier, so that matches it. So if you're already saying that there weren't 90 years of infrastructure projects, like it wasn't, it would have been a time when a multi-party was introduced. I'm not saying that the multi-party is responsible and I didn't want to, I'm just saying that those facts have coincided, that when there was a kind of system, investments were easier and faster. There was no public procurement at the time. Whether someone liked it or not, then something was building and sinking, but everything that was built was built without public procurement. I'm not saying public procurement is wrong, but what I'm saying is that some countries that don't have public procurement, in the Arab Gulf of Emirates or some other countries that don't have those rules, have proven to have implemented some infrastructure projects faster. I'm not saying we should go back to that time, it's history. How do I know all this was done for borrowing? First you can look at the structure of our debt. And today, we're paying off some of these loans, and after 2000, the public debt was 160% of GDP, and then we got 66% off the Paris and London Club. That's exactly what money was used for these infrastructure projects. It was my finding that at the time, the organization was obviously better, when something was still being built. My question is - how is it possible now, in which we now live, in 2013, that maltenes are harder to build, let's even this time which is mentioned just before from Pogorec to so-called "Pogorec". The Danube highways, to Kladov, but what were the Egyptians to build pyramids, when there were not only public procurements, but when there was no technique? So the fact is that we have a problem in the organization and that money doesn't help, that money doesn't help. Why isn't money helping? Because I've given you information on how many undrawn loans we have for infrastructure, three billion and 300 million euros at the moment. That was ineffective, I can speak from 2000 to here, in all governments. I agree with you, there were other circumstances, there were 90s. We return again, only capital building was built when Serbia had a unilateral system. Am I in favor of coming back? I didn't. Although it would be better if the coalitions were less.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20573	Replica, Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20574	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would agree with you. I wouldn't want to go back to that time and that one-party, even though there are many today who would and how they would like to introduce one-sided and one-man actually be that enlightened absoluteist and rule this country both in heaven and on earth. I would ask you many, many questions of life. You said yourself, he's got money somewhere, but money isn't spent rationally. It's not organized. So obviously there are some disturbances in the organization and arrangement of this country and this society. What does it take, Mr. Minister, to change that? Today, this government has one comfortable majority. This government has been there for a year. There's space, there's time, there's opportunities, there's support in the world, there's support in Europe, there's great support on home ground. With a majority like this in parliament, there's a lot to be done. How do you explain that, Mr. Minister, this government does not apply or enforce its own law, the Law on Public Enterprises? How to explain it to citizens and how to explain to the public that the government does not want something that is in the function of an organisation and some arrangements and transparency, it simply does not want to implement and implement it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20575	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20576	How do we get rid of this? One man can't do that. It has to be one general support for society. This means that life is not polluted by someone who would like to work somewhere in the public sector and carry out all of this through various attacks on the media, etc., because we now have a situation where people who are most able to escape from the state sector, because they can't have a good salary, and yet they attack them from all sides those who are worse than them. Instead of making one system so there's no catch and finding a way for good experts to run these infrastructure projects to pay well, not every day in the papers, because their wages are higher than, say, some in the administration, so that red tape is reduced, for example. when it comes to a new law on planning and building, not to go to be in the interest of spatial planners and those who are responsible for doing these projects as long and more complicated as possible so that they have as much fee and as much money as possible, but to make it as short as possible and to make as few people involved. There are many such things, but there are many other interests on the other side, to which it does not suit. When all of this is added up and taken away, we are now the fact victim of a very bureaucratic system, where when someone even tries to make a step, they get attacked because they squirm in some sense from that bureaucratic grey. Is that possible to solve? I think so, but it takes a lot of strength. It is necessary not to look at the one who handles it and who has political support for various papers and to push it, to cut red tape, to make a good organization, that if someone says – why my organization is not involved in the implementation of projects, I don't care, if you're not needed, you won't be involved. So, the media doesn't promote TV engineers who lost their jobs because they cut the state budget to buy, I don't know, information technology, and they've had years of agreement with various state institutions to do their very business. Those on the market can't come on TV to say what their problems are. Those who have some interest and who easily got jobs, now that the cut-off budget of the second, third ministry, I'm looking at the morning program of Pink TV, some expert shows up and says, we're all going to lose our jobs. Who's gonna lose their job? Most of them don't work for the state at all, most of them are on the market. Most of them work for abroad. We sell software around the world. So this is just one little segment, one example. If we could create one such climate, where problems are openly talked about, but also solutions, and there isn't that sorting-out, I say again, and demagogy, I think we'd come to that solution. I think your MP group is very open and constructive and it contributes to creating such a climate, but what it says is, you take one step forward, and then some others take three steps back. They're not always, unfortunately, just in power. There are, but there are plenty of them in that unconstructive part of the opposition, now not to mention them, here's the gentleman standing next to you representing them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20577	Mrs Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20578	Thank you. Mr. Minister, about here, we would agree on what is necessary to do, but to begin with, what are the obstacles in this government that are not being implemented and not applying the Law on Public Enterprises? Here, for seven months now, this law has been in force and still does not move into realisation in terms of forming a supervisory board. We still have boards of directors. The problem remains to discuss competitions for public enterprises. That's one basic question, if you're really going to change and reform the entire public sector. You yourself were surprised today which is dueioza "The Way of Serbia" and since when the dubiosis came from 1992. You yourself predicted a reduction in subsidies, because you realized how much it was a waste of money and in the "Serbs of Serbia". You've seen the amount of interest you pay for the uncontrollably borrowing of "Srbigas". You have deleted in this rebalancing article 34, which has given the Government some discretionary right to new borrowings and to give new guarantees. You're obviously aware of the problem, Mr. Minister, but how do you solve it? I listened very carefully to you today during the whole day's debate. I simply expect you to give a concrete and honest answer – what do you intend as Minister of Finance to do about the Law on Public Enterprises being seriously applied? Do you have the support of your coalition partners? Is there a political will to apply this law? That's for starters.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20579	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20580	I'll give you an honest answer, just like you asked me to. We're a democratic society. The people voted for parties who don't care about the department. The largest number of votes in the election won parties that are not a priority at all. I've conducted everything in my competition portfolio in time, for these few public enterprises located in my portfolio, and also some others. But it's democracy. If the people don't put it at the top of their priorities when the elections come, they only talk about it in the papers before the elections or between the two campaigns. I know what your party's pledge is and you know how to pawn the party that I represent, but the majority vote for those who are not at all a priority, a departmental, a selection of directors of public companies in public competitions. That's what to say. You asked for an open answer, that's an open answer. Is that democracy? Yes, it is. It's democracy, the people vote as they wish, and we can't change that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20581	I must give my word to the People's MP Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20582	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's round up, since we've also submitted an amendment to Article 9 and suggested that it be deleted. I'm really asking the minister to really tell me how much more to load up on local self-government? We had first shifts of regional roads to the local level, so what are we going to do – we will see. After that, come on, we'll define their assets. Not to mention that we've defined only 900 million for winter maintenance, which is a big problem. I think it's even more necessary than this summer maintenance. Afterwards, we have put forward tenders with a lot of trouble, and with some new procedures - how to maintain it, how to regulate it, how to put together specifications and afterwards, in this new Public Procurement Act, which is also phenomenal, in June we are just getting these contracts with the contractors and then by 50% we reduce funds to local self-governments to maintain these roads. Does this mean that the municipalities will now have to be in debt to pay off the planned part of the funds? Contracts have been signed. I know a lot of municipalities where these contracts are signed. We talked about some vicious circle now. I don't know how to get out of that vicious circle now. It seems to me that colleague Komic has said something quarterly is happening. So, we promise something, and those promises are quarterly, they go into the water, specifically, for these local self-governments, and every four months -- the rebalance, the budget, the set of tax laws, and the suspension of those taxis, and now this rebalancing. Believe me, I feel like a parrot. I keep saying the same thing all the time, and I figure if I repeat enough times, I guess the minister will understand that he should pay attention to the problems of the people in the field. First, we cut these funds, we cut transfers, we cut taxes, we cut income taxes, we abolished some taxes, we centralize the profit account, we centralize public sector employment, we cut local self-government -- do you think none of the people in local self-government are competent to do anything? Do you think, not personally, but at all, all the ministers and governments, that someone there in Belgrade, some office, a minister, a secretary of state, and so on, can decide on all the affairs that are going on at the level of local self-government? We're missing infrastructure funds. That's what we saw. That's why we don't have a network of infrastructure. After that, of course we don't have any investors who come into these municipalities to invest something and thus we have a job shortage. This further leads to the lack of fresh living capital, which would come to some certain municipalities, all municipalities. From there we go to some negative – the lack of growth and economy and GDP and all production and everything. We have a lack of improvement in quality of life, which all leads to the lack of people in Serbia. If you think that the goal is to move us all here to Belgrade to live and if you think that this lack of people in Serbia is the goal we need to achieve, believe me, we have achieved it almost already.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20583	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20584	Unfortunately, I think you'll have to repeat this story many more times and be louder to solve the problem. The solution certainly is not that regional roads are maintained by cities and municipalities. Regional roads should be maintained by regions. The region needs to be formed first. Since when do I say that we need to change the Constitution and form regions in Serbia and give them jurisdiction? I will invite the Vojvodina to a meeting, as it is the only functional region that exists today in Serbia, to make this summer a law on the financing of Vojvodina, as I promised. One of the region's competences is to maintain regional roads – not cities, not the Republic, but regions. They should be given jurisdiction and resources for such a type of action. We're going to settle this to the dukes, hopefully, in a law that we're going to propose to this assembly to adopt before the budget bill for next year. But we will not solve the problem of you who are in western Serbia, eastern Serbia and southern Serbia, in Shumadija, without forming functional regions throughout Serbia. Until then, we'll have an unbalanced development. As far as the municipalities are concerned, 80% of the profit tax remains for cities and municipalities. It's for people who run cities and municipalities to set priorities. It is a priority for some to bring investors, hire people and build factories, and others to employ as many party people as possible. There are different municipalities in this area in Serbia. See how many employees there are in different towns and municipalities of Serbia, so you will see that there can be a local administration that has a minimum number of employees, and there are also those that are accumulated by party personnel through various furniture. Then, if money is given to bureaucracy in the municipality, then there is no use for these things – neither for roads nor for local roads, nor for infrastructure projects, which should be a function of local authorities. We also heard a demagogue today during today's day, a grudge to Novi Sad what property tax determines. If one administration has the majority support of a council member in a congregation to run a policy, property tax is a local tax. Then who is responsible for whether taxes will be collected and what will it be spent on? I don't want to get involved as finance minister, because it's a local self-government job. It is fiscal decentralisation, but then it must not go to demagogy and say it in some places – we would do it, but Belgrade does not. That's not fair. Some things the locale cannot do on its own, and therefore Belgrade's support, i.e. the republican government, is needed. But there are a lot of things he can do, but he's setting himself different priorities. How is it possible that some municipalities have an interest in giving free land to investors, only to come and build a factory and hire people, and some have set huge municipal fees and no one will come to them, let alone build a factory? It's decentralisation and it's democracy. If the people, that municipality and the city, if they don't mind that atrocity of budget goes to the public administration's salaries and not for projects, and if they vote for such people again, then I don't know what to say? It's a question of democracy and vice versa. In places where it is voted consecutively for, if at least it were, people who have already shown that the city is well run, then that's the right thing to do and that's a reliable sign that this man is good at running his own community. The problem, however, is that we have also distorted our political system and that we do not have a direct choice of mayor. We also have to change that. Not only do we have regions, but we have the mayor's election, the president of the municipality by name and last name, to stand before his fellow citizens and be responsible for the results of his work, not to hide behind the party. For neither Wolf, Dacic, or Kostunica, nor any of us, nor I, you, can know what anyone does in 170 municipalities and cities. It's supposed to be a man who goes to the polls by name and name.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20585	Replica, Mrs. Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20586	I would really agree with this last one completely with you, because it makes sense, and not just the mayors, I think the MPs should also stand by their names and names and represent their cities and municipalities and regions. As far as the region is concerned, we now have districts that function as-so. In fact, they don't deal with the things you've been talking about, they have a certain administration, and in this budget they have certain resources. I think maybe they could deal with these things. I certainly agree that we need to decentralisation and that there must be regions. Whether this should be done in this way as proposed and that these regions should be megalomanic or should remain at the level of these districts, I believe that this should remain at the level of these districts as they now exist and improve their capacities. I'm talking about the profit tax again. Of course 80%, that should be said, but it should also be said that we have reduced that income tax now in this previous period of these previous sets of tax laws. As for priorities and projects that need to be done in local self-government, that is what these local leaders and local authorities decide on. I'm interested in what you talked about today, so you asked some MPs to give you suggestions and whether the state has a development strategy, if there's any vision that projects and what priorities should be set? I haven't noticed in all sectors that's how it's done. So, if we had priority first of all of these major capital projects, to sort out the state, to have highways, to see what's going on with our airports, to see what's going on with our railways. So these are some of the main things. The state doesn't need to build a bridge out there in some village. In any case, no funds should be determined, local self-government should be taken into account. We're going to have big problems just because of this project documentation. I think the state should work on the project documentation first. So, to help local self-government make the planning documentation. I don't know if that order from a few years ago that all municipalities must have a spatial plan fulfilled, if all municipalities really have planned documentation, as far as project documentation is concerned, and staff training. We won't be able to get any of the funds, any of the funds, any of the states or other donors unless we have these basic elements. I'm afraid the state will have to work on it the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20587	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20588	Mr. Chairman, reporting I risk being charged with demagogy, since I'm an MP for the DS. But I would return to Article 9 where I, along with my colleagues, predicted that this member would be deleted. For our viewers, the citizens of Serbia, I just wanted to remind myself that this amendment provides for a return to the state of the time when the budget of the Republic of Serbia was being made, when funds of more than three billion dinars were being allocated to a network of roads excluded from the first and second lines, i.e. a network of local roads of more than six thousand kilometers. Evidence that this rebalancing is the result of merely cutting expenditure without a plan, without looking at the consequences is just not accepting this amendment. These half-lifed funds for local administrations will be insufficient for them to exercise their responsibilities. They won't be able to replace the billions and a half of dinar funds, and I can only remind them that their income has been drastically reduced these months. They're poor. I don't know how he's gonna handle this much length of local roads on his own. I would remind you that all local administrations in the first quarter of this year were obliged to send their summer maintenance plans to the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government. I believe all the local administrations did it. They got the consent of the ministry, and then they joined the public procurement. Some of them have signed contracts so far, and those who have been more fortunate have already provided for the execution of works on their local roads. I'm interested, Mr. Minister, what will local administrations do, 132, after adopting this kind of rebalancing? Will local self-government have to do their summer maintenance plans again, send it to the Ministry of Regional Development, do public procurement and re-sign contracts with performers? That's the question. I hope Mr. Secretary heard the question, so he'll answer my question. The rejection of this amendment actually points to a different level of problem. It's actually a traffic safety breach. I'm just going to try to describe one path that has been given to aging in the Majdanpek municipality, where experts say that the upper layer of the August curtain has been fired all along the road with impact holes, that on the bridges there have been a landing of coastal walls and bridges are not safe for traffic, where drains are filled with earth's material and stone all along, where the gaps are also filled with earth's material, and that the shafts have broken, and in some places there have been fractures of concrete pipes, i.e. gaps. I could read the entire report of experts, people, traffic inspectors, engineers who went on a tour of once transferred to the local administration of Majdanpek. I believe 90% of the MPs have recognized some of their local ways. I cannot believe that in the whole story, in the suggestion that the adoption of this amendment was not included by the competent ministers. I mean Minister Kalanovic and the Minister of Infrastructure. I'm almost certain that this catastrophic state is almost all six thousand kilometers of roadways a huge security threat in traffic. There are also people's lives at stake, not to mention potential material damage. Looking at budget rebalancing, I happen to find, for example, a member of the 6th division of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, a function – 410, an economic classification of 621 – the purchase of domestic financial assets, where 7,400,000 dinars were defined. Under a vague investment formulation of particular importance, and a schedule of use of the funds will be made under a special government act. Is the local travel network of particular importance to all citizens of Serbia and to the government of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20589	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20590	I'm going to answer this question, because it was concrete. If local self-government was planning to work for three billion dinars, I speak for all municipalities, for the maintenance of roads, which are regional character, their jurisdiction has been transferred to a local place, and now that that's half the amount by the Republic, they have two solutions. If they have the opportunity to finance it all by themselves, when I say it all, I mean the missing funds, or make an annex contract and finance as much money as they get. There's no third option. I have to tell you, if there's a problem with some expenditures that weren't celibate at all, which we had, I'll only give you two -- payments for almost a billion and a half dinar, a billion and a half dinars to settle unsecured deposits for Vojvodina Development Bank. I can give you more of those duets that are funded. It had to go down somewhere. What's the alternative? If we'd left the same amount, we'd have to be in more debt. There's no dilemma. The complete deficit is covered by borrowing. We don't have the privatisation income to cover that deficit, we don't have any donations. So an alternative to the higher budget deficit. Whatever this would be usefully used, I believe that roads should be maintained, but the higher budget deficit in these conditions means more borrowing, more interest costs in the coming years and even less money to maintain roads. It's a vicious circle. I spoke a few hours ago. It's not easy to break up. I told you how to break up. In any case, every municipality, every city will see what the possibilities are. Some municipalities, such as Majdanpek, certainly don't have the funds. I'm sure of it. They're in a bad position and they'll only be able to finance as much as they get from the Republic. Some others can add anything they lack or a missing piece, so they can do more, from case to case.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20591	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20592	Mr. Minister, just one sentence, I'm glad you remembered I'm from Majdanpek. The financing and maintenance of the local travel network would not be a problem for the Municipality of Majdanpek that RTB Bor municipality owes Majdanpek on behalf of the use of mineral raw materials, a cut made mart-april, 300 million dinars. If I say that the budget for this year is something over a billion, then you know what those funds are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20593	Minister Dinkic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20594	Is it liquid debt or is it something from the past? Liquid debt. The alternative is next. If it's about the current one, they'd really have to pay you for it, if it's a current obligation, because they've been profiting for the last three years. If it's a debt from the past, then it's another thing, if it's something accumulated from the past. But, definitely, when RTB Bor comes out of restructuring, then a solution to such situations, not only for RTB Bor, but also for Resavica, and for all who are now in restructuring, which will no longer be after a year, if he does not pay his commitment to the municipality, the municipality should block them and take off their coercion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20595	The word is Mrs Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20596	Thank you. Mr. Minister, let me get this straight. So democracy involves the rule of law, and the rule of law implies respect for the law. No party has received support from its voters from not respecting the laws. There is no party to this discretionary right to decide whether a law will respect, apply or not. For that very reason, I suppose it's quite clear to you that there is no kind of access here to the laws that you're talking about today, which approach can be given any amnesty or support. Dacic and Vukic spoke in election campaigns about this being another government when they came to power, different from the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Every day, in fact, it turns out they haven't gotten anything away from the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. What's more, I think there's a huge problem, if the right plan puts party interest, and you just answered honestly that there's no political will to really bring true democracy to life in terms of the rule of law. I think that as finance minister, as one rational man, you will be able to do something about it in that sense that your coalition partners, if nothing else, unless they are quite able to do something about this democracy and the rule of law, will be able to at least comply with those laws that this government is proposing, and the Assembly, or their parliamentary majority vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20597	Minister Dinkic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20598	Many of this government has strayed from the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, both in terms of European integration and in terms of solving some difficult problems, which both the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and some other governments have pushed under the rug, which is a solution to relations with Pristina. Also, we've come a long way away from not hiding anymore, like the previous governments were hiding, debts or unpaid bills, but we're out, and as much as we can pay for it. We probably haven't paid everything yet how many of these fiscal deficits have been left behind. Unfortunately, what has been left transparently, it is a huge public debt and a commitment to provide retailes both this and next year about five billion euros for the sake of smooth government funding. If someone thinks it's easy or there's no difference compared to the previous government, I'm just not going to get into it, it's a personal attitude. There's one more thing, and the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister, I really believe because of all these things I've been talking about, in the government's work so far, they haven't even been able to deal with perhaps some of the issues that are of paramount importance to you, but they're probably in some order of priorities with them. They just couldn't deal with everything. No speech, I'm not an interpreter. Every law has to be respected. When the Assembly adopts the law, it must be respected and I am convinced that this law that you are talking about will be fully respected as stated in the text of the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20599	Mr. Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20600	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Stefanovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are at the end of this debate on the budget. Yesterday's debate, or yesterday's debate, came down to rock lines, and today we had little sayings. If we sublime it, it turns out that the advancers gave a budget that says it's still not true that saying, "Who sings, doesn't mean evil," because the budget is bad. In this budget, we have handed over this amendment regarding maintenance of local roads, where you reduce from three billion to a billion and a half. It's bad, because these roads are supposed to be maintained, especially when there's not gonna be that highway between Pojat and Chacka this year. I'm sure he'll be in some years, because he's necessary. I'm a Krushevian, and I stand up for it, and I stand for it. Speaking of budgets, we might as well remind ourselves of this oak, because power is power, and oak is oak. Then you should say one about that oak. It is bad that President Vukic says - we will remove the oak because it is a reflection of the Palanic mentality and will not have people scratching cars. It would have been better if you had punished the designers, that in time you'd projected and done the right thing, so that there'd be an oak and we'd have a road. Because if the Americans had a 600-year-old oak, under which they built a banner of freedom and fought for independence, they would move that White House without cutting down the oak. But that speaks of you and your mentality – whether or not the government is being exercised, as someone has said. Perhaps that 600-year-old oak is good for keeping Tomovaca and making oak kegs, perhaps it holds the brandy well, but it is bad for Serbia to cut such a symbol. I know that in Corridor 11, he might have been in the way of President Nikolic, he often has traffic problems when he goes home, so you may be cutting him off, but maybe that oak would be a warning to what you did to Serbia, from the one Serbia where Serbs gathered under that oak to make it a modern state, to stand up for the Turks. You cut that oak to cut and calm your unclean conscience. That's not good. In the end, you've brought the whole debate down to a reality show – who's leaving the government and who's staying in the government. Let anyone go, let them stay who they want and who has the majority, but I guess after this budget rebalance you'll do a reshuffle of the government that'll be a better government than this one is now. Otherwise, Serbia does not write well with such a government and this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20601	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20602	We don't really write well if we have to pay five billion euros each year only to the main debt and interest, most of which is the legacy of your party's government. We don't write well, I've said it a hundred times. Can the budget be good if we have this kind of interest costs, if we pay twice as much for interest as we pay for the entire farm? You say, "Give more for agriculture." So what do I do with interest? Let us forget them, and let them say, the land is bankrupt? Let's be realistic, the total state contributions, when we add up what's a classic budget and what's financing the capital of the past, that's 15 billion euros indicative. Of these 15 billion euros, one third, or five billion, is the main interest. From the rest, between 10 billion and 80% are salaries, pensions and social protection. You only have one small part, two billion euros of 15 billion euros, for everything else, for agriculture, for health, for culture, for sport, for economy, for defense, for the police and for everything else. What wizard here could make a budget that, as you say, would be good? Everyone's gonna be bad. There is no good budget in conditions where we pay five billion euros for interest and the principal of debts and when we essentially have three quarters of this budget of wages, pensions and social contributions, therefore, something that is necessary. What's the maneuvering space for some special policy? But, of course, I don't want to complain, but I really want to do this again because it's a fact. In such a situation, the solution is not to complain, the solution is to see what is the solution. The solution is that small funds are not given to losses, not to non-productive subsidies, but to speed up the economy, to help the export economy above all, and to bind domestic small and medium-sized enterprises to successful exporters, to produce more to share in the public sector. So, the private sector, first of all, must be developing. Production has to be helped to make everything else. It seems to me that, if we're just talking about it, for one, the other, the third, the fourth, so each of you is right, but you must always keep in mind, if you want objectively, of course, to discuss, not demagogue, what are the limitations, or what I once called it, a taximeter. How long did it wait for you when you got in the cab, drove, didn't drive, you have to pay for the start? It is 5 billion euros in Serbia at 15 billion euros in total expenditure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20603	Mr. Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20604	Just for a little while. I have no intention of plowing with the minister, because these words were not addressed to him, but to the greatest ruling foreigner of this coalition. So, I won't be criticizing you much, I'll just tell you the next one. When you were bringing this budget last year, I was just then becoming a member of the Parliament and I remember the discussion of all my colleagues. You had a bad plan, you can't work, you can't run an economy, and what you're doing isn't going to be good. Now after six months, it turns out we were right. At the same time, we had that Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, who didn't miss a single press conference while she was in opposition to the SNS, not to go out and say -- oh, Serbian citizens, as Serbia is in charge, so it's a disaster. Now there's no question about her saying she's in charge, and four billion you're in charge of. What's wrong with you? Don't be nervous. The truth is healing, but first you have to drink the medicine, so you have to wait for it to start working, and then you have to show emotion. What you're doing right now is instinctive behavior. Don't react to your instincts, your emotions. Act with reason, and reason must tell you that you are a poor leader of this country's state and economy. Just as bad as last time you ran. Just so it's not as bad as last time. That's what we're warning you. We're appealing. Not because of you, we're doing it for Serbia. So that's where my controversy ends with you. God forbid you do a budget rebalance. The revision of the budget. God forbid you continue the path of European integration, no matter what happens these days and the mockery that has come. Don't kneel, don't be afraid. The temptations are great, you made them yourself. Perhaps it would be fairest if you now solve the problems you've created yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20605	Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20606	I'm not going to use the right to the final word, now I'm going to use it in response to your last one, I'd say an unwarranted, unfounded criticism. There's a huge difference compared to a year ago. Serbia opened pre-accession negotiations with the EU a few days ago. What your party also requested and wanted for 12 years, happened a few days ago thanks to the government led by Ivica Dacic and the first vice president, Aleksandar Vukic, whose I am minister of finance and economy. Secondly, we have a serious strategy to try to solve these accumulated problems in various fields. Have we been successful so far? We didn't. Yeah, we wouldn't even be talking about the government's reconstruction. But the fact is that the strategy is the development of the automotive industry. That's not an accident. At least you know I kept talking about it when they criticized me and didn't believe it. Today, the automotive industry is pulling 20% of Serbia's total exports and Serbia's exports are 21% higher this year than in the same period last year. This year's budget deficit will be lower than last year. For the first six months, 12% was lower, 1.5% of GDP was lower at the end of the year. It's not good enough and it's not good enough. I wish this government had been left with a budget deficit of 3% what is the European country's criterion. No, a deficit of almost 7% was left. It's a problem that we have a catastrophic start-up position, but still step by step, we'll fix it. The second thing, even what's our biggest problem with all previous governments and our government, it's been a year, now it's gonna be a year. We can say it's the end of July for a year. Even the trend of five-year unemployment growth in Serbia has been halted. We have an extremely high unemployment rate, though, 24%. The modest growth of 2.1% but those 24% is less than 25.5% a year ago and that 2.1% of growth is more than minus two last year. Better plus than minus, I guess it's clear to everyone. Of course, I don't want to talk about things that I don't deserve at all, but I want to say that the fight against corruption and crime is not only commended by the citizens of Serbia, which is most important, a recognition from the European Commission. One of the reasons why we got pre-accession negotiations is precisely the progress in that field and cancels some bad things in so-called. A reform of the judiciary that actually meant a cleanup of people so that politically similar people would be judges. The European Commission has been talking about this for years. No newspaper in Serbia, no television should have transmitted it. So it is not news that the European Commission's objections to the Serbian judiciary and so on. the reform that took place in the previous government for years. Read the European Commission's reports on the field now. I don't deserve that at all. Justice Minister Selakovic is responsible for that. I've never given in to someone else's feathers. I never went and I don't want to talk about it. Anyway, it's not an easy situation, it's extremely difficult, but the government has a clear plan of how to move forward one step at a time. We are part of that plan exposed here in the Assembly, it is not part of the whole plan because the economy is an important segment but are not the only segment of social circumstances at all and what Serbia needs to do. It's always welcome to criticise the positive opposition. She's welcome if she's well-intentioned and there are suggestions on what to do. Again, I would like to get the opposition's proposal on how Serbia can resolve the huge public debt issue that was encountered a year ago and the huge expenditure on interest and payment of the capital of five billion euros a year. If you have a solution for that, I guess we'll find a solution for one oak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20607	The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS will not vote for this amendment. We fully know that some, in fact, know that some of the local self-governments are in a difficult situation, and that is why more so with the few resources they have in mind and a good host and a good businessman. It may be the same for the Majdanpek Municipality, although I doubt that the Majdanpek Municipality is in exactly the same condition. I've spent a part of my life like this and I know pretty well the political situation in the Majdanpek municipality territory. During all these discussions, the DS has at least verbally advocated a certain justice, so that citizens are deprived of funds from their pockets, that they want a social state, a fair state, but it's only here in the Assembly when they're opposition. When they're in power, they don't take money from citizens, they take it. So let's say, the president of Majdanpek Municipality, Dragan Popovic, has received no less or less social assistance as the president of the Municipality of Majdanpek Municipality's budget. It damaged the budget by 2 million 434 thousand dinars. As far as I know Mr Popovic, and I know him because he's from Lower Milan, he's from DS. To make the matter even more interesting, when it comes to the health of our children, a certain Irena Barbulovic, addressed the letter to the Municipal Council of Majdanpek, asking for assistance for costs to maintain a high risk of pregnancy. The municipal council rejected the proposal, with a comment from the president of the municipality receiving social assistance, his salary is low, although he also has a phone official, secretary and official car, he rejected his request with an explanation that she had not become pregnant and would not even remember to appeal, but since she is now concerned, it has already started. Now, as far as we care about birth, the next fact goes, that same Irena Barbulovic, five days after childbirth, and at that birth she got triplets, got fired from the Maydanpek Music School. One reason, apart from humanitarian aid, is because her husband directly sued the president of the municipality of Dragan Popovic in words that we would be paid for final work and contracted obligations, we were blackmailed to give a certain percentage. This was demanded by the president of the municipality, in the following text – from the Democratic Party, with the name and last name Dragan Popovic. That's what it looks like when the Democratic Party is ruling, and the government is still somewhere in some municipality, and we're not going to talk about the Golubac and some other municipalities, and it's very little that they have the resources, so little that they can't steal anymore, but rather ask the Republic of Serbia's budget to let them continue their old work, which was at the time of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party's amendment in the voting day will not support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20609	I'm thinking about setting a short break of 30 minutes so let's get on with it, if that's what you're up for. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20610	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, which says in its 2nd position – at the session of the National Assembly, it is not allowed to address the MP directly to another MP, to use offensive expressions, nor to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. You could at least read your mother's initials. Whether it's true or not, you shouldn't have given this lady's name and name. Even if she had threes, and fours and twos, only one child, you could say initials, here's the initials of that woman, that's what she was called. Dragan Popovic is a public figure, the president of the municipality. If he's wrong about the law, the D.A.'s race will answer. Don't put these other people out there, you used to do that when you were wearing a badge, with those people who got hurt in NATO bombing, so you used to tell them here, what kind of anxiety, does it hurt your past, if it hurts a lot, here's my first anti-shock therapy, so I'll talk. Here's ten seconds to prepare and 30 minutes break the president has set for you. So this is what you did when you were wearing a badge. This is how you used to crucify your victims again, name, last name. It's degutant. Don't do that. Because of you, I'm telling you, not for me. For the dignity of this house. Protect at least the names and last names of ordinary people who don't deal with politics, who don't want to be brought into the mire and mud. Let them at least stay clean. Get us dirty from the Democratic Party. That's where you all order yourselves. I'm surprised both the heads of Parliament didn't replicate. Take a handful of mud, shoot us, but don't let these ordinary people, let them face life, the way you created it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20611	Mr. Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20612	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know which institution they left the door open. About this amendment, I really have to say that it's not right that the new government in less than a year didn't make the highway from Pojat to Cačka, it's really not right, given that the former didn't do it in 12 years. Someone who hasn't done it in 12 years expects others to finish it in a year. It's a miracle that someone owed the country 19 billion, which is only 800 million interest a year. For these 800 million, two highways can be made from Pojata to Cačka, only for interest on the debt remaining from the previous government. It would be a wonder if that person hadn't supported the government that invented 500 thousand jobs right away. These imaginary jobs would certainly make several roads from Pojat to Cačka. I think the contributions, which would be paid by those 500 thousand workers, pay taxes, etc., would strengthen this budget, so we wouldn't need these rebalancings. No wonder this isn't about the previous government that left us the right to repay their debts, and in the last year alone, it was between two and a half billion and four billion, I'm not a very good mathematician that far and with such great numbers I can handle. Those who lived very happily from the man in charge, and not from the earner, when we could not earn as much as they could spend, they said, "Dear citizens who cut you." What you couldn't earn, we'll assign you, and we'll spend, and we'll leave the debts to those who haven't been born yet, and to those who are under the age of paying back the debts for the former regime's actions and misdeeds. I wouldn't be surprised if they hadn't sold out all the social property, spent it, not spending that money on other people's work, living on hard work. I wouldn't be surprised if some liberator was talking about the oak. Under that oak were once gathered our ancestors rising up against the occupiers. Under that same oak, in 1999, guns were divided to confront another aggression. They didn't give my predecessor a gun. They gave my predecessor a shovel. They didn't know which side they were going to shoot. So, nothing would surprise me if some who were braver in action talked about the oak, and apparently they were just braver to eat. So I wouldn't be surprised if they were very brave people talking about it, and I'm going to say they're very brave. That's what I'm gonna say in the end, but I'm gonna say something here about the amendment. The amendment is fine, I'd accept it, but it's worth saving. What's unacceptable to me, and I've already turned my attention to the minister last time, so I don't know who made this table. So it's about the local roads. It is almost amazing that Bolec has 115 kilometers, Gornji Milanovac 145, Negotin 125, Bor 115, Ivanica 90 and something, Dimitrovgrad 87, Književec 94, etc., etc. It's interesting that Indjia is 11, Kikinda 10, it's unacceptable. There are far more local roads in these municipalities. If you've cut everyone's funds, then you should've even fixed this table. I warned you last time. Say, Majdanpek's 75. That's where the president receives social assistance, and he has 10 times more means of road maintenance than indji and kikinda. So I'm going to say that I agree that they are very brave people, very brave, not because they're not afraid of anything, but because they're not ashamed of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20613	Minister Dinkic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20614	Let me tell you about what you asked. These kilometers in municipalities were not deployed by the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Regional Development, from which we pulled the data. According to what I know, these are data made by JP "The Ways of Serbia", or some of the institutions, that it is not exactly 100% someone who deals with roads, when two years ago they transferred regional roads to maintaining local self-government, in the mandate of the previous government, then some of those organisations that deal with the region distributed in this way. We wondered how it was arranged like this because, I don't know, in Sandzak, I don't know how many miles of roads to those poor municipalities like Tutin, let's say, some less. So it's a completely unreasonable schedule. I asked why it didn't change. Anyway, the schedule didn't work either for my ministry, or for regional development, but for some of the institutions outside the government, I mean, from state institutions, but not in the government itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-04-0.u20615	I'm setting a 15-minute break. We'll continue at 21 hours and 10 minutes. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, continued to work. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the search of all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, I remind you of Article 175(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may set a day for voting on the draft budget during the National Assembly session, without waiting for the debate to be concluded in principle and in particular on the other points of the agenda. According to that provision, it sets Friday, July 5, 2013, starting at 11.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 with proposals for decisions to give consent to amendments and amendments to financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations for 2013. After the vote, we will proceed with the session's work. Thank you very much.
