ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24458	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 88, which says the President of the National Assembly opens the session and, on the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, finds the number of MPs present in the National Assembly. If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day, at least 84 MPs are not present in the sitting room, the start of work will be delayed by one hour. This was to be done by article 87 at 10.00, because the National Assembly, as a rule, works from 10.00. It's Thursday and it's 10.25 hours. I know Mr. Cvian can make up for the quorum, but since he's gone, you can have a quorum with someone else. It's not good to be late every day like this. Find a replacement for Mr. Cvian, if he won't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24459	Thanks for that warning. I remind you that the obligation of all MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, is to insert their cards into MPs' units to confirm the quorum, because it is not only the obligation of the ruling coalition MPs, but of all those who receive wages in the National Assembly. Anyway, we keep working. Today, on the basis of Article 287(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, MPs have the right to request information or explanations. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Neven Florist, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24460	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I refer my question to the minister of education, science and technological development in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Professor Tomislav Jovanovic, and it concerns the credibility of doctoral studies organised by universities in Serbia. I do not want to ask this question as some forced criticism, as the minister is new, that he has just taken office and that he is before the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development has shown that he is aware of this problem of the credibility of doctoral studies at universities in Serbia, but I want to ask this question as an appeal, first of all to the academic public, and then to all the institutions of the system, to solve this problem. What's the problem? We are all aware, in previous years in Serbia, of the large inflation of doctoral titles, of a large number of people who have doctoral titles and should ask the question – how credible they are because they are with doctoral diplomas as well as with money. The more they print, the less they're worth. Finally, concrete data from the Republic Bureau of Statistics say that in the last five years, the number of defensive PhDs has increased from 206 to 561, which means that in our education system, we have started to share PhDs with hand and hat, regardless of whether or not we have serious scientific work. Also, the number of doctoral students, so-called PhDs, increased by five years. Now, watch this number, from a thousand to five thousand, which means that in Serbia today we have five thousand who claim to be doctors of science in one, two, three or four years, so it turns out that in our country, we live all dry geniuses to geniuses and that every neighborhood has a doctor of science. Here's another piece of information. For example, five years ago, there were 63 PhDs in Shumadia, and today there are 757. It's not the Woodchuck that's after the worst. It is also good compared to what is happening in other parts of the state, for example in Belgrade. Watch out for this information that's fascinating. In Belgrade alone, the number of PhDs increased by five years from 405 to 2,967, over six times. If we take into account the fact that in the history of Belgrade University, in 205 years, the Belgrade University produced 8.5,000 doctors of science, and that in just the last few years or years, 3,000 were produced, then it is clear what this is all about. If we keep this up, in 10 or 20 years, we'll have tens of thousands of doctors of science, so they won't have anyone to do specific jobs, because they'll all be sitting in cafes with doctoral titles and wisdom. Is Serbia a country the size of Germany or Italy, so that there are so many doctors of science? We have the same number of doctors in science, and we have several times fewer residents. What I want to ask as a concrete question to the Minister of Education is – what concrete measures does the ministry see as useful to solve this problem and how would, as once again, doctoral titles get only the best and most professional ones, and not to share it as fuel stamps? It's destroying our education system. The minister has shown that this problem is conscious and my question – what are the concrete measures to address this problem? Let me finally conclude one more thing, that the education system during communism, no matter what anyone thinks about communism, was better and fairer than the education system during what we now call "wild capitalism", where we can only get a degree if paid. Titulu, the diploma should be given to the one who learned something, who deserved it by his work. Finally, someone can say – what is now an important topic for Serbia of some doctoral title? Someone can say – doctoral titles are not used on bread, what is it now important for Serbia? But if we don't fix this problem once, that everyone gets what they deserve, with our concrete work, we won't create a system in which the children of all of us here and the citizens today will have bread tomorrow. If we don't separate the wheat from the weeds once and make a difference between those who learn and don't learn, we won't have quality in either the state or the institutions. I'd be done with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24461	Thank you. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24462	Thank you, Mr. President. I think everyone in this room shares the horror with me when he reads the titles of the guy – a 18-year-old student in Novi Pazar knifed another student's father, a fifth in Arangelovac beat up the champion and badly injured him, in Novi Sad the founding man who sat in the park, in Leskovec 13-year-old has 136 criminal charges, that I don't order any further. Recently, data were released that in less than a year there was one murder in Belgrade, three attempted murder, 16 serious bodily injuries, 65 criminal acts of violent behavior, and the perpetrators were children up to 18 years of age, so minors. It is suspected that minors are also responsible for 121 muggings, 724 heavy thefts, 683 thefts, 31 car thefts, 22 drug trafficking and 114 criminal acts of intoxicating drugs. I purposely cited this as a fact, it's all happening in Belgrade in a year. The perpetrators are minors. The problem directly related to juvenile delinquency is certainly peer violence. One survey in Serbia says that 65 students during their schooling have at least once been exposed to some form of aggressive behaviour, and on the other hand, another regional survey says that 70% of students support violence against women and peers. Well, it's obvious that violence is a phenomenon that's a big fan of our society, but it's also obvious that no one is involved in this phenomenon. Everyone puts their head in the sand, everyone puts the problem under the carpet, and the problem doesn't open. Of course, the state itself knows how to be violent. We had the opportunity to see yesterday and the other day in Ljig, when the state, by sticking to formal reasons, simply extradited a three-year-old child to a bully, making concessions I don't know who and disrespecting the provisions of the convention that it says – in the best interests of the child. I'll talk about it later. I'll go back to juvenile violence. Violence and crime among minors in Serbia have grown three times in the last decade, and science says it has been proven to be a very close link between peer violence and virtual violence. It's quite clear, and science also says that the main problem is that all of this is actually the degraded position of the family. This government has also, as the previous one, placed all the misfortunes and hardships of difficult and economic conditions on the back of the family. The family struggles to survive physically and survive, to hire their members, and there is no time to deal with the development of their minors. On the other hand, those institutions that the state has made to deal with also education and to worry about raising young generations, young people, they are not doing their job. We've had opportunities to watch the elementary school law that says that school is not about education, it's about education. Then we also have a problem with inadequate use of young people's time, where everything also costs parents. Taking part in some sport, taking part in a club, some creative workshop, it costs everything, and parents can't follow their children's needs. In addition, we have one negative impact on the means of mass communication. We have the "Farm" kids watch, we have media that turn into the main characters of half-world and people on the other side of the law. Interestingly, all the institutions that were made wash their hands and say they are not directly responsible for this problem, but someone else is responsible. The other day, following in the paper what happened in Novi Pazar, I was really distracted by the statement of the director who said - I am not responsible, it happened two metres from entering school. So, absolutely everybody washes their hands of this. We have a problem with having a very mild juvenile delinquency law, which is very mildly sanctioned by those who are wrongdoers. Not to spread the story further, I believe that without systemic measures, without a clear attitude who, what or how he does, this can't work. So I ask the prime minister – when will he finally deal with the status of the family? When will the government finally start dealing inter-resorously with the problem of violence? I ask the Minister of Education – when will schools start to train, that is, when will the concept of school become both an educational and educational institution? When will various projects, such as “A school without Violence and the Exchange of Violent Communications, ” really become available to all schools, not just a single sample? Since it is impossible for a campaign to do much for this problem, I simply ask the Minister of Culture - how will he get involved in solving this problem? I also ask the Minister of Justice – when will a new law on juvenile delinquency be passed? Finally, a question for the Minister of Sports – when will free sport finally enter the primary schools and secondary schools of this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24463	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a question for Minister Mihajlovic, who last week had the opportunity to watch the Insider show, where she participated and presented several very interesting assessments regarding the totally embarrassing privatisation of NIS, i.e. "The oil industry of Serbia", which she herself said was one of the most dangerous jobs in our country's history. Our question is: has anything been done about redefining the agreement with Russia? Did he leave any formal request for a Russian partner to try to renegotiate the agreement? She stressed herself that the ministry is unable to change anything more in the agreement. However, we see that there is an experience from the region where, for example, Croatia has managed to buy its share, i.e. the INA is now re-owned by the Republic of Croatia and the Hungarian MOL has been paid. So such solutions exist. We learned from that show that NIS was sold for 400m euros, that the estimate was at two billion, and now we find that the total oil finds exploited by the same NIS seven billion dollars, so we also have a question for Mr. Bačevic – why is it a three-dollar mining rental? Why is the mining rent not increased, when we know that 10, 20 or 30 dollars is in the environment, or even in that same Russia that NIS bought, or "Gasprom"? Which is why progressive ore rentals are not introduced, when we see domestic oil sources exploits increase significantly, would these same sites not be dried up, until the mine is increased? The third question is for the first vice president, Mr. Vukic – is any state body involved in the investigation of this most embarrassing privatisation? Who exactly estimated NIS to be 400 million euros since we found out it was some kind of state secret? Do we know who inspires such ideas that such a transaction takes place, since they sacrificed the future generations of their children for one term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24465	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24466	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to refer the question to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry, and in essence, I'd like to refer the question to the Government. What's the government's plan to get out of the economic crisis, when it's already been diagnosed as a serious cancer? Ten days ago we heard some announcements, some plans about taking certain steps, that there are certain crisis measures. It's been 10 days, and in the meantime nothing happens in terms of at least trying to heal the economy. However, the situation is coming together. Serbia's re-emerges with one requirement for the state to guarantee 200m euros in future borrowing. With 300m euros in costing us "Zeljezara" for 2014, this 500m euros in Serbia's 2014 budget will literally be burdened, thus devising all those benefits expected from a solidarity tax, i.e. a VAT increase. I remind you that this solidarity tax is a tax on unspeakable earnings of over 60,000 dinars. No matter what you claim, 60,000 dinars really aren't some month's pay. When you increase VAT from 8% to 10% on basic needs, such as bread, milk, or, as is gas, in that case, it is clear to you that you will significantly endanger the existence of all citizens of this country. In the meantime, what does the government do to at least send out a clear, encouraging signal that it will not only take, but will also work on spending what was taken in the best way? Do what you can to keep your mouth shut. So, what does it mean that all those crisis measures that you so bombically announced, about which you held press conferences, will they remain just an empty letter on paper and just another affair that was filling the cover of the tabloids, or was it for one story so that citizens would not realize that this government is incompetent and that this government has no capacity to fight a serious crisis in which the Serbian economy is located? The European Commission has come out in its annual report with the view that the state has too much influence in the economy, very little protection for the private sector, i.e. there is no protection and, moreover, the private sector is quite marginalised. It is the private sector that brings certain benefits to Serbian citizens, unlike the public sector, especially public enterprises. This is why the European Commission has only confirmed LDP policy, and we have been talking for months about the biggest problem of the Serbian economy being public enterprises and the public sector, which obviously does not allow anything to be done in terms of improving this economy. The economic downturn for this year is 1.7%, and you expected some growth. What does it all say about, what do you expect, what do you plan and what do you actually realize? He's talking about not taking anything seriously and not doing it, and besides some verbal push for various fights, corruption, organised crime, or against economic collapse, you mostly tap into the place. What have you done with the board of directors in public enterprises? What did you do with the election of directors of public enterprises, with supervisory committees? What did you actually do to reform these public enterprises in that sense, so that they would no longer be the greatest burden and, in fact, the hardest stone in the economy?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24467	National MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24468	Thank you. I will ask for a notice and ask a few questions to the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, and the basis of my address is the letter from this ministry No 07-00-0011/2013-04, from 13 August this year, addressed to the President of the Assembly of the Municipality of Zitište, in the case and on the question of confirming the mandate of the Council of the Municipality of Žitište, where in the last paragraph, it is said that the measures taken in the specific case should be agreed to Article 78 and Article 80(3). The law on local self-government, please inform the submitor and this ministry. My question, and therefore, the notice, is in this very sense, the applicant of the presentation is Councilman Milan Pasic, and he is obviously not informed about the actions taken, and my question is – has the Ministry been informed about the measures taken by the Assembly of the Municipality of Žitište? Essentially, this may seem a political issue, but in order to really avoid any additional political connotation, in my explanation of the issue and the request for notification, I will not really mention any political party, nor the current majority that is in the process, therefore, asked questions from the request for an explanation, but I would like to speak in principle because it is a confirmation of the term of office of Milan Pasic, a teacher from Tork, who received assurance from the Election Commission of the Municipality of Žitište, on 8 July 2013, which is listed under I-013-5/2013, on the basis of which the Assembly of the Municipality of Žitište, i.e. the current majority refuses to confirm this mandate on several occasions. Indeed, we have witnessed several times that we have listened to in practice certain problems relating above all, the provision that the mandate belongs to the council, this seems to be a unique case and I would ask, indeed, this time and the Ministry – is there, or is it familiar with other cases like this in the Republic of Serbia? I believe that, above all, the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, we MPs, the public, should at all be familiar with all the information and practice of applying the law in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. it does not apply. I believe that in this way and only the Ministry and we, on the basis of this information, can take certain measures in the future to make changes and additions to laws, certain sublegal acts, so that these situations do not happen. In particular, Commissioner Milan Pasic has confidence, the current majority refuses to include in the daily agenda of the Assembly of the Municipality of Žitište a confirmation of the mandate, i.e. on the Administrative-Mandating Commission on several occasions. For this reason, I appreciate and think that this is really not a topic of both political and local character, because this way the electoral will of citizens practically takes the current majority into its own hands, this time to the Assembly of the Municipality of Zitiste. I really don't think that's a political issue anymore, but a question and human rights, the rule of law, because it must not be allowed to allow any current majority in the Republic of Serbia, in the event that certain views of the committees, the way of thinking and how it will present those views on behalf of citizens do not belong, but simply the citizens in the elections decide who will represent them. Of course, this lack of action back three months in the Assembly of the Municipality of Žitište is not known who the committees are, and certainly in this case there are no 31 committee members in the current assembly of the Assembly of the Municipality of Žitište, as it is prescribed by the acts and should not be said that, in this sense, indeed at this time, the Assembly of the Municipality of Žitište does not have the legitimacy to decide, nor does it work properly in the interests of the citizens. For this reason, I really appreciate that this is a matter of principle and I want to get one more notice from the Ministry of Regional Development, did it receive feedback from the president of the Assembly of the Municipality of Žitište on confirming the mandate of Milan Pasic and are there other similar cases in the conduct of local self-government in the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24469	National MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24470	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the President of the Republic of Serbia, and it concerns the increasing risk of free elections that is one of the fundamental constitutional rights. I would like to remind you that during the general elections for the president of the Republic, parliamentary elections and local elections, through one voter deception, the current president created a confusion among the citizens whether there was an election theft. Turns out you weren't stealing a choice. However, after the elections, some local elections were followed by vote purchases, open vote purchases, some parties or groups of citizens were buying votes, and some were buying votes. There were threats to citizens, there were beating and using state resources for election purposes, cars, money, etc. I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent authorities - how long did it take to investigate a case of vote buying in Novi Sad, in local elections? I ask, have the men who were found and brought to justice in the previous elections held in Vrbas been beaten by Danil Bobic? Threatened the girl who was with him? Deprived Danil Bobic of his freedom and threatened him with this election law, Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Freedom of movement, Article 39. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? And some other principles written in the highest legal act by the Republic of Serbia. I ask, also, the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia – how many vehicles have the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia been on the official trip to Vrbas from October 1st to 13th? How many miles did they cross, and who issued travel orders for those trips, and what occasion did they travel? I ask – who finances billboards with characters and messages from party SNS officials in the cities of Vojvodina? I point out the example of Vrsco and Novi Sad although we know that advertising past the election is illegal. Is the procedure for spreading false information and harassing citizens due to the alleged theft of votes before the elections, the presidential elections, the second round I set at the beginning of this speech? On the other hand, I would ask the President of the Republic of Serbia about his statement yesterday, which is non-state and is damaging to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia about the fact that President Tadic allegedly left him nothing and that he had to start from scratch, so I ask him if he knows that President Tadic was the most prominent president of the Republic of Serbia in the last 20 years he visited and met with most of the world's statesmen, does he know that President Tadic has been a proponent of the region's peace right on the political ruins left by Mr Nikolic's party? Does he know that Mr Tadic has actively participated and contributed to the abolition of visas for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, re-recovering the consequences of Mr Nikolic's policy and his party at the time? Does he know that Mr. Tadic...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24471	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24472	I'm done. Two more sentences. ... led to visa waivers, improving the position of national minorities, Serbs in the region and all that was left for us by Mr Nikolic? True, Mr. Tadic did not leave the medal in the safes, and I must admit that Mr. Nikolic is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24473	The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions, I'm going to turn some questions into an appeal first of all for the Ministry of Construction, or the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism. Namely, water supply and water supply, or supplying healthy drinking water in the 21st century, is a little funny, especially here in this tall home. However, in the area of Pirota, a village called Ponor, where there are many agricultural producers. For years back, he's had a serious problem supplying healthy drinking water. Since the local government in Piroth has failed to solve the problem so far, I wouldn't go into it why and why. The public water pipeline company from Pirot has made a complete project and delivered it to the construction ministry, so this time I really ask the department's authorities to ensure that indeed in the 21st century people get healthy drinking water. The second question and appeal refers to the Ministry of Traffic, and it is the regional road Piroth-Kalna-Književec, which directly relies on the Stara Planina and the shortest road that connects eastern and southeastern Serbia, which is not only in a catastrophic state, but simply traffic of the vehicle is, not difficult, but almost impossible, so if we want to develop the Old Mountain and pick up all the benefits, I mean not only the development of tourism but also livestock, I ask this ministry to look at the possibilities as soon as possible to meet, not only the citizens of the Pirot Municipality, but also the Knjižec and Zaječar. The third question is for the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and it is about the following, when there should be another local election to prove the electoral will of the people of Vojvodina, because here now not only in Vrbas but also in Kovin, Srbobran and some other places, the electoral will of citizens does not agree at all with, to say, the situation in Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, so the pih asked the competent ministry to give us some answer as to how and how we will treat and look at this problem in the right way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24475	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ljubica Milosevic, Dijana Vukomanovic and Dragan Tomic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am in addition to the representative of the motions Dr Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, I have called on the members of Brankica Janković and Stana Bozovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy; Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy; Dragan Vulevic, Head of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Department; Radoje Savićić, Head of the Group in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy; Dragan Knezevic, from the Directorate for Gender Equality at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on Social Security and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on Social Security (account). 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th agenda). A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for the laws referred to in points 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. You have time in hand. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on Social Security and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on Social Security. Does the proposal representative Dr Jovan Krkobbic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24476	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the esteemed and respected Members of Parliament and the People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today I will only put you in a few sentences to question these conventions and agreements. It is two international conventions, two international agreements, and these are acts brought by international organisations, therefore, you already know that these agreements, which have been previously discussed, have been adopted interstately and, therefore, remain on us today to adopt these agreements or reject them. I'll start with a few sentences about the Child Protection Convention. The convention we are discussing today was adopted on 29 May 1993 under the auspices of the UN Conference on International Law, private law in response to a number of complex legal and human problems that followed international adoptions. The Convention on International adoption is in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because it guarantees special protection for children without parental ageing and points to enhanced legal and practical measures that allow for co-operation with other countries. According to data from the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy from 2006 to 2012 were on average 11 international adoptions on an annual basis. The ratification of the Convention would allow a greater number of children without parental ageing, which cannot be found within a reasonable period of time by adopters in the Republic of Serbia, to exercise their right to live and develop in a family environment in another country. The ratification of the Convention would strengthen security in international adoption procedures, as it establishes a system of co-operation between authorities in countries of origin and countries of admission and security measures to prevent child abduction, sales and trafficking from being adopted, and this: by preventing economic exploitation and pressure on biological families, by ensuring that only children who really need a family can be adopted in countries outside the Republic of Serbia. The Convention obliges Contracting States to take appropriate measures to improve services after adoption in their countries. After passing the child to the adoption country, and after assessing the central authority of the country that the child's stay in the foster family is not in its best interest, the body can take the necessary measures to protect the child. In that sense, the child may be taken from the adoptor and placed under custody. Child care can be arranged to adopt the child in another family, and a return to the country of origin can be arranged if such measures require the best interest of the child. All these measures shall be implemented with prior notification and agreement with the central authority of the country of origin of the child. The convention has a large number of ratifications, which is certainly an important element of the decision that is also ratified by the Republic of Serbia. It is particularly important that most European countries ratified this international treaty, including countries from a direct environment, and then China, the United States, the Russian Federation. The ratification of this international treaty is of great importance, as the Republic of Serbia would thus join the family of countries that co-operate closely in the area of international adoption, preventing abuses and failures with poor outcomes for children. I must point out that certain states, state institutions and agencies that are implementing international adoption and Sweden from which a significant number of adoptors, who adopt children of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have received a high grade, because this process is approached highly professionally and responsibly, and in the best interests of children without parental ageing. The Republic of Serbia regularly monitors the growth and development of children going to international adoptions, through reports supplied by authorised agencies or by a direct tour of the child in the adoption state. I believe that this Convention provides additional security elements for international adoption and that indeed our Assembly today has a lot of reasons to ratify this Convention. Allow me to present to you in the shortest possible lines a bill confirming the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. The Republic of Serbia signed the 2009 Convention on 4 April 2012 in line with its National Strategy to improve women's position and improve gender equality and the National Strategy for the Prevention and control of violence against women in the family and in partner relations in 2011 and thus ranks 19 member states of the Council of Europe signatories of the Convention. It also envisions the establishment of a European Group of the Council of Europe to fight violence against women and domestic violence with competences based on the principles of non-biased expertise and multidisciplinaryism. Dear People's MPs, respected MPs, violence against women and domestic violence is a difficult social problem facing the Republic of Serbia as well. According to the Social Labour Centre in 2012 we had 9,325 victims and they received some kind of assistance, such as safe houses and other types of assistance, to provide them. Violence mostly took place in the family about 96%. The Social Labour Centres recorded 6,121 perpetrators of violence against children and adults, where 80% of the male sex is. The Republic of Serbia is working to reduce violence by public campaigns, working at a local site, influences that violence does not occur, taking a whole series of measures that are currently in place, including building safe houses. In this direction, every contribution is extremely welcome to the individual and local communities, in order to reduce domestic violence, especially violence against women and children. In light of the proximity of the Republic of Serbia to the EU and the harmonisation of its rules with the legal assets of the EU, it should point out that, at the end of February 2013, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on the elimination and prevention of these forms of violence against women and children, which urged all EU member states to carry out ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and violence in the family, particularly violence against children. Let me now say a few words about the Agreement on Social Protection with Canada, given the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living and working in Canada, as well as the need to further develop and strengthen friendly relations and co-operation in all areas, as well as in the area of social security. The accession of the negotiations in order to conclude the Social Insurance Agreement was mutually beneficial. According to available data, more than 100,000 Serbian citizens live and work in Canada. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada, which established the exercise of pension-inhabitation rights, as well as labour and occupational illness rights, was signed in Belgrade on 12 April 2013. The agreed Agreement contains provisions that will allow insurance and beneficiaries of rights and full protection in the area of pension insurance. The standard solutions and principles that are represented through the provisions of the Agreement are: equal treatment of nationals of contracting countries in the areas of pension insurance, direct payment of the benefits obtained, the user who has obtained the right to give in place of his residence, pensions and other income; collection of periods of insurance completed in both Contracting States for the exercise of pension rights and other duties; the principle of insurance which allows the burden on pension insurance to be borne by that State whose insurance is concerned; the principles of application of the law of the State in which the person is employed, with the exception of posted workers, civil servants, diplomatic and consular representatives who have been provided with social and pension insurance in the country of origin, i.e. by the representatives. The application of this Agreement will have significant effects in the areas of pension and disability insurance, as well as rights for labour injury and occupational illness. For Serbia, the conclusion of the Social Security Agreement is of paramount importance, as it allows our citizens who have lived and worked abroad to make social security rights easier and that these rights can be used in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In the area of social security between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, an identical agreement has been applied with Canada, with one change to regulate the agreement and the health protection of our citizens who are temporarily working in Luxembourg. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24477	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24478	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are facing today a joint single review of the bill's proposal and this: a confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption, then a confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family and two Proposals of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Canada and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on Social Security. At first, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all these above-mentioned drafts of the law. My presentation today will be focused in the first part of the proposal for a law on confirming the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption, and in the second part I will refer to two draft laws on the signing of the agreement. At the very beginning, I will say the basic objectives achieved by the application of this Convention, therefore, the establishment of a system of co-operation between the Contracting States in order to ensure respect for these guarantees and to prevent the kidnapping, sale or trafficking of children and to ensure the recognition of adoption, based in the Contracting States, in accordance with the said Convention. Before I go to international adoption, we should say what the situation is in Serbia. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, child care without parental ageing is achieved by accommodation in another family or social protection institutions. In Serbia, according to official data, some 4,000 children were housed in foster families or institutions, according to those given by the ministry. It is important to say that in Serbia the child's accommodation in social protection institutions is the ultimate measure of child care, the ultimate achievement. But alternative ways of childcare are not yet sufficiently developed in Serbia, as is the case in other countries around us. It is important that in Serbia, 770 couples wait for the adoption of children. I have to say, these people have come a really hard way from trying to get a kid through the natural path, to everything else. Of those 770, and if a child shows up for adoption, it comes down to 12 potential adoptors. Knowing some people who are from Kragujevac, I come from there and I know some people who are trying to have a child, I have to commend the ministry, and I think that this is Mrs. Brankica's lead team, that they really treat these people consistently, and all the criteria are fulfilled when it comes to having a child. Indeed, on the one hand, I must commend it as it is done. We have to be honest and say that every man's natural desire is to have a healthy, beautiful and successful child. That's where they want to adopt a child like that. It's something the adoptors are handling with us. These are people who have usually come a difficult way from trying to have a child by natural means, and then, after that, they go into it all exhausted and it's a natural desire to end it all in the end by adopting a healthy child. Unlike us, foreigners are not full of prejudice when it comes to children being distracted in development, we must be completely honest here and say, and children of Roma nationality. Also, as far as the social and health care system is concerned, he is, unfortunately, still very bad. We have to do a lot of work to make sure that parents with disabled children have no problems and when adoptors come to adopt such children, they see an example of this and find it difficult to decide to adopt such children. When it comes to international adoption, it should indeed be said that in a situation where there are no adopters in Serbia, international adoption is applied. International adoption has proved to be a good measure to promote children and so far experience has shown that foreigners cherish not only the identity, but the origin of the child. I don't want to say now, you've often talked at the Ministry about these kids really making progress, and what's commendable, you follow that child when he's abroad and to the extent that it's fully taken care of in that family where he goes. This will illustrate some data that 90 minors have been adopted in Serbia since 2006, mostly sick and with developmental disturbances. What did it look like, what countries did they go to? We should say that in the United States 40 young people, in Sweden 26, in Canada six, in France and Slovenia, three minors, in Luxembourg, Switzerland and Great Britain went to two and in Croatia, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Kazakhstan, one child. Once again, they were mostly children distracted by development, and it's commendable. When did the legal institution of international adoption begin to apply? After World War II, of course, and in the 1970s, the number of such adoptions has increased significantly and the time that was coming has shown that this kind of adoption follows a series of problems. Simply, there was a need for a multilateral approach. For this reason, on 2 May 1993, under the auspices of the UN Conference on International Private Law, the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption was adopted. It should be said that the Convention establishes minimum standards. Its goal is not to represent the only possible right of adoption. The Convention recognises and recognises the importance of raising a child in the family environment as a condition for its happy and healthy development. The Convention also establishes a system of co-operation between authorities in countries of origin and countries of admission providing conditions for the application of the child's best interests standards and the minimum possible risk of abuse in the process of international adoption. Something needs to be said and what is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as regards the child. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees children the right to enjoy human rights appropriate to their age and social maturity. Also, the Constitution guarantees a child a series of individual rights, which I will also say here: the right to a personal name, the entry into the birth certificate, the right to know its origin, the right to preserve its identity, the protection of mental, physical, economic and any other exploitation and abuse of the rights of a child born in marriage and out of marriage. As far as the Constitution is concerned, there is something to be said about family, mother, or single parents. The Constitution also prescribes special protection for such cases, in the sense that special protection is guaranteed for children who are not cared for by parents and children who are distracted in psychological and physical development, as well as protection of children from child labour, i.e. A ban on children under 15 and a ban on working in jobs that are harmful to the moral or health of children below 18 years of age. Of course, the Convention on International Law is not contrary to those provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, it points to enhanced legal and physical measures that allow for co-operation with other countries to solve this truly, I must say, great problems. Also, this is an important item, based on a thorough adoption, and following an assessment by the central authority of the recipient State that the child's stay in the foster family is not in his best interest, the body can take measures in the best interests of the child. You, Minister, are something about it and said that the ministry really follows every step of that child, so to the extreme extent that at some point if it's not all the way it is in the best interest of the child we can bring that child back to the country. On that side, all you really need to do is say praise. It's really the way it should go on. The convention has a large number of ratifications, an important element of ratification in Serbia. According to some official data I found, the Convention supported 79 countries. Most of them are members of the EU, then the United States, China and the Russian Federation, which says that we really need to ratify this Convention, to enter this round of countries dealing with this international adoption, because I think it is a very important area. In addition to all of the above, in favour of ratification, the Convention is not a negligible fact that Serbia is expected under the ratification of international contracts to ratify the contract as well. At the very end of this Convention, it should be said that its adoption would strengthen the security of international adoption procedures, as it establishes a system of co-operation between the authorities in the countries of reception and the countries of origin of the child in a way that provides conditions for the application and the standard of best interest of the child and the minimum possible risk in the process of international adoption. Once again, regarding this Convention, I will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group, based on all that I have just said, will support this bill. I will now return to the draft laws on agreements and first of all to two agreements and first to the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Canada. I will say at the very beginning that the Single Serbia parliamentary group supports this proposal for an agreement. In secret, we always say from Unique Serbia that each agreement provides a series of opportunities for co-operation and other areas, so we also think about this agreement. It regulates pension and disability insurance and law in the event of injury to work and occupational illness. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 12 April 2013. In order to implement this Agreement, the competent authorities and the parties to the contract may directly communicate in any official language of the Contracting Parties. The agreement is also based on our country's experiences and generally accepted principles in this area, as well as on standards that rule in the EU, which regulate the social security of workers and migrants. What principles are represented through the provisions of this Agreement? The principle of national treatment, the application of the rule of law of the state of employment in determining the obligation to implement social insurance with the exception of the implementation of social insurance of posted persons and diplomatic and consular representatives, the principle of insurance which allows the burden of giving social security to be borne by that insurance undertaking, the addition of a period of insurance completed in both Contracting States in order to exercise the right to give and direct payment of benefits to the beneficiary who has adopted the right to give pensions. As regards the duration and cancellation of this Agreement, it should be said that this Agreement remains in force without restrictions on its duration. Any contracted party may cancel it at any time, with written notice given to the other party 12 months in advance. In the event of the cancellation of this Agreement, all rights granted by its provisions will be detained. This Agreement will continue to apply to all persons who have submitted a request before its cancellation and have met the conditions for the exercise of rights and under the provisions of this Agreement. In short, I would also like to say a few words on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on Social Security. The application of this Agreement regulates pension and disability insurance, work and occupational illness insurance, then health insurance, unemployment insurance and childcare and motherhood insurance. The agreement was signed in Luxembourg in June 2013. For the purposes of applying this Agreement, statements to the competent authorities or to the holders of foreign parties shall be made up in Serbian or French. The request or document cannot be rejected because it is made up in the official language of the other foreign Contracting Parties and the agreement is based on the generally accepted principles and experiences of our country in this area, as well as on EU standards. At the very end, on the basis of the above, I will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the above-mentioned drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24479	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24480	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS parliamentary group will also vote for these two conventions, but I will base my discussion on exactly the two because I think they are very important between these four points that are united. I really think that it is a much more important story about international adoption of children and stories about preventing and combating violence against women and families than these two things that are important, about social security, the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada and Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. I really think these two things are very important, and I think they need a lot to talk about because they need to be talked about very carefully, and I think they need space. I will start with the Hague Convention on Child Protection and Co-operation in the area of international co-operation. We need to come from a few facts that should be taken into account when we talk about this Convention and what it refers to, that is, matter that it is working on, and we need to speak very carefully about it. That's exactly what the committee recommends. This is indeed a very touching matter that needs to be very well considered in parliament so that we can decide. Several facts, and the first of them is that we have already incorporated the provisions of this Convention into our family legislation. They are already within family legislation. Our basic principle and our basic principle is the best interest of the child. That's what the conventions are looking for, and that's what we in our family's legislation have. Serbia has committed to deinstitutionalising all children up to three years of age from social institutions by 2015. We have practically two years to give all children up to three years of age, who are currently in social institutions, to put them in foster homes, to adopt or, if possible, to see that the state is somehow at least considering this possibility, to return to biological families. I'm going to offer a model as possible, so I'm just going to open the discussion. I hope that other colleagues will participate in this and comment. After 2015, we will not put children up to three years of age in social institutions and that is what is most important and I think it is very good. The exception is those children who need intensive medical care, and somehow now we come to the field and to the matter of this convention, they are somehow children who have developmental problems, children who have mental or physical problems, children who are sick, children who need intensive medical care, just those children who go to international adoption. I'll deal with a little profile of those who want to adopt children right away. The profile of our potential adoptors is such that they want to adopt the whites of children, up to the age of seven, the younger the better and the children who are healthy. On the other hand, international adoptors, those who would adopt children are actually those who are willing to adopt children who are sick, who have developmental problems, who need medical care and medical supervision. One more thing makes them different, of course, and Roma children, because they're ready, although more and more our potential adoptors want to adopt Roma children, it's moved, and it's been moved because the campaign was made and I think the campaign is one of the ways I'm going to suggest later. Another interesting thing about this profile. Foreign adoptors have their own children already and are ready to adopt more children and deal with them and our adoptors are actually adopting the first child because they cannot exercise their right to parenting otherwise. That's a very big difference, and maybe you should think about it because we're acting in the child's interest and we're actually looking for a child's parents and not a parent's child. That's the difference, and I think that's what we should be very careful about. Of course, it's quite clear to me that when we don't have all our options we can take that step further, to give the child an international adoption, but I think we start with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Of course, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is very clear here, she says that the child has the right to be cared for in his country, to have the right to be brought up in the spirit of his own measure and in the spirit of his nation. I don't think there's anyone in this room who's going to be controversial. But I especially point out that because I don't think all the possibilities have been exploited and all the capacities that we as a society have and that somehow we give up our children in that direction that we've exhausted all our options and we're moving on. I think actually, what I just mentioned, it's a biological family is a capacity that we have to use a lot more. Of course, I absolutely wish you didn't get me wrong, I'm not saying this because the foster family is a bad variant, it's a much less bad variant than it is a home, than it is a social institution, but the biological family is what the child needs most. I therefore believe that if the state were to define that the biological family is much more concerned, to help them materially at least as much as it helps the foster child, to help her with the advisory, to always have a social worker who will be with the family, to raise up a number of services that will help the family to deal with its disabled child and the child who has developmental problems, then indeed the family would be able to take care of its member, as well as when other people in this country who want to be potential adoptive know that all these things exist, so that there are services, that indeed the state has made sure that it helps every parent who wants to raise a child who has problems in development, they would also prefer to opt for children who have problems in development or are sick and adopt them. I don't think this society is running this campaign, unfortunately. Somehow we give up on it and it seems to me that it would be the right way to really help both the biological family and the children who are in trouble and find themselves looking for a family for them. What I see is that the state prefers to define itself as a foster family and a large number of children, I have to be very precise, I've been looking for data and data is moving on how many children are in foster families from 4,000, 4,500 to 6,500. It's just amazing that so many different data are related to children in foster families. Let's say it's 4,000, let's say it's the smallest number and somewhere the ministry is operating on that number, but it's a very large number of children, it's a very large number of foster families, and what foster care actually does, as far as I'm concerned, and as far as I'm concerned, the development of a child is unfavourable because it's a state of mind. So kids aren't given into foster care, so they're going to have a permanent status, that's the current state, a condition that's going to take a short time to prepare the child for adoption and everything else. So it's going to change the family again. I've always thought that maybe it's much better and cheaper at the end of the country, although I don't like comparing these two things, the relationship between a family that needs to raise a child and whether they're paid or not, so I've always thought that foster care is actually one short step that the state needs to take as short as possible, to find a permanent place for the child and to have a place to develop. On the other hand, I have to mention the problem, and I'm talking about problems just because I think we should talk about our institutions very seriously and analytically to know if we're ready to take a step like adopting these conventions. So, foster care is under question in many situations, many are talking about foster families going into foster care because of the money the state is giving, which I don't want to judge right now. I have situations as a folk MP, that we are addressed by parents who want to adopt children, so adoptors, not parents, and come across various situations. The foster families are talking to us. What I'm saying is, I'd like somewhere to analyze the work of foster families, what we've achieved with the concept of foster care, without me assessing it, and to discuss it very seriously, where our difficulties, our problems, what we're going to do with it, what we need to do. I think it's time to talk about it, because we've been working on it for a number of years, and I think it's okay. The interesting thing is that 887 boys and girls up to 10 years old are now in foster homes awaiting adoption. On the other hand, you have information that 780 couples are waiting for their children to be adopted and 60 others who are also waiting for adoption from abroad. What happens now, why are these two numbers disproportionate and are we going to change something as a society? Are we going to work on the education of our potential adoptors or are we going to fulfill our wishes? Let's say -- you know, we need a kid with blue eyes, heights and so on, paraphrasing some of the things I read, but they made me feel sick. I think we should work on foster education and solve a process that obviously stands. I'm sorry, between those two numbers that are very close, there is a disproportionateness that first refers to the material resources of the state that are being spent in that sense, and on the other hand, the one that I really advocate, is that these children are currently in a position not to know their status. They just need to be adopted. I want to say that it's a good thing we're finally going to talk about this convention just because it regulates permanent relations between the states of the one from which the child is adopted and the one in which the child goes, because so far it's illogical that we have a relationship with agencies as a state, because the agencies abroad were the ones who were in charge of adopting our children. That's good and it solves the state of things pretty good. I don't think this convention is in itself controversial, but I'd like to discuss what we can do to make as few of our children go into international adoption as possible, to stay here. For me it was defeated when you said, I heard it here on the board – they're better off there because they're being dealt with there. That's enough talking about us, and that's not right what he's saying about us. Because if someone's working there, and we don't do business here, and our job is to do business, then that's not good. The second convention I want to talk about is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence. It is a very important thing, and I think it is a matter which both the female network of this Parliament and how it deals and wants to deal with it until the end, but my parliamentary group is very serious about this topic, and we think it is a good thing that this convention was in front of us, because the phenomenon of violence and domestic violence is really progressive, and in just a few years, 20% or 30% more violence is increased compared to last year. The convention refers to taking over the country's very precise and demanding obligations to prevent violence against women and domestic violence. Certain members of this convention also refer to violence against children, which is natural because the situation is such that where violence is against a woman or mother, it is a child who either directly suffers this violence or is abused as an observer of violence. The adoption of this document is Serbia's international commitment, and especially after the report by the Committee on Combating Violence, it is very important that we discuss this. When I spoke about the previous one, we actually do not know the true state of domestic violence and violence in Serbia against women. We have a bunch of different data. The state has one, a civilian sector to another. I have to talk about this because the civil sector has been really serious about this subject and it's been working very well for years. So what we read in the media is terrible. For example, in 2011, 29 women were killed in 2012, 24, and only in the first eight months of this year, the data I found was 42. This shows enough how domestic violence is progressively multiplied. Serbia has strategic documents. Serbia really has a National Strategy to fight violence. Serbia has action plans. Serbia has a very good law, such as Family Law, which should be renovated in some parts, but the Criminal Law must be amended, but our laws are generally quite solid. Serbia has institutions, but violence against women and violence against children remains present and, I say again, it is growing. We had a situation where violence, for example, against a woman was even in a safe house. It's rare, very rare, but it was possible for us. The first study on the prevalence and characteristics of violence against women in central Serbia was done on a representative sample, I must say, is the research done between 2009 and 2012 under the UN Development Programme and the Agency for Gender Equality. This study shows that 54% of women were abused at one point, and 38% of women remain abused in this country. The data suggests that the most common abuser is a husband, an ex-husband, or an intimate partner, and what is most frightening is that for a woman the most dangerous place is her home. Family home is the most dangerous place for a woman. I'll read a sentence that I didn't say, but it's very important, and if it sounds like it's being pronounced by the opposition -- although the state says it's done a lot to protect women and prevent violence against them, there are no major improvements in general. These improvements can be seen in individual cases. The fact that 42 women were placed in the safe house and were not killed not to be placed there, in which women were able to exercise their rights and get out of the circle of violence or were protected by the institutions. A woman from the Autonomous Women's Centre, Jelena Keserovic, made that statement. What's the main problem, I'm talking about our institutions, protecting women from violence? These are the unrelated system, the unrelated work of institutions, the non-monitoring of all procedures and procedures prescribed, the mild penalties and the ultimately lack of records of the number of women exposed to violence. Someone says the numbers are high, they're very large. Someone says they're very small. This shows that we do not know the right measure, and that on the other hand, the state prescribes measures and does not know what capacity it has, does not know what it prescribes. Actually, we're going in the fog and that's not good. The data says that at least one institution always knew that violence against women was committed and that the threat of death was expressed, but it did not react, it did not consider the situation dangerous enough, and then it was most often the tragic outcome, or the woman was killed. What's the problem with collecting data and interpreting them? The fact that institutions are actively supplying the requested information, the data is unsystematic and we cannot monitor the real situation in violence. The second question, the question of the social work centre, has triggered their significant role as given by the Family Law, and they have, when I talk about the role, the authority to press charges for domestic violence under official duty, to seek temporary protection against violence. Unfortunately, the victims suggest that this is exactly why social work centres need to help them not get it, but they get advice by launching certain procedures, providing information about accommodations. I have to say, most often, the police and social work centres are being pulled out, so to speak, and they say -- you know, the victim didn't cooperate. International standards, good practice says that the victim does not need to cooperate and that it is not realistic to expect the victim to initiate these actions. That's what those in charge of the state should do. The next problem is mild penalties, and I would like to mention this case that I already mentioned in Ljig, which is how our country relates to this problem. The SOS phone problem in many areas has been choked. It's a double standard that's been reached at some point, and now it's fallen. Not to talk any further, we won't have those SOS phones in many local environments. Why am I saying this? For the sake of seeing if our institutions are prepared to honor all of this in this Convention, whether our institutions in Article 57 can provide free legal assistance. Then, can our country be sure, does it have instruments to say all the data of sexually abused children are secret when we have the opportunity to follow in the media, except there are no pictures and the name of the child, all the data of the neighbor, the street, the school. It all says, just doesn't write the child's name. So these are the data that must be secret to us. Furthermore, most importantly, do we have as state instruments to follow the implementation of the convention that we want to adopt or do we think that it will remain a dead letter on paper and we will talk that we adopted it and we will raise the standard of our services and, who says, talk about it? I don't think it's serious that we're talking about this if we keep in mind that our institutions aren't ready for this. The Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for both conventions. We think they're necessary. We think they're very powerful instruments in the hands of the state, but I don't think we're ready for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24481	The word has a folk MP, Slavica Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24482	Dear President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, unfortunately it is hardly a day goes by that on the front pages of the paper there is no news of the terrible abuses and the monstrous killings that occur in families. The most common victims are actually the weakest and most sensitive, and these are mostly women and children. Many international institutions such as the UN, the International Criminal Court of the Council of Europe have adopted different conventions, statutes and recommendations, such as the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, the Sidou Convention, the Rome Statute and all those put in focus the setting of standards and mechanisms of gender equality, the prevention of violence against women and the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. The conclusion is that equality between men and women is a fundamental factor in preventing violence against women. In Istanbul on 11 May 2011, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and the Family today was adopted. The objectives of this Convention are to protect women from violence, to combat discrimination, to strengthen women, to help victims of violence, and to support bodies and organisations dealing with this problem. In numerous studies in the world, but also in Serbia, nearly 60% of families with violence against women also have violence against children, and if a woman had to ask the authorities of the state, children are victims in almost 100% of cases. All women from one of the studies were exposed daily to various types of violence. The most common is physical violence during which women, but also children are constantly physically abused, beaten, and rarely killed. State and other institutions have often overlooked the degree of danger, and the environment felt that they were not concerned with the events of other people's family. All this points to the conclusion that society in general has been somewhat denied by this Convention in terms of psychological and economic violence against women. In our society poor and with major economic problems, most families are in a difficult position, women are mostly those who are not employed or are first fired as a technological surplus in businesses or because of child care or older ones give up their careers and thus become completely economically dependent. By ratification of the Convention, we undertake to take the necessary legislative measures to improve women's rights, as well as to prevent discrimination by including the principles of equality and, most importantly, by applying sanctions. The moment the sanctions are fully in place, I believe that these percentages in the investigation of violence will be slightly different. It is mandatory to organise systems to control the implementation of these measures and programmes, but also to support NGOs dealing with these topics. Although we are a rather conservative and patriarchal society, small steps towards improvement are nevertheless steps and a move towards a healthier and stronger society, so it is necessary to take organised actions to promote gender equality and eradicate prejudice towards women, where women are considered inferior, weaker, less relevant to the social community. These actions must be supported by state institutions, civil society, but also by cultural and sports institutions, as well as by public information funds. Currently, one of our daily papers publishes a felton about women prisoners who killed their partners after many years of monstrous abuse. A large number of women and men are very emotionally responding to these confessions, and that is one of the objectives of this convention. It is also recommended to introduce it into schools, in some cases, the subject of gender equality and the prevention of violence against women. Another survey found that more women addressed the Centre for Social Work, expected to receive protection measures against violence. Many women stated that they had not received any response or help, that the report of violence was mostly just recorded but that no help had been provided, or long waited for, and sometimes it had arrived when it was too late. Many say that the center employees are most often advised to make peace with their husband, to return to him and that it is best for children. Some were even convicted and largely ignored the problem of violence, even though the victims had apparent injuries, or the police confirmed a delicacy of violence. This is, of course, a serious accusation on the account of the Social Labour and Obligation Service that we are taking on this very convention is that there is a serious education of all employees who come in contact with victims of violence and especially to take care of the support and mental characteristics of each victim individually. We also assume on ourselves the obligation to open safe houses for victims of violence, especially for women and children, but that these safe houses are truly safe. We all remember the case, he was mentioned by Milica, just a few months ago, when a bully walked into a safe house in the middle of the day and apparently tried to kill his own wife. We already have SOS phones, but we should continue to work on promoting these numbers that victims can report to at any time during the day, because research has also revealed that victims of violence are even more likely to report to SOS phones than they do to social work centres or police. It has been particularly stressed that police have the least impacted that violence is reduced and that even violence has increased or worsened since the intervention. What is still the problem with us is that many victims of violence did not have access to legal drugs against perpetrators of violence, but also against those bodies that failed to fulfil their duty and thus contributed to the absence or extension of violence. This Convention requires the introduction of these institutions into the legal system as well. There is also material compensation, especially for those who have sustained serious physical injuries. In our society, cases of forced marriage appear occasionally, most often in the Roma population, because of their long-standing tradition involving and selling underage brides. This Convention obliges us that such marriages must be annulled without unnecessary financial and administrative burden on the victim. It is also stated that, with physical, sexual and psychological violence and persecution, it must be incriminated. It must be incriminating and sexual harassment, as well as forced abortion and sterilization. The Convention also lists sanctions and measures against violent persons along with difficult circumstances. We know that bullyes were generally punished by the least prescribed penalties, or even sometimes under the prescribed penalties. Most often, this led to repeated violence, an increase that was occasionally fatal and ended mainly with the death of the victim, and sometimes by the death of the violent one, when the victim crossed over his border of patience and in fear of his life or the safety of his children killed the bully. The Convention obliges us to take a number of measures concerning prevention of violence, emergency protection measures, restraining measures, protection of rights and the interests of victims, as well as the protection of their families and witnesses against intimidation and retribution. It also lists the right to legal aid, asylum, information, as well as international co-operation on litigation and criminal cases affecting several countries. Ratification of such a significant act is the necessity that leads us into a society of countries with developed awareness of gender equality and the protection of women from every type of violence. In this set of laws, the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Duke of Luxembourg, as well as the Social Security Agreement between Serbia and Canada, includes the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the area of international adoption. This convention would only take a few moments, because I think it is of paramount importance that we accept the recommendations and obligations imposed upon us by this convention. The biggest tragedy for every child is to grow up without a family and the purpose of this convention is to allow every child to grow up in a family circle. The Convention provides even more effective protection for children without parental ageing, increased security in the process of international adoption and special protection of the adopted child after adoption. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote to ratify these conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24483	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24484	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister and the other members of the Government, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, will, in the shortest possible, refer to these four legislative proposals, which confirm international agreements and conventions. The accession of our country to the International Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption will create a more secure legal framework in this branch of international and private law. The ratification of this Convention would contribute to the quality of international adoption and would be another measure to protect children with health disorders or special needs without parental ageing. The very fact that this convention has been ratified by 79 countries of the world, including the increasingly influential world powers - the European Union, Russia, the United States and China, tells us that it is dealing with another issue that humanity is generally not disputed and is trying to find a common agreement. We can conclude that our adoptors are not yet ready for this kind of adoption due to environmental response, which depends on one civilizational and cultural level of environment in which we live. Our adoptors mostly want a child small and healthy. International adoptions are only extremely applied, and with us the main reason for international adoption is that our citizens, in most cases, do not want to adopt children with health problems or special needs. Insistent adoption is extremely applied under a special regime and special procedure, giving permission to the ministry responsible for labour and social policy. Although our family law already deals with the issue of international adoption of children in one correct way, in the sense that the measure of international adoption is used only as an ultimate measure for the care of children, although these cases have only ten a year, on the other hand, the adoption of this Convention opens up opportunities for better co-operation between our and our foreign authorities. It is a particularly important area and supervisory control of adoption in another country. This Convention perfects the system, although much has already been incorporated into our legislation. It gives us the opportunity to work better with other agencies, make it easier for us to get to the adoptor who will, who may and may wish to adopt children with these health disorders. Children lose our citizenship by adopting, but all the international adoptors we have today respect the right of a child to the origin and cherish the identity of a child. From the moment of implementation of the family law, there have been 45 international adoptions, mostly in Sweden, the United States, as well as individual cases in Greece, Italy, France and Germany. Confirmation of the Convention would certainly contribute to preventing different abuses, illegal business agencies for intermediating human trafficking and others. The second convention today will be confirmed by the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence in Family and Women. This Convention aims to seek to protect women from all forms of violence, to promote prevention and criminal prosecution of domestic violence, to promote equality between women and men, to economic empowerment of women and to eliminate all kinds of discrimination, to provide protection to victims of violence in the family, and to provide assistance to victims of domestic violence and to create a framework for greater international co-operation in this area. All of this certainly belongs to one of the very delicate measures in our society and there is hardly a day to not see in the media any news of such sad events, unorthodox and with the most severe consequences. Despite the great efforts made to raise the general awareness of our citizens about this problem and despite the fact that countries and numerous NGOs are trying to create a better material condition for helping victims of domestic violence, as well as a more effective legal system and mechanisms for preventing and effectively sanctioning these negative phenomena, unfortunately, we must be aware that these cases will certainly be in the future. Therefore, although our country has already built in its national legislation a large majority of the rights and obligations declared by this Convention, I believe that the greatest importance of the adoption of this Convention lies in the possibility of international co-operation. By joining this Convention, our country acquires the right to engage in the work of the International Expert Group to combat violence against women "GREVIO" In this way we will be involved in the exchange of experiences and data from this area, but this automatically withdraws and significantly higher levels of responsibility in the application of concrete legal norms and other protection mechanisms, as they will be under the supervision of the international body in the future. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia established a female parliamentary network that supports this convention in order to primarily assist women in economic empowerment in achieving their life goals. As the 11th and 12th agenda, we are today considering international social security agreements with Canada and Luxembourg. It is certainly a good thing we have managed to fight in two other countries to regulate issues related to pension and disability insurance, i.e. to recognise the job experience and the smooth payout of these species, the belongings of our citizens abroad and vice versa. This is particularly important for Canada, because we have a large number of our citizens working there and living for many years, so their position will be significantly facilitated, as they will spend less time on state institutions to achieve their acquired rights. Dear MPs, as we have seen, the proposals for all four conventions and agreements are aimed at addressing social problems and improving the situation of our citizens. There cannot be any political and ideological dispute around them, such as for some other laws, so the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia will support these ratifications in the voting day, and I believe they will do so unanimously and other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24485	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24486	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, within this agenda, the Government has proposed to confirm four international agreements. As we have heard, two are bilateral international agreements with Canada and Luxembourg and concern social security. The Third is the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption and is confirmed by the Committee on the Rights of the Child. It is important not only because it strengthens legal certainty, especially in preventing trade, kidnapping, selling or child abuse, but also because it is more effective in achieving the right of our children to live in a family environment. In addition to domestic adoption and foster care, the third vision is international adoption, and it is primarily important because of children with disabilities who are disturbed by development, older children and children of Roma nationality, where future adoptors here in our country, unfortunately, do not show great interest. I would not only bring this about the issue of humanity, but rather, as a result of the great trauma of this society and great poverty. The Fourth Convention, and I intend to pay the most attention to it, is a convention to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. It's about the Council of Europe convention. I would like to remind you that this year has marked the 10th anniversary since Serbia became a member of the Council of Europe. I think this was a good opportunity, an important, important topic and a huge problem and that this little jubilee could be used to pay full attention and confirm this convention. What is common to all international contracts in general is to enrich the legal framework, strengthen legal certainty, promote international co-operation, etc. However, I would like these four conventions dealing with social security, the right of children, the right of women to actually understand, or to ask everyone here and here in Parliament, in society in general, to treat them as a reminder. As a reminder of how little this society cares for people, it pays attention to human rights. The state is responsible for human rights violations not only when she is the perpetrator but also when the perpetrators are other persons. If before 5 October the state was the one who actually violated human rights the most, it is now important that the state takes as much responsibility as possible and protects the human rights of each citizen individually. I don't think we're that successful on that trip and we're not going so fast. I mean, speaking of human rights, taking care of people, social issues, that in the past 25 years, the only time when social issues were overkilled and the national issues were between 5 October and 12 March 2003. I'd like to say something about the importance of this convention. It is important that in preventing violence, protecting victims, punishing the perpetrators, and asking our country for full commitment both in preventing, processing, punishing and even reparating victims. This full commitment and prevention that I mentioned here is how it's actually happening with us. In fact, I do have the impression that in the government and when the government sent this as a bill to confirm the convention, this convention was absolutely not dealt with. I'll dare say that maybe no one's even read it, because if he'd read it, he'd have seen that in Article 12. The Convention requires our state, so our state commits itself to, at all levels, starting from the highest to the lowest and regularly dealing with the issue of importance and the spread of awareness of manifestations, of all forms of violence and of preventing it. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous days, neither at that cabinet session when we were passed on this convention, absolutely no one, nor the resolute minister nor anyone from the government, and the operators are both the prime minister and the minister of justice and the minister of education and the minister of health, no one said a half sentence. Let me remind you, in the last few days, we've done a very lively job and there have been more contributions to electronic media and articles in printed media about the use of vehicle rotational lights. Is that raising your mind? Is that prevention? Wait, if you have not read the Convention, if you are not familiar with it, then you were obliged to use the National Strategy to prevent violence against women adopted by this country in 2011, this national strategy literally begins with a sentence – making a national strategy represents an expression of the government's determination to prevent violence. I don't really see and I'm sorry that the Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy in this country really doesn't deal with employees or unemployed or social policy, and the suppression of violence is one important segment of that social policy. One more thing, not only did she marginalise the issue, meaning the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, but the government also sent a very bad message by engaging in economic adviser Dominic Stros Khan, a man who was repeatedly accused of sexual violence, two months ago in the city of Lilu again brought charges against that man. Is this a message from the Government to the perpetrators of violence and what is this message and what is this message to women who suffer violence every day in this country? I think that's inadmissible. The economy, yes, but not at the cost of promoting violence and violence. We do not have to go to other countries now and look for positive examples of how the country has sent positive messages in the prevention of violence by taking appropriate action towards its officials. I will remind you ladies and gentlemen, in 2002, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic proposed and there was a debate on where a Deputy Prime Minister, Vuk Obradovic, was appointed, for the sole reason he sexually harassed his colleagues. That's a real message. It's a real message to the bullyes and to the women and children who suffer violence in this country. As for protection, since the Convention is very serious and detailed in terms of protection and protection, I'd say she's reduced to help herself here. More than 90% of women themselves file proceedings or charges of domestic violence or a request for protective measures or criminal charges. In this protection, the Convention particularly insists on the coordinated and effective work of all state authorities of the service, and are particularly important, of course, NGOs that have made the most important contribution to this issue over the past 20 years. I say over 90% of women actually start these proceedings themselves, and only a few percent of the four or five social work and even less police or prosecution on official duty. That should change. He should be aware that the victims are often not in an objective position to initiate the procedure on their own. As far as punishment is concerned, there is a demand for harmonisation of criminal policy and to reduce the range between the highest and lowest penalties. When I said this effective and coordinated service work, the day before yesterday we had an example, once the perpetrator of violence was told by the court a protective measure against the victim's access to his wife, and no one was competent to control and monitor that measure, so that victim, in fact, that woman was the victim because that husband stabbed her with a screwdriver. I think that shows how real these problems are. I also want to say that I am appealing here to the Women's Parliamentary Network and to all my fellow Members and colleagues, that our country signed this convention last year in accordance with Article 3. The Convention and the Reserve shall apply to two members, one shall be Article 30(2). In fact, our country refused, put in a reserve, refused to apply the provision to compensate women who had severe physical injuries or seriously impaired health, and neither the perpetrator nor the insurance company compensated for the damage, our country refused to compensate for that type of damage to the victims. I don't think that's a good thing and it's not enough reason for the state to do it because of financial difficulties, because if there's money in this country to, say, I don't know, forgive a company like Simpo, if we can cover losses and "Srbigas" and "The Railways" 200, 300 million, if yesterday the Assembly can give up 300 million dinars in one day, to reduce, to cut their budget by 300 million dinars, if we can give up a full amount of ore rent, and these reserves are 7 billion, and we charge a mine rent of only 3%, and we could cut up to 30%, or at least 22 in Russia. If this country could pay off, for one bully, I mean Miladin Kovacevic, the damage to an American citizen who barely survived violence by Miladin Kovacevic, if she could single out a million dollars for it, then I think that, in particular, I would say in the situation of compensation where the perpetrator can't pay and where the insurance company can't, only in case the state can't collect the responsibility to protect and reparate the victims. So I beg the Members of Parliament to support me, and I ask the Government, the Minister of Resort, to withdraw this reserve, because I don't think it's good. The second reserve refers to Article 44. It's about jurisdiction. Our country is exempt from jurisdiction in cases of persons who have only residence here, not residence. This is justified by the reason that it is necessary to establish harmonisation of criminal law. Well, that could be corrected by that harmonisation, but on the other hand there are examples of when we accepted the same text, ratified conventions, and then I don't see, although they weren't in line with criminal legislation, so I don't see why that wouldn't be the case here. I would pay attention, especially to family violence, which is actually the cancer of the wounds of this society, which is the generator of all forms of violence, because in families usually have transgenerational heritage, because half of the children are present at violence, and each third is the victim of violence, so, after that, the children are usually passed on this model of behavior to both the street and the schools, to stadiums and elsewhere. Since LDP is used to it, it's his way of working to try to confront us with reality in public life, I'll say it's on behalf of the LDP, that the family is actually the most violent social group in this country. That's what the data confirms, and that's what the research confirms. In fact, only for the first eight months of domestic violence were 42 people killed, 38 of which were women. In eight months, 38 women were killed. Last year, 28 for a year. Last year, 29. Of those 29, 23 were victims of their partners, four were killed by their sons, and two were victims of the Tabian kinship. That domestic violence, it's about deaths. So these 38 women who have been killed these eight months are someone's daughters, they're somebody's sisters, they're somebody's mothers, 38 women killed in the first eight months of this country. It's about death outcomes. On the other hand, there are studies that talk about injuries and police interventions. Namely, the Association of Judges for Violations conducted a survey from 2004 to July 2006 and according to this comprehensive survey at national level, 50,127 police interventions in the area of domestic violence were recorded. Consider the information that police assistance during the latest incident requires only 23% of women, 18% address the social work centre, and 30% to health institutions, most of which for fractures and extremities, for fractures and extremities. Since it's a cyclical problem, that violence is repeated. Those women tomorrow, some of them may be killed. Where's our awareness of that? At the same time, the 50,127 police interventions for two years by the Republic Statistics Institute did approximately the same time research and concluded that only 4,500 reports were filed for the 50,127 cases. Of which 2,070 were convicted. You know, you can't just talk in this society about the matter and the problem of the white plague. And it's not good that some organisations, which are called Family Protection Associations, remember that they appear once a year when it comes to promoting the rights of diversity of the LGBT population, as if that population is violent against these powerful women, and it's as if it's the root of the problem of violence in this country. In the end, I would say that the most important thing is to create society first, that it is most important to create a society that publicly condemns violence. That this path to combat and eliminate violence is not easy and simple. That the LDP will vote in favour of all four conventions and that I once again refer the proposal and ask the Government to withdraw the reserve to Article 30. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to support this LDP proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24487	Thank you. Replica, Marija Obradovic. Here you go. (The People's MP Natasa Micic, from the place: which is the basis of the replica. As an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24488	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the LDP MPs for such an interesting discussion when the bill proposals are at issue at this united point, and I am very pleased that she has used her political authority to address a particular target group that they too hear about how important this topic is, although the government is a promoter, not one of the opposition parties, but this is an exceptional catastrophic abuse of the position of MPs, its authorized time to get petty daily-political points. The mention of one of the government's advisers when we talk about such an important topic, which means a big step in changing people's minds in Serbia, when both the government and all the MPs and all the parties agreed that we will all vote as one, at this point, in this context mentioning one of the government's advisers, in this context it is very ugly on your part and moving the weights that have gone in one excellent direction, at this point when we have a lot of problems in Serbia and there are many injustices. Some of the things you mentioned and the events stand, but is this a moment and can we now correct all injustices? This is the moment when Serbia can see that parliament MPs are all as one that we must publicly condemn violence. And you've moved it in one completely different direction. It's not gonna work out for you, it's crazy attempts that only discredit your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24489	Time. On what grounds, Judith? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24490	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 107 and Article 27. The dignity of this parliament has been injured and you did not interrupt the previous pay phone when she uttered certain offensive words at the expense of the previous pay phone, Mrs. Micicic. Mr. Chairman, you are known to monitor the course of the session closely and to be quite strict in speaking the reminders. The previous speaker said that Mrs Micic abused her position as parliamentarian, that she made an ugly statement. Isn't that an insult, Mr. Chairman? Much greater insults because we can find in them a certain dose of demeaning Mrs. Micic as MPs. So that's much worse than when we draw attention to the fact that the chairman is obliged to tell the truth, that only with the truth of the barata when he speaks to the MPs and when he comments on any views expressed in this House. Therefore, Mr President, you did indeed injure the dignity of this Parliament when you allowed one MP to address the other MPs in such a way, although it is the MPs from the ruling parties and this second one is the MP who has been injured by the opposition party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24491	Mrs. Judith, I do not dispute your right to have such an opinion. However, I do not have such an opinion, and I did not get the impression that dignity was injured. You have the right to state whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured. (Yes) So, in Vote Day, the Assembly will declare whether there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Replica, Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I really don't understand what basis you gave your SNS colleague the right to reply, since the SNS parliamentary group is absolutely not mentioned, nor can she play a role here as protector of the government, advisor, a wooden lawyer. I absolutely don't see what the basis of one parliamentary group is because the government can get the right to replication. Secondly, I want to answer, since I've already been called. I said – the economy is yes, but not at the cost of promoting abusers, and Dominic Stross Khan has been repeatedly accused of sexual violence, a procedure has been conducted and is currently being conducted in the city of Lilu. This very convention, and this particular topic should encourage us not to keep quiet about these things but to say that this is a bad message for all the bullies in this country, that it is a sad message for all the women who suffer violence in this country and that it is not good when the first Deputy Prime Minister at the press conference thanked the press for not asking awkward questions because, if we go around awkward questions and put them under the carpet, these questions, and already it has happened to us many times, will come right back to our faces and with much more serious consequences. I don't think my colleague is right and I have the right to comment. Some NGOs have come forward on this issue, first of all "The Women in Black", and I think it is one proof that some consciousness exists in this country and some need for reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24493	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Biljana Pantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24494	Chairman, I believe that the previous speaker hurt a member of the 107th Rules of Procedure, when she injured my colleague and spoke offensively about her, noting that she was the same wooden lawyer of the Government, and a colleague was authorized in front of the SNS to speak on this subject, and today is the topic of the convention to be ratified by this Parliament, not Dominic Stros Khan. Mrs. Natasa Micic cannot say that what is not on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24495	The MP cannot harm the Rules of Procedure, only the chairman. So I ask you in that sense that when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have in mind that only the Chairman can harm the Rules of Procedure. In that sense, I cannot accept that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But if you think we should make a statement, we'll plead. (No) The word is Jelena Travar Miljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24496	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I will, within these four points that are joined, allow myself to speak only today about the SE Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence Against Women. Why did I give the priority to this subject? Because we've been dealing with this subject for a long time in society and it has been something done since 2000, 2002, and so on with amendments to Criminal Family Law in 2005, but I certainly don't think it's enough. Very often we, as a society, further potentiate on these topics when the specific ones related to violence are given, which is "16 days of activists against violence against women". Also, a few days ago, October 15th as an international day of rural women to whom I claim special attention should be paid and which this topic certainly does not bypass, and very often on March 8th. But these are the topics that we need to deal with every day and this is the topic that we have to give a systemic answer to. What remains devastating to me is that we need a convention in order to achieve what is possible and without special means. Multi-sectoral coordination is something that can be implemented very simple. There are numerous mechanisms for achieving gender equality of equal opportunities already formed, from various advice on gender equality at local level, through the ombudsman at the province level, at the republican level, the trustees for gender equality, civil society organisations that most often open certain topics and work to resolve them. What we need to respond as a system is to create a body where civil society organisations, the prosecution, the police, social work centres, health and education will co-operate. And that's something this convention obliges us to do. This Convention is a comprehensive document and a legally binding instrument for Serbia. It has clear guidelines and standards and strategic frameworks and I hope for an effective implementation, as the Convention itself, as well as a parliamentary role, call for monitoring by parliaments as this Convention is implemented. Dear Minister, believe me, I will, as well as my parliamentary group, the U.S.S. and how to monitor how this strategy is implemented. Because the policy of combating domestic violence is something that is the basic policy of the U.S.S. and something we stand for. And last year, as a political party, we very clearly appealed to this sectoral co-operation and data exchange. I also now appeal to you because I have noticed that on certain issues that you have been interested in and solved, so I expect the same kind of activity from you when it comes to violence against women and domestic violence. I expect you to stand up with the Minister of Justice as soon as possible to improve the Criminal Code, to sharpen the fines. I also expect from you, as Minister, that together with the finance minister, you may find a solution to the establishment of a fund to help victims of violence, and that already exists in some European countries and works and there is a way of filling it. I don't see why thugs can't be one of the so-called chargers of this particular fund. It is not always necessary to make excuses, but I think it is necessary to seek solutions. This is both your mission and our task, and in addition, our task is to monitor the work of the government and the ministries to implement this convention. So far, for example, seven states have ratified this convention, five have submitted official instruments on ratification of the Council of Europe. In addition to harmonising the legislative framework, I believe that we will change institutional policies, that they will be clear, that we will introduce new and redefine some existing legal provisions. Maybe we should also form a crisis center for rape victims. I also don't see any reason why we don't have a national SOS phone, which works 24 hours a day, every day of the week. In many municipalities, NGOs have initiated this in co-operation with the Councils for Gender Equality. There's a lot of municipalities that fund it. I don't see why we wouldn't be able to network it, exploit it and do it at national level. It's not something that requires a lot of resources. I'd also like to talk to you about the victim's protection services in the institutions. What will we do when those already humiliated come and complain to institutions, and these, or employees of institutions, further discriminate against them? Do we have mechanisms and answers to that? How long has the ministry been monitoring the work of the lower-level institutions? We need improvements in administrative records at social work centres. What I've already said, and what doesn't require additional funding, is networking at local level. We must not allow it to be wrapped up by the goodwill of local leaders, or by the goodwill of activists, or by civil society organisations, or by one institution, to move perhaps once a year and exchange data from police, social work centres, ministries, or health institutions at the primary health level. What we need to provide is a system solution through this convention. It enables us to coordinate education programmes and this is a task for the Ministry of Education, i.e. how to implement everything that is acceptable through education and to create tolerance for equal chances for all. Our obligation is to say, they and those institutions sit four times a year, exchange data and lead them in the same pattern. What creates the same thing, at least in my case, is the disproportionateness between interventions and the number of reported cases of domestic violence. No one can convince me that when someone reports it, they don't know what they're reporting. I found out that 27.5% of the total cases reported were criminal proceedings, that 15% of the perpetrators were charged with criminal charges, and that 42 were initiated by a procedure that could in principle lead to punishment. I think this is clear information that we need to work on the system solutions. What's going on in Liga - why are problems solved on the street and not in institutions? I ask what our answer is as systems to such events? Why do we always have to wait for something to come out on the street to talk to me about it? What are we doing to warn such unkind events? I have to point out the responsibility of the institutions if they don't do something. My previous colleagues and speakers were talking about the fact that some of the help had arrived very late. If it's 38 women this year, it's a lot. There was a campaign of an NGO that spoke – none more, none less. That's what we need to do. It's not enough to adopt the Convention. I've been watching, say, when I'm talking about the police, she has protocol in dealing with situations like this. I think it's a good step, but I also think that the role of this is, hopefully, to quickly form this multi-sector body, or a coordinating body, to draw up a document that will clearly state which institution, how it acts when there is violence against women, or domestic violence. I believe we'll have a clear picture of that, if someone turns to the social work center, who they informs, what they do, and how they help the victim. We, unfortunately, do not have a system solution or the financing of safe houses. This often depends on the goodwill of some donors and local self - administrations. It's something that needs to be resolved systemically. We need to figure out how to help these women and family after leaving the safe house. Very often, what concerns me personally is that we take the woman out of the house and victimize her twice. Isn't it enough that she suffered violence? Instead of staying in her home, we take her and the kids from there. I don't want to talk about data as many times as children are directly victims of domestic violence. I'm someone who really believes that family should be and represent the safest place to live. There is the role of both the ministries and the government, and we are also to control how the government works, to find certain answers and system solutions. I think there's only one protocol that says -- if the victim answers the social work center, and I found information that the most frequent victims are answering the police phone, even in some police institutions, in 90% of the cases, which they refer to, what happens, at which rate health care and care is provided, and what we do after that with children and women, because we can't leave them. There's been some good attempts. I must say, the National Employment Service, for example, gave more points to victims of domestic violence, i.e. women, when the business plans for self-employment were hit. That's one good measure. I think that such measures should, in some ways, be copied, brought down to lower levels, and especially since you and I both know there are local employment advices and there are a series of possibilities that we victims can help. So I think every word in my speech would be too high. The fight against violence against women is one of the priorities of the Women's Parliamentary Network, one of the goals that is undeniable and that we've all gathered around. The fight against violence is obviously something that this parliament votes practically unanimously and clearly without compromise. The fight against violence is my role, as MPs, to ask every six months – what has been done about implementation and how far we have arrived. I thank you for your attention, and I believe the reaction will be rapid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24497	The word has the People's MP Tamara Tripic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24498	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first and foremost refer to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, where the state should finally establish zero tolerance, or new forms of violence. This Convention is the most comprehensive international treaty in this area. Taking into account the fact that in Serbia, police receive more than 20,000 applications for domestic violence annually, it is high time to sound the alarm alarm in this society. The prevention of violence, the protection of victims of violence and the prosecution of perpetrators are the foundations of this Convention. She recognizes violence against women as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination. For the first time, the states are now calling for responsibility unless they provide an adequate response to the violence they have committed. The Convention calls for the active participation of all relevant state institutions to work coordinatedly to protect against violence against women and domestic violence. I must point out here that the Women's Parliamentary Network as one of its main objectives highlights a constant fight against all forms of domestic violence. In this regard, all Members of the Women's Parliamentary Network will support and vote for the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. We sincerely hope that it will change the way we think, the attitudes and the system of values of the entire society. Why does this convention need Serbia? In May this year, all of Italy united over the case of a 16-year-old Fabian who was brutally killed by her partner. The House of Parliament has unanimously decided on the ratification of this Convention. One Fabian united all of Italy. In Serbia, 32 women were killed by their partners last year. This year there have been new scary 37 reasons for the state to seriously fight this growing problem. To be clear, 37 women have been killed by their partners this year. Almost every day media reports on the brutality of family accounts as if human life, that killing a woman becomes the best solution to family problems and I can't help but wonder - did the state somehow contribute to winning this infamous record by inaction, late reaction, non-cooperation by state authorities this year? Perhaps some Ljubica, Svetlana, Maya today would be alive if the state had done a little bit more and a little faster. The best example that we could have done more is the case of the brutal murder of a woman in one village near Kovacica in the other half of last year. That's when a bully with a concrete block smashed the skull of an unhappy woman and killed her in place. This case was addressed by the Autonomous Women's Centre, but also by the Citizens' Protector, and the Citizens' Protector in the process of controlling the legality and regularity of the work of the Police Administration, the Centre for Social Labour and General Hospital established the following. First, police officers have not notified the competent social work centre after multiple reports of violence by their partners. They did not even form a security plan based on the previously established degree of threat to the victim of violence and did not inform the competent prosecutor of the serious immediate danger to the life of the victim of violence. On the other hand, hospital employees, even after learning about partner violence, have also not notified the competent social labour centre. Hospital employees did not even document injuries caused by violence, did not assess the victim's safety and did not develop a security plan in line with the special protocol of the Republic of Serbia's Ministry of Health for Protection and Treatment of Women exposed to violence. And finally, neither the police chief nor that hospital director took steps to determine the responsibilities of police officers, or health workers associated with this case. Could we have saved that unfortunate woman? I, unfortunately, don't know the answer to that question, but it is a fact that this woman is left to the mercy and mercy in this case of a convicted bully. When we look at the headlines in the media, the impression is that the life of a woman for our country is the cheapest commodity. As a rule, it is the same scenario: it has a history of violent behavior, it has reported violence or there are witnesses to this violence, the violence has lasted and ended in murder. Only ways are different and unfortunately more diverse. I'll read you just some of the headlines in the media in the last few months: "A hand bomb blew her child's eye off," "A jealous set her lover on fire," "Killed her wife in front of kindergarten", "The woman smashed her head with a cup", "The knife killed her ex-wife", "In Kroševec killed the woman with a metal rod" and not to count on her. Somewhere two weeks ago, there was supposed to be a Pride Parade in Belgrade. Some ultra right-wing organizations, and for me, people who join the will to commit violence, immediately rushed to organize a walk in the protection of family values. Well, how come family values deserve protection when it comes to sexual orientation, but there's no need for activists when a woman is loaded with glue and burned in front of her children's eyes? Why is there no statement from these family value carriers when a bully activates a hand grenade and kills his wife? How come we don't have a walk or a social engagement when some guy stabs his wife for jealousy? Where is this honest relationship with family values? The family is definitely at risk, threatened by abusers, repeated and physical and psychological violence against victims. Why have some marginal groups recently encouraged themselves to write lists of inadequate NGOs? At the same time, we as a state achieve the infamous record of women's murders, as if the state created an ambience in which violence escalates at every step, every day and in almost all segments of social life. I must point out that it's not just the murders of women in adventurous relations that are the problem of family violence. In addition, there is a whole spectrum of behaviors that are criminally, i.e. criminally sanctioned, or should be sanctioned. Violence in the family is both psychological violence and physical violence and sexual harassment and rape in marriage and persecution. The problem is that most cases of domestic violence never apply and stays in the black zone, away from the eyes of the public, but away from protection mechanisms. We should ask ourselves why that is. I can tell you right now that the problem is that citizens have no confidence in state authorities, in the state system, in an adequate and timely state reaction. It is today a weakness of our society and one failure we must face. To conclude, these women are not statistics, they're not empty numbers on paper. They have a name and a last name, they're somebody's mother, they're somebody's daughter. They can't become everyday, something we've come to terms with and what we're used to. The DS parliamentary group believes that Serbia particularly needs this convention, since we have not successfully contained this terrible problem. We hope that this way we will get a firm stance from the state, action, synergy and coordination in the work of the state authorities. As a state, we must show both willingness and determination to stand in the way of this growing phenomenon. Let me remind you, violence is not a private matter. It can even be said that it is the consequence of the fact that institutions in charge of solving it have given up their functions. Did they give up? Well, sometimes it seems that way. It is the elemental right of every citizen and citizen to receive protection from the state when they or their fundamental human rights are threatened, God forbid. This right guarantees us both the Constitution and the law. Thirty-seven women have lost their right to live by denying that right. This Convention establishes a serious responsibility for the state to take the final responsibility and begins to perform this one effectively, and for me, one of its basic functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24499	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24500	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored Madam Chairman, Honored MPs, we today have a set of international agreements and conventions that we through legislation, the laws we are adopting today, which we are considering to introduce into our practice and our everyday life. These laws will make our domestic legislation richer, improve and bring it into line with modern European legislation and thus achieve another success in the plan to regulate our overall legal system. These laws deserve our full attention and the assembly, and this also shows the interest of all MPs to give their opinion on the proposed laws today, as well as the number of MPs who have come to speak on this subject, and they are over 40. I conclude that these issues in the Assembly have caused proper attention, but before us it is not only our task to adopt laws, to consider them, etc., but it is a huge task and much greater than this that it becomes part of daily legislative and executive practice, which means that, in addition to our attention in the debate, law enforcement must be ensured in life. Efficiency and multidisciplinary is something that has been said here, which is very important in these issues and which must exist as a developed practice in the future that different ministries on some complex social issues and social phenomena jointly consider them and bring common measures to each other in their field. When it comes to this, I would point out the importance of the Ministry of Justice, besides the Ministry of Social Policy, then, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, etc. Today, we are talking about a bill confirming the Council of Europe Convention to prevent the fight against violence against women, which I find very important, which has already been repeated several times in the previous discussion by the Convention on the Protection of Children on Co-operation and in the area of international adoption, which is one set or two topics that are very close to one another. The constitutional basis for the adoption of these laws is contained in Article 97(1) of our Constitution, as well as in Article 99(1) point 4. The Constitution. They also fit a series of similar laws that apply to, for example, the rights and protection of a mother and child's wife, the protection of single parents, families, children with special needs and those relating to protection against forced labour, exploitation, abuse, etc. A number of them also stemmed from signed and adopted international agreements and conventions. According to the number of laws of legislation in Serbia, we can conclude that it has been developed, that it is well arranged and that it follows European laws. There is a positive assessment in the United Nations Committee's report, which is almost discussing these issues in Geneva, which discusses Serbia's progress in this area. Positive reports from the Office for Human and Minority Rights, as well as trustees for the Protection of Equality. But life warns us cruelly. Violence against women and children is present. He's got an example every day. Many of them are quoted today. I will not speak precisely about legal solutions and examples of life on this occasion because it has already been said and there will also be a lot of words in the discussion in particular. That's what my fellow MPs will talk about. I have defined myself to once again point out that these phenomena and problems are rooted in much deeper problems, in traditional relations, in patriarchal stereotypes and infuriated understanding of the role of women and men, in today's notion of the role and importance of family, in its place in society, as well as in the obligation of parents to raise a healthy and safe child. Ever since what's very present today, the social crisis, unemployment, lack of funds for a normal life, then shoots where the teens are. First woman loses her job, easily becomes a technological surplus, harder to hire, less profit, motherhood becomes an obstacle, not an advantage. These are all the phenomena we meet today that are increasingly affecting the poor position of women in society. In such conditions, women often lose their own safety, so very often then and in the family they remain with a lack of support. In the absence of money, in times of crisis, all problems become bigger and violence more present. As the People's proverb says, the poor woman enters the door, and love comes out the window. The domestic violence most often manifests itself through the violence of those closest to us, with whom we share our lives, but shows ourselves to those who are weaker. The appearances of violence are manifested through beatings, tortures, various kinds, sexual and psychological persecution, forced marriage, mutilation, various forms of violence, and this is written daily. Someone says why the public is alarmed, why they're upset, but what's much scarier, behind it is not looking for action, there are no new measures and their application that would suppress violence and that would allow exactly protection and safe life in that place that we love most, which is our house and our family. We are in the 21st century where there is the expansion of knowledge, science, information, democracy that we call upon, and the phenomena that we are surrounded and with which we live are phenomena, so to speak, from the 19th century. The data and figures were quoted here, for example, that 29 women were killed in the last year, over 1,500 reports. It's been said that in this year, it's number 38, not 42. This points to an increased number, to the danger that continues to exist, to the lack and taking of measures in an adequate way, but also to the harmonisation of all of these social conditions in which we live. We are in a time with so many opportunities to spread knowledge and learning, and we are talking about problems and big differences in the position of women and men. Of course, it's not just a problem of Serbian society. The problem is both European and global society and the world's population, as if by developing democracy or calling on democracy we in the developed world and countries have a problem with the threat of women, children and families, but this must be answered in an appropriate manner and be held responsible for it. It is important to know that the collapse of the role of family, the rule of older understanding, the acceptance of different social roles, the retention of stereotypes, the endangerment of women's rights, disrespect, demeaning and violence require our reaction through emancipation movements, women's associations, NGOs, but even more so through the work of all responsible services and state bodies. The question of the role of law and respect for women, I'd say it's not just a woman's question. The question is primarily a male question, because it shows male emancipation and modernity. In the end, I will also appeal that our greatest educator, the first Serbian minister of education, comes from Europe to Serbia, bringing progressive European knowledge into the current state of Serbia, wrote here already – woe to that country whose mothers and women live in ignorance and locked up in the house, that state and such society have no future. So Dosei left messages that we haven't properly applied in two centuries and that we're not aware of. Statistics indicate the poorly exploited economic potential of women in this society. For example, in April 2011, only 38.8% of women were employed in Serbia and 52% of men were employed in Serbia. This results in an inadequate relationship with a woman, or there is also a consequence of what we are talking about today. Only 13% of women employed do their own job, while 28% of men do it. According to UN data, women carry out two-thirds of the world's jobs in the world, earn one-tenth of the world's income, and own less than one percent of the world's assets. If we're going to talk about the picture itself in Serbia, then we'll be able to say that women make up more than half the population, that the average age is 41.5 years, that since 2007, more women get a degree in college, but 52% is unemployed. The profit difference is huge, 3.7% in favour of men. In the house they work five times more than men, and in the country nine times more. If we're just going to do it every day, women are more careful drivers, less killed on the roads. Women find it harder to find a job, but it's easier to lose. Less is a woman in managerial and other management affairs. Only two women are ministers. Every fourth woman in Serbia suffers some form of violence. This is the kind of Serbia that needs to be changed. All MPs in our Assembly, I am confident, will vote in favour of the adoption of these laws and the full application of the Istanbul Convention, which aims to protect victims and punish perpetrators. The Women's Parliamentary Network in the Assembly has the obligation and task to take special care of these issues. All parties, as I have seen from the debate so far, will support this orientation and these laws, and we can certainly conclude that Serbia is rich in resources, but rich in problems. In this regard, I can say that in the last year, the government has been aiming to deal seriously with many existing social problems, with various phenomena that are present, but this is also one that must be in the future in its focus and that is why I am convinced that, acting in such a way, it will provide an adequate reaction through legislation alone. That's why we're passing these laws. To this end, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this, as well as other laws, from today's debate, but moreover, we will advocate a change in social awareness and responsibility, for reducing and eliminating all forms of inequality and endangering the position and life of women, thus affecting the same and reducing violence. I will also briefly refer to the proposal for a law establishing a Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the field of international adoption. It's a relatively recent phenomenon that developed after World War II. Especially since 1970, legal regulations have been developed. The legal system is being developed in many countries. A multilateral approach has been highly represented, as child protection in international adoption takes place through co-operation between several countries. For example, in 1993, a convention was adopted based on a basic 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted. When it comes to the protection of children in international adoption, it is very important that they are legally and legislatively regulated and what the obligations of the country of origin and the obligations of the state of reception are. Accordingly, these bill proposals go in an adequate way in terms of child safety and safety, and that is certainly commendable. An important condition, which the ministry wants to implement and monitor in any case, is to raise a child in a family environment in which safety, predictability, transparency of the process and all the entities and all the countries involved. The Convention shall establish co-operation between States and bodies not only in the act of adoption, but in all flows, i.e. after adoption, the post-adaptive period and the life of the child in the new family. In Serbia, the rights of the child are defined by the Constitution in Articles 64 and 65. For example, it is the right to a personal name, to enter the MKR, the right to know the origin of the child, the right to preserve the identity and to protect against psychological, physical, economic and any other exploitation. By applying this Convention in accordance with all the positive forms of protection of family, mother, single parent, child protection, child with special needs, the position of children in general is protected. Children without parental ageing, however, are asking for special care from us. In our everyday practice, we have such children in a family, foster family, adoption and housing of social protection institutions. It is important to welcome the international adoption of children, especially as we see from practice, and also from the conventions concerning this, that children with special needs are most often given here and that additional and greater control of their future life and their position is ensured in this respect and that the overall attention that is directed towards these matters is shown. In that sense, I would certainly like to commend the Ministry of Social Affairs' proposal which, in fact, allowed these conventions to be adopted and thus become part of our legislation. Finally, in this set of proposals there are laws confirming an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on social security, on the one hand, Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. When it comes to first, we see that it refers to part of social and pension insurance. I wouldn't talk about it, it's developed systems in Canada, as one developed, legally organized state. But what's good is that it regulates and provides legal protection for all our people who work there, because it's certainly more in favour of our citizens than the citizens of Canada, who still don't come to work here, except when it comes to certain projects, tasks, when they're in diplomatic service, or in some other way. On the other hand, the law determining co-operation with the Republic of Luxembourg gives us a range of social protection related to several segments, which also provides social security, and health care, and protection at work, protection of the family, etc. It's important because it's a European country. We are harmonising our law with these European laws, ensuring the mutual exchange. Our citizens are certainly both in Luxembourg and in other European countries with such legislation more often go to work, and, again, the application of this, as well as other similar laws, is in line with the interests of our citizens above all. What brought me particular attention, when it comes to the Canadian law, is to see that Canada has a pension plan. I, as I interpret it, show that there is an accurate record of employees, the length of their employment, the time and dynamics of their retirement, etc., and on this basis they can plan to allocate, budgets, not only state, but everyone else, and private incentives and create those additional insurance branches. I am convinced that these things and the amendment of the Law on the Pension System will be considered and we will ensure that both this set of laws and problems ahead of us today and should be brought in line with EU laws, properly treated, that its duration is ensured, that its protection is provided, but that it can take advantage of all the resources that the state of Serbia has, all the private motivational resources that we have not used to date. In such a way as to ensure that the safety factors of citizens' lives in every respect, social, economic, etc., and especially when it comes to protecting against violence in this country are present and applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24501	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24502	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, respected Mrs. Jankovic, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is before us a very important document, i.e. law, the so-called Istanbul Convention aimed at preventing violence, protecting victims and punishing perpetrators. I am pleased to say with pride that Serbia has committed itself in April that this document will be ratified as soon as possible, but that my fellow Members of Parliament within the Women's Parliamentary Network have put some pressure on their meetings daily asking the President of Parliament to have this law discussed and adopted as soon as possible, realizing the importance of this comprehensive document. Getting out of the circle of violence is not only one of the main objectives of the Women's Parliamentary Network, but also the responsibility and obligation of the entire society. This reminds us of the victims of domestic violence and of the victims of gender - motivated violence. For what? Because every other woman has experienced some form of psychic violence. Because each third woman has experienced some form of physical violence, and every fourth woman is exposed to threats of violence. Unfortunately, in 92% of cases, the perpetrators of the crime in families are men, the most widespread form is marital violence, the most common victims of violence are wives or ex-wives. I believe and would agree with my previous colleagues that this is an opportunity when Serbian citizens can see the unity of the entire parliament. I am not in favour of this topic being politicised and I must objectively and very clearly say that domestic violence and gender-motivated violence is a problem not only in Serbia but in the whole world. All over the world, each third woman is a victim of some form of violence, as is unfortunately the case in Serbia. To point out one fact, which my colleagues did not point out and if they had already said a lot, that 37 people this year were killed, but that 25 underage children this year were left without their mothers, or grandmothers, because their mothers or grandmothers were unfortunately killed. This is already a really alarming figure, i.e. a line below which the whole society has to stop for, and we all have to do this parliament together with our supervisory role, and the resolution ministry to apply this convention. It is very important to say that fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as many have said, will oversee the application of this Convention. We will often ask you questions and ask for very clear information on how it is applied. We cannot allow this number of domestic violence and victims of women to leave this important document that we adopt to remain a dead letter on paper, in any case. This Convention regulates many areas in its provisions, but it is very important to note, that despite the fact that the ministry has a certain protocol this year for inter-resorship co-operation, it is a big problem that we have a lack of co-operation between state authorities and other institutions because I believe there is better inter-resorial co-operation between the centres for social work, police and other institutions, so that many people who have been victims of violence, who are unfortunately not among the living, are alive today. Of the 37 women who are no longer among us this year, 13 of them reported a case of violence to the police. Unfortunately, the police haven't responded. So we've had it, and you probably know it very well, that they're registered in both the centers and the police, that they're victims of domestic violence. It often happens that when a victim calls the police to have the bully arrested immediately, the problem is that he is released immediately. The problem is, you're suing a person, she's been released, and you're suing her. But now with this convention, we have very clear indications. It means that the state will stand between the person who is the victim of violence, by helping her with legal aid, and by giving up the lawsuit, the state will continue to carry out the whole procedure. These are very important provisions of this law. So, due to the lack of co-operation among state resolutions, I think it is very important to establish good coordination, as well as to adopt and apply protocols on handling and co-operation with all institutions and organisations, when I say, I mean both ministries and social work centres, local self-government, courts, police and NGOs. If this year we were able to introduce pedophile control by adopting Maria's law, and if we became another country in Europe after the UK, which, just on a proposal from the Women's Parliamentary Network, managed to put an end to the ageing of sexual delinquency, then I think we can strengthen this inter-resorship co-operation between the relevant institutions, in order to prevent violence by applying this convention. I've already said that a bully who threatens and physically abuses has to get a prison sentence automatically, and that's why, in my deep conviction, I need an addition to Criminal and Family Law. I expect that after the adoption of this convention and the amendment to the Criminal and Family Law will take place, I will also tell you why. For the crime of domestic violence, a sentence of one to eight years is foreseen, my view is that the law must be more precise. Why? Because no court in Serbia issued a warrant last year to move any bully out of the house, no warrant was issued to move the victim into the apartment. According to data I have for the past year, only 49 thugs have been banned from approaching a family member at a certain distance, 434 people have been banned from further harassing a family member, and eight people have been banned from accessing the area around the place of residence and the place of work of a family member. Therefore, our Criminal Law must be more precise than one, and under two, courts must make measures, or decisions that will be more rigorous. It's a very important prevention in this area. Therefore, we cannot achieve everything by changing and supplementing legal solutions, but it is also very important to prevent them. I have repeatedly asked the Minister of Education to change curricula and programmes and to introduce in relevant textbooks topics related to domestic violence and sexual education. My opinion as a educator is that by preventing ourselves from the earliest age and affecting our young boys that every form of violence destroys the family as the basic cell of society. I'm against women's inferior role textbooks. Why doesn't that change? Why do you see in the first grade textbooks of elementary school on each third or fourth page a woman as a nurse or a woman as a mother or grandmother who cooks lunch? It's something that finally needs to be changed by ratification of this convention. What I think is very important, I think an adequate health strategy is necessary for the victims for two reasons. It is not enough to treat violent people for a certain period of time in psychiatric institutions and psychiatric hospitals in that treatment for several weeks to do their part of the job, but after leaving the hospital, there is no control of whether they are taking treatment and they are returning to the violence they have resorted to. As much as programmes for victims of violence are needed, it is also necessary to develop a rehabilitation programme for bullies. This Convention contributes to changing ways of thinking, attitudes and the system of values of the entire society. I just wanted to say a few more sentences about the bill to confirm the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the area of international adoption. So far, the law has been passed by 70 countries of the world including the United States, Russia and China, so that Serbia would also engage in a club of countries that co-operate in international adoption by preventing abuses and failures with poor child outcomes. Why is it important to confirm this Convention as well? Because unfortunately, like, I'm free to say, traditional society is not ready to adopt disabled children. If there is an interest of foreign families in adopting these children, they should be allowed to adopt them because it is better for children to live in a family environment than in institutions. The second important moment in favour of ratification of this Convention is the strengthening of general legal and practical security in the process of international adoption by establishing a system of co-operation between competent authorities in countries of origin and countries of reception. This Convention defines in a very concrete way the co-operation of all authorities in the country from which the child is adopted and in the country where the child is adopted. Signatory states undertake to take all possible measures to prevent kidnapping, sale, child trafficking for adoption, which is otherwise not an isolated case. In my opinion, these are the three most important reasons why this law should be passed. Finally, I want to tell you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support both conventions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24503	Thank you. National MP Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24504	Madam Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honor of exceptions, today the Serbian Parliament can be proud of its call, because this is already the second initiative of the Women's Parliamentary Network, where all have agreed as one vote and for this bill. The first was the abolition of the statute of limitations – sexual abuse of minors, this is the second topic, so on. Istanbul Convention. I will try to speak, as I would say, in everyday language, in order for the public to stay with what I'm saying, because often the laws that ratify certain agreements, the conventions are a little bit incomprehensible for the common viewer, conditionally speaking, and remain somewhere aside what is the essence and what are the effects of these agreements and conventions. In order for that not to happen today, I will speak a little bit, not as detailed as the Istanbul Convention, and other points that are united at this point in the agenda, and a little later on, about confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, and I will say that with such a full heart. Because this is how Serbia should today be proud of its parliament, MPs, especially the Women's Parliamentary Network, but on all this a little later. What I want to talk about today at the beginning is a bill to confirm the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada and a similar agreement, conditionally said, on social security between Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The agreement with Canada was signed in April of this year with Luxembourg in June of this year, saying that we arrived relatively quickly at the confirmation and ratification in parliament, which once again confirms that these topics of social protection, social security are very important to us and somewhere among the priorities. Keep in mind that Serbia is at a very difficult moment and that, by an urgent procedure, it adopts many of the laws necessary for the functioning of the state in such a situation, at such a complex moment. Therefore, I repeat again, this is a relatively fast ratification of the agreement. Both the social security agreement is an international agreement that regulates pension and disability insurance, health insurance, work and occupational illness insurance, and the Social Security Agreement with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is about childcare and maternity insurance. In addition to those generally accepted principles and the experience of our country in this area, there are standards that provide for EU Regulation No 883, which regulates the social security of migrant workers. No matter what I said about speaking a simpler, more everyday, simple language, I was reintroduced into this official legal language. I want to tell you that social security and social security, the health care of our people in the diaspora is among our priorities. Many of our people outside Serbia are located and we have to work to improve their position and ensure those rights they have, and they are certainly not at a satisfactory level. These two certification laws, with Canada and Luxembourg, will certainly help. The next draft law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the field of international adoption is very important, as you could hear from other speakers today. International adoption is a relatively recent phenomenon, but after World War II it began to develop as a legal institution. However, since the 1970s, so the 20th, the number of such adoptions has increased dramatically. As these adoptions grow, there are also new situations that are close to abuse in today's world, when some moral principles are among the last ones on our list, such conventions as will protect children, especially in this area of international adoption, are a very specific area. It is possible that a large number of users and citizens will not be covered by this convention, but we must not allow any child to be the victim of the abuse of international adoption. So, this law has brought certain provisions of the Convention into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, provided more effective protection of children without parental ageing, certainly increased security in the process of international adoption, then secured post-adoptical protection of the adopted child and what is interesting about this Convention and what other colleagues did not talk about, deliberately skipping those contents mentioned by previous authorised speakers in parliament, because I want the public to hear as much new information as possible, this Convention has a large number of ratifications in the world, and this is certainly an important element in the decision that Serbia also ratifys this Convention. It is particularly important that most of the European countries ratified this contract, including countries in the immediate environment. For now, 79 countries, including most EU member states, are China, the United States and the Russian Federation, have ratified. So much for these agreements. I certainly say they deserve more time, but we'll talk about it in some future period, because I think that actually consciousness in Serbia has changed a lot and that, as you would say, it won't be able to do this anymore. There are many young educated people in this assembly of parliaments who have been active in the NGOs and have learned one way of working there, where we do not give up until we have solved a particular problem. We get the initiative from the field, we get from people who live in this difficult everyday life whose problems are not offered to us on the plate, but the trouble has forced them to pressure us, us who are passing and changing the laws, and we are monitoring them, to change them, and to bring them to Parliament's agenda. One of the priorities of the Women's Parliamentary Network in the Serbian Parliament, which we should certainly be proud of, the whole of Serbia and Parliament, because, here, this is a convenient situation to say that even in the last, yesterday's report by the European Commission, where the work of the Serbian Parliament has been praised as proactive, as modern, as a Parliament that is open to public initiatives, which has not been recorded so far, has been a special contribution to all this by the Women's Parliamentary Network. I'm glad all the colleagues who have spoken so far mentioned the Women's Parliamentary Network. I want to tell those who listen to this direct transmission that this network is making up all the MPs of this House. Now there are 84 of us, thanks to the last law, there are 1/3 of us women in parliament and I think that we used it the best way possible and we will continue to work on promoting the network and strengthening our influence, as much as our presentations and our position in parliament allow. What is interesting for Serbia is that the MPs over certain priorities have gathered to insist on solving very big problems in Serbia, especially when it comes to women. There is also the area of combating violence, what is on our agenda today, then fighting for the economic empowerment of women, i.e. assistance in this area, education and women's health. This may sound too general, but believe me, since February of this year, for the seven, eight months that the network exists, we've made a number of initiatives to start future co-operation, and also meetings where we've only met certain people, to hear how they think, without perhaps hints of future co-operation. But there is time, things change in Serbia. There are trade unions and NGOs and media, numerous foreign offices of various humanitarian and international important organisations working in our country and abroad. Many embassies, representatives of the diplomatic crust in Serbia, also gave us great help and support. So, the Women's Parliamentary Network is one body that can be a great tool to fix the country's image, not to write it on paper, but because people, using the power of 84 MPs in this parliament, can promote positive things in Serbia. We've abolished the obsolescence of sexual abuse against children, that crime. Promoting, encouraging the Istanbul Convention, or the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, is our second big step. Of course, the ministry is proposing this bill, but I have to tell you that very, many colleagues from the Women's Parliamentary Network have been working on getting on the agenda as soon as possible, so that as many colleagues think about it. The problem of domestic violence and women in Serbia has been diagnosed. That's not the problem at all. You have heard many colleagues and I am glad that we have heard many figures and many earthquake cases in Serbia. I'm glad we took at least one day of Parliament to talk exclusively about it and that the public can listen if she's interested. I want to commend my male colleagues. I think this is a unique opportunity for us to have a representative of the Single Serbia who, as a man, was interested in talking about this subject, among the authorised rapporteurs. You know about those traditional frameworks -- women deal with these topics in Serbia. They're rare men, but in parliament it's different. I am glad that parliament is the bearer of these changes in Serbia. My colleagues stood side by side with us and wanted to talk about this, to help solve these problems. We're stronger here, and there's that message that we're supposed to send, so that this big problem is all we can solve together. Here's some more numbers. 44 speakers have been reported for discussion, following us authorised speakers. Of those 44 speakers, 14 are men. It is very interesting that a third of the men have been involved in this topic and you will hear very interesting information from them. What I can guarantee for SNS deputies is that colleagues coming from different cities from Serbia have been extremely committed and have contacted institutions in their cities and have brought data about what it looks like in Serbia. We are limited in time here, but I would like you to pay attention by the end of the day to listen to that picture of Serbia, what is the state of violence against women and family. I also find it very interesting to present colleagues who will talk about violence against men in Serbia. So, 75% of violence in Serbia, when it comes to partners and family, is happening against women, but we have 25% of violence against men, and we must not ignore that, because these people are experiencing the same trauma as women. I find it very interesting that today in Parliament we have very few journalists, very few media outlets. In the announcements, if you followed, you could hardly hear the so-called Istanbul Convention to be on the agenda. I expected several shows where we would invite relevant experts to discuss this before we are expected to discuss it on the agenda. I expected them to ask us about it today. Maybe there'll be some days if someone finds it interesting. I think the media would have to pay a little more attention to this, because other than the fact that we in Parliament are passing a certain law on paper, it's a long way to go until the victim starts using the effects of that law. The ratification of this Convention of the Council of Europe is just the beginning. We signed this convention on 4 April 2012. It's been a year and a half before it gets to parliament. Now the matter does not end today or next week by the vote of this Convention. We have a hard work to do in the formation of certain bodies, supervisory mechanisms, as well as certain other mechanisms to help the victim eventually feel the effects of this Convention and implement it. That's why our mission here doesn't end. We just opened the story today. That is why I call on both the media and the civil sector and the other institutions dealing with this, to bring this story to an end together in this wave of public space. Since we have already entered this great world and European family of countries where human rights are protected, I think we should take this chance in the best possible way. So, I haven't talked much today about the content of the convention, it will be the next 44 speakers in parliament. I wanted to send a message as a parliament, as a member of Parliament, a message from the public that we are aware that violence is a huge problem, but that our task is to speak out loudly about this Convention, that is, until we implement it and implement it in public. The convention has so far been confirmed by five countries of 31 signatories. So, from the moment we sign, I said a little while ago, there's a period of implementation ahead and it can take a few years to confirm. For now, Albania, Italy, Montenegro, Portugal and Turkey have confirmed after the signature. The other countries to number 31 are in the confirmation process and this process is very important. When the reserves of the Republic of Serbia are on certain provisions of this Convention, I would like to point out that these reserves are actually a sign that we are ready to work on removing these causes which now make it impossible for us to confirm at this time the Convention without a reserve. It's a good sign that we're very serious about the implementation of this convention. Of course, there remains room for us to verify that by the time we have to confirm it, or deliver certain instruments to ratify the competent bodies of the Council of Europe, to try to postpone it, or to cancel those reserves, but we will work on it. This is also about the harmonisation of certain legal rules and the opening and formation of many other bodies and bodies to assist in implementation. Thank you for your attention. I want to ask the public that, as my colleague Elena Travar from the U.S.S. said, every six months at least, we ask what's going on with the so-called implementation. Istanbul Conventions. We all have to work on it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24505	Thank you. Since we no longer have the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Neven Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24506	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament and MPs, I will use the time to discuss this united debate to speak exclusively about the draft law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, and therefore we JS MPs want to express the importance of adopting this law and provide no backup for this fight and give our contribution to the vote for this bill. According to the annual report and statistical data from the Observatory to monitor violence against women, we come to the conclusion that most domestic violence, more specifically, is done by about 70% on women and girls. According to statistics, women are more likely to be killed and injured in the family than in any other social environment. According to UN data, the first cause of death and disability among women aged 15-45 is neither illness nor car accidents but precisely violence, and the most dangerous place for a woman is her own home. The most common perpetrators of violence, research still shows that they are spouses and former spouses. Each third is about that numerical expression of the crisis faced by women. To illustrate this, we will say that of the three girls sitting in the classroom learning to read and write, one will suffer violence only because she is a woman. Of the three women who went out to the market to sell what they grew to feed their family, one will be attacked and most likely attacked by her direct partner. Every third woman has been raped, beaten, or otherwise abused during her life. According to the analysis of this data, we can rightly say that in a large number of cases it is precisely gender-based violence. More specifically about the degradation, the psychological and physical abuse of women and girls, because by the convictions of the bullys they are in a subordinate position and deserve all these forms of violence. The goal of the bully is control. He wants to decide all situations when it comes to a woman's life. He decides what she has to do, what she has to think, what she has to say. The bully achieves control of just constant intimidation, physical violence, and often these threats apply to children or to loved ones, parents, brothers, or sisters. With certainty, I claim that only women who have experienced it and live in these circumstances know what hopelessness and darkness hangs over their heads, does not allow them to breathe, to love and be loved as they deserve. I am also aware that many, reflexically, frown when they hear this syntagma – gender equality, because it directly associates them with feminist movements and the struggle of some women for something that already exists. But this particular data shows us that it's not some pointless fight, it's just a struggle for a normal life, for a freedom that we all, whether we're born as women, like women in the country or women in the city, or whether we're born as men, we deserve. What really bothers is that in this struggle, men are increasingly involved, which I think are probably the most important link. We can say that instead of a war of sex, a new kind of alliance comes out when it comes to violence against women, where the vast majority of men, even 83%, feel that violence should be severely punished. On this occasion, JS appeals to these male members of our society who respect women to influence boys and men, primarily in their family, then in their environment and to prove by their behavior and to women as mothers, to women as wives, that women as workers who carry a great burden in the modern world deserve all the respect of this world. We are indeed taking a giant step towards building not only a more civilized but also a more productive society, where women and men will complement each other, create synergy and in a much nicer and easier way achieve goals. What we really hope is that this ratification of the Convention will not only result in a handful of legal measures, but will be a significant driver and instrument that, if, of course, adequately used, will help raise awareness of that part of the public who still considers violence against women and in the family to be a private and not public problem. To explain that from the corner of the JS Parliament Club, I'm going to use too much used but a really true phrase that the family is our society's cell. When the cells are sick, we have a sick society. That is why we believe that the responsibility of all of us, everyone in our domain, to do everything to prevent domestic violence against women, to punish us, and to protect the victims. As a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network, I must also point out that one of the main objectives of this informal group is just to fight against all forms of violence. That is why all MPs, regardless of political orientation, will support this convention. Due to limited time, I would like to conclude that JS will always remain consistent in the fight to preserve the true values of our society, consistent in protecting and helping women and children and creating healthy and functional families and better society. So once again, I'm going to say that we're going to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24507	Thank you. In accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break. We'll continue work at 3 p.m. [[after breaks]] The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24509	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, I would like to make some views on these draft laws confirming agreements between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on social protection, i.e. security and the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security. In view of the changes made in the past period in our country and in both signatories, the number of persons working and living in these countries, as well as the need to further develop and strengthen friendly relations and co-operation in all areas, and also in the area of social security, are assessed as being meaningful and mutually useful to adopt these two bill proposals. Following a series of rounds of talks by the delegations of the Republic of Serbia and Canada, these delegations in an open and friendly atmosphere discussed in detail and agreed on all provisions of the text of the Agreement between the two countries on Social Security. The agreement signed in Belgrade on 12 April 2013, is the first agreement with Canada in the area. This Agreement provides that the agreement with the Canadian province of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian province may also conclude an agreement on all issues of social security within the jurisdiction of the Canadian province unless the agreement is contrary to the provisions of this Agreement. Also, to regulate the area of social security following the negotiations in Luxembourg, an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security was signed on 7 June 2013. The entry into force of these agreements in relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ceases to be an agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security since 2003. The agreements are a comprehensive international agreement that regulates pension, disability insurance, health insurance, work-related insurance and occupational illness insurance, unemployment insurance, childcare and maternity care. By standards envisioning EU Regulation No.883 of 2004, which regulates the social security of immigrant workers. The agreed agreements contain solutions that are consistent with changes in the national laws of these countries, as well as the latest European standards in this area that will allow insurance and users the highest protection of their rights. These agreements are concluded in order to eliminate the negative consequences of the labour force movement, and their purpose is to ensure certain social security rights for persons living and insured in signatories and members of their families. These laws are particularly important, especially an agreement with Canada because we initially heard that about 100,000 of our citizens or origins from these areas live and work in Canada. All our workers who, over time, wish to return to their homes certainly have these agreements signed today. The standard solution and the principles that are represented through the provisions of the agreement are equal treatment of nationals of signatories in the area of social security. This principle means that citizens of another State are treated in the same way as their own citizens or under the same conditions have the rights and obligations of compulsory social security. The direct payment to the beneficiary who has obtained the right to give in place of his residence, pensions and other rights, is the purpose of this principle that the use of the right of compulsory social security does not remain restricted to the territory in which those rights are exercised. This principle ensures payment on the territory of another state of signatories, and in that sense a large number of our returnees who return after the working century will have no problem getting their pension, their acquired right to receive in place of life. The collection of insurance periods completed in both States of the signatories in order to exercise the right to pension or cash compensation, provided that the completed insurance training in the territory of one State of the signatories is not sufficient to exercise the right in a particular case, that State shall take into account and the internship completed in another State of the signatories. This enables the concept of a single working century, regardless of its work and the achievement of insurance in two countries. The very height of the right will depend only on the profits and the basics made according to the legislation in which the right is exercised. There is a general rule that pensions are determined in proportion to the length of the insurance standings and contributions in a given country. This particularly fits the position of the PUPS, that pension is acquired and pension is an economic and not a social category, so that some individuals or groups would like to present and declare their pension as a social category. Use of health care for persons with residence or residence on the territory of another country, signatures, tourists, pensioners, detached workers and others. The insurance principle that allows the burden of giving and social security to be borne by that State whose insurance policy is at stake. The application of the legislation of the State in which persons work means that the insurance obligation is determined by the law of the State in which the work is carried out or by some form of self-operation. This rule provides for exceptions in respect of posted workers, civil servants and diplomatic and consular representatives, crews of ships, aircraft, when the legislation of the countries from which they are addressed is applied. The agreement between our country and these two countries in this area is of paramount importance, primarily because of citizens of Serbia living and working in Canada and Luxembourg, which allows these agreements to exercise their social security rights. The Republic of Serbia is applying social security agreements with 26 countries, most of which are EU members living and working for a large number of our citizens. It is necessary to launch an initiative in the coming period to conclude agreements with other countries where there are our citizens, primarily in the region and in countries where our citizens live and work. With these existing agreements, protection in the area of social security would be achieved for the largest number of our citizens who live and work abroad. As far as the region is concerned, in my knowledge, we alone do not have a social security agreement with Greece, while with other countries in the region we have signed agreements. In line with this, the PUPS Group after this debate will support the proposal for these laws, as well as proposals for laws under discussion today, which are the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combat of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family and the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Child Protection and Co-operation in the field of international adoption, which my colleague Vera Paunovic spoke of a little more. I would like to express my special satisfaction that today's discussions have gone in the direction of supporting these laws, and for the first time we are reaching a consensus on something that I think is good, not only by these laws, but also by other laws that we should not be collecting political points, but by doing it essentially for the benefit of our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24510	Thank you. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Marko Milutinovic, elected from the DSS election list Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the Decision of the RIK, the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Mark Milutinovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to approach for the sake of taking an oath. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly approaches the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, the MP repeats. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the national envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! “ I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful work in the National Assembly. We're continuing our work. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24511	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I am truly sorry that this debate is not attended by the Secretary of State from the Department of Gender Equality. It would be really good, since I would like to highlight two messages that this parliament would have to send to the public. One message is zero tolerance to domestic violence and violence towards women. Another message should be for this topic to be a priority for government work. Life can't stop while the government solves or tries to solve economic problems, quite unsuccessfully. So violence against women and domestic violence has escalated. Society and state don't have the right answer. This country has laws, it has a national strategy, it has action plans. So, as far as regulations go, there is about everything needed to prevent violence against women and domestic violence. However, despite all this, violence is growing year after year. So obviously something doesn't work in implementing all the regulations we already have. Today, we have listened to all MPs who have spoken and highlighted their support for the Convention against Violence against Women and Family Violence and that is indeed positive. So probably all MPs will support these two conventions and two agreements that are on the agenda today. Of the 44 members of parliament reported for discussion, they have all circled that – for, the conventions and for those agreements. However, there is a strange picture of this list that points to the current state of relations between this society and this country towards the woman. Of the 44 MPs, 13 MPs are men. It is about the relationship that exists in the work of parliament where women represent 30% of all MPs. Obviously, there is also one deviation of this Parliament when on the agenda the subject is this important. When the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, so unfortunately tailored, represents, among other things, this Convention to fight violence against women, simply does not satisfy one quality in terms of taking seriously what is the problem with violence against women. Unless the problem is solved, we can expect to double that number of women killed soon. Unfortunately, we've heard unhappi statistics, but it's not just ritualistic enough to repeat statistics, to detect all the problems, it's also necessary to implement all the regulations aimed at protecting the victim. So what's going on with this convention that's being proposed? The State shall make one reserve according to Articles 30, 40 and 44. Article 30 refers to the country’s material responsibility to the victim, and 44 refers to the state’s response to its official duty without any limiting factors when it is necessary to process any action against the bully. Here is the opportunity for us here in parliament to stay not only on the verbal, some of the MPs, who today expressed their support for this convention, to vote to withdraw the reserve on these two members of the Convention, and here we have a concrete contribution from Parliament to the fight against violence against women and against domestic violence. It's already one step from verbal towards concrete action. That's what's missing from law enforcement. Obviously neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Health, nor the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are counting, especially the MUP, to coordinate their jobs and to try to deal with this major problem when it comes to domestic violence and violence against women. So zero tolerance to violence, top priority for the government because violence, family and women, is a clear indicator of what kind of problems this society is in, and with it, the state. Only if, in that sense, the society is healed, if this traditional approach to women who are so current and so strong, back a hundred years, in which case we can expect success on all other areas of state and social progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24512	The word has the People's Messenger Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24513	Mr. Minister, we have heard your opening statement and it is a real pleasure that on behalf of the reconstructed government, as a minister who has met the criteria of success, highly set by the prime minister, you have today the opportunity to defend the entire package of laws in the Serbian Parliament before the MPs. I will immediately say that this package of laws for MPs and MPs of the RS really represents those laws that you can and will receive our absolute support. During our presentations, we will look back at two laws, and therefore on two topics. The first is the law, or Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women, and the second is a document that speaks of international adoption of children without parental ageing. So violence in Serbia has reached the pandemic situation and there is almost no day without hearing that in a family, at school, on the street, there has been no violence in a sports contest. A family that should be a place of serenity for many women, unfortunately, in Serbia is the place of its greatest uncertainty, and because the family suffers the greatest violence that is not rarely, as we have heard so many times today, ends up with a fatal outcome. The family, which should be the place of its foundation, for every other woman, according to official data in Serbia, is the site of the largest psychological torture, and for every third, for God's sake, the place of physical violence. At random, I took a daily magazine completely certain that I would find some text on violence in it or any other daily newspaper. "Don't be afraid, he won't come home. That's what the police told me when they took him, but I can't, I can't go to sleep, I'm terrified, even though I know he's been arrested. “ This is just the beginning of a heavy confession by a beaten woman who dared to report violence, but this is also, unfortunately, the everyday one who knows how many other women in Serbia who never get the courage to report violence and violence because, unfortunately, violence has remained behind closed family doors many times in Serbia today. It's precisely because violence has become tolerated, acceptable, and I would say a stimulating way of conduct in our country, because criminal policy towards the perpetrators of violence is extremely mild, because it's not applied enough or all the measures are applied at all, because the processes are inadmissible for a long time, because it affects the victim of domestic or other violence to feel insecure, because women don't know what's waiting for them when the bully returns home, because he's afraid for a reason that violence doesn't happen again. We've heard a lot of data here today, a lot of different things, but they've all been aiming to tell us how big the problem of violence is in our country. Unfortunately, even the records aren't unique. You will often receive different data from the social work centres, police administrations, health institutions. In any case, besides all the campaigns, in addition to changing the legislative framework, a large number of violence in Serbia remains unprocessed. According to official data, only 16% of violence is obtained by a court epilogue. Over 25% of violence has been repeated more than five times. In 18% of family cases, besides women, the victim is someone else, and most often their children. In 75% of cases, the bully is a husband, partner or ex-husband. In 7.5% of cases, weapons were used to cause serious physical injuries. In 37% of the cases, the bully was under alcohol. What is likely to be interesting to you, given the population you most often deal with, is a huge number of women over 75 years of age who are victims of domestic violence. As you said yourself, more than 6,100 violent people were recorded this year alone, but at the same time 9,325 victims, including 4,838 children. In Serbia, many women feel ashamed because they are victims of domestic violence, because they have been brought up to suffer violence, but most of them, precisely because of economic independence, do not decide to leave the vicious circle. The data suggests that one victim of domestic violence and up to seven times returns to the bully before he comes out of the violence, and some never leave that closed circle. We will support this convention because we believe that its primary objective is to protect victims of domestic violence, but at the same time also to prosecute the perpetrators with a special accent on work, to prevent and establish a society that is more gender-sensitive. As an international document, this Convention plays a demanding role in obliging all signatories to better co-operation, to work together, to a common approach to solving problems. It plays a demanding role in prescribing procedures and protocols, when it comes to victims of domestic violence, but at the same time it deals with and combats discrimination and promotes essential equality with the promotion of policies and measures to protect victims of domestic violence. What is particularly important is that this convention has a segment that refers to children who are victims or witnesses to family violence. What remains as an open question is how ready are we as a society to apply this convention? The LDP colleagues specifically spoke about this. I'm afraid by this reserve, which we have shown as a state, we are in the beginning showing resistance to the document, not the willingness to represent it properly in our practice. So, by opening this topic, as a social, not a private problem for women and their families, I think it's really open the way to change both the social and cultural patterns for the prevention of violence. The second document is a document that speaks of the international adoption of children without parental ageing, and it speaks under what conditions and how it can be done, respecting the best interests of the child. This is a very sensitive topic, and I fear that many potential foster families, who are watching us right now, may have a sense of anxiety and are wondering what the Serbian MPs are doing now, and over 700 families are now waiting for adoption. I want us to send them an encouraging message, which is that the adoption of this document absolutely does not endanger their position because international adoptions are very rare, because international adoptions refer exclusively to those children for whom, within a reasonable period of time, about a year, an adequate foster family has not been found. As we heard on one of the committees, from representatives of the resolution ministry, an average of 11 international adoptions happen annually. They are mostly children with certain developmental disorders, children with disabilities, Roma children for whom potential foster families in Serbia do not show enough interest. That is why we believe that such adoptions, the international type, require additional regulation because they, both the degree of assessment and the degree of safety of children who go abroad, mean one additional security. The law also regulated how the state will continue to monitor the position of children adopted abroad through competent bodies. We think the children belong in the family. We believe that family is the best way to protect children, but I also underline that these international adoptions must have special treatment and under special care to be monitored. That's why we're going to support this document. What we can't support is the fact that at this point, 887 children under the age of 10, similar to adoption, are found in foster families. In a country that declares as the primary goal of child's best interest, as it should be, in a country where adoption is expected for several years and waits for several hundred couples, 887 children in foster families, similar to adoption, does not convince us of the safest work of all those in the chain of responsibility. I know it's not possible for all 887 children to find an adequate foster family, because if it were different, we wouldn't be adopting an international adoption document today, but I'm also sure that for a large number of children it had to be different. That's why we're asking you, Mr. Minister, who's to blame, who's not in the system of responsibility? What's this about? Why is this poor country, I'm going to say it's only for these children to allocate about 400 million for foster care, and maybe it could have been used for some other more adequate forms of protection? Is this about the passiveity of the custody organ? What was the role of the ministry here? What did you, as a competent authority, deny or have a third organ? We really expect concrete answers from you. I know this isn't something that could have been solved in the last year as long as you're a minister or something longer, but in the previous term, you were also the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social policy. In that sense, we cannot absorb you from full responsibility. That's why we expect you to specifically tell us what you're going to do towards the responsible, because if you don't tell us what this is about, we think you're absolutely taking responsibility for yourself, and as a responsible man who's long in politics, then you know what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24514	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24515	Thank you. Your Honors Minister, I will speak of both of these conventions that are within this item of the agenda. At first, I would like to say that the DSS, as well as the Women's Parliamentary Network, which is very active in this House, will support the adoption of these conventions. The Istanbul Convention is particularly important, because one of the main objectives of the Women's Parliamentary Network is to combat all kinds of violence in society. However, what concerns is that Serbia has passed some pretty good laws, adopted some other conventions and documents, and even I think that in 2011, a strategy on combating domestic and female violence was adopted, and that violence remains very widespread in our society. Even according to statistics, violence, especially domestic violence with fatal outcomes, is on the rise. Will ratification and adoption of the Istanbul Convention really affect the state of affairs, I don't know. We have recently also received a report on what the Committee, which follows the application of another convention, the UN Convention on the Prevention and Prohibition of Discrimination against Women, and what they think about Serbia applying this convention, which is a number of years in force in Serbia. Serbia has submitted three reports so far, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia. The second and third reports somehow went in the package. I think even this conference or this report to the Committee took place in June or July this year and what we got as an assessment of how Serbia is fighting discrimination against women in its society is not encouraging at all. They resent us, but they give us certain recommendations. Some of these recommendations on reports, about how we already apply some conventions and international documents, I'm going to list here and especially in this section of violence against women. I don't know how many chances you've had to read these observations of the Committee, but we've had a chance from many colleagues who've brought up all those problems that the system and institutions in Serbia won't say, but the problems they have and who don't solve. Let's say, in these observations and recommendations, more specifically, the emphasis is on the recommendations that the ministries should carry out an analysis and amend the Criminal Code and Family Law. We like to say that we have, especially when it comes to the Family Law, a modern law, with some good solutions, but we know, and we also know today, that some solutions are not good and that is what the UN Committee warns us about. Then they say they must encourage women to report violence. So, the state needs to run a constant campaign to raise awareness that violence is a crime and that the victim of domestic violence, I stress the word of the family because not only are women victims of domestic violence, there are children, but there are gods sometimes men, that the victim is not obliged to suffer violence for years, but that it has the protection of the state and that the state is the one who is encouraging, precisely because it will have protection, to report that violence. What else do they resent us for? They say -- to ensure effective investigation, that perpetrators of violence are punished by sanctions that are proportionate to the severity of crime, in other words, that our criminal policy is very mild. There are significant differences between the number of police interventions, the number of criminal charges filed and the number of convicted offenders. Then it is called on the state to provide assistance and access to protection, namely to build or provide, not always to invest large funds and build special safe houses, but to provide shelter and to be insufficient to separate from the budget. We will see who are talking about this convention today, and we will all vote, what will be in the draft budget for next year, whether items will be foreseen to remove some of these irregularities. Then, rarely to issue an emergency protection order for women at risk, i.e. not to intervene quickly enough. It's statistically evident how many emergency warrants there were. If there had been more of these urgent measures, we might have had fewer women killed and fewer fatalities. Of course, what's also a big problem, it's our inefficient, to say the reformed judiciary, so the trials are very long. You even have information that no trial against domestic bullyes has ended during a period that a woman has spent in a safe house. So, the victim is placed in a safe house, there's a time where he can stay in that safe house and when he comes out, the reason he's set up there is that I don't use an ugly word on the loose, but it's mostly not a trial. So it's the same problem when he gets out of the safe house. What has been said a lot today is that our institutions are not well connected, that there is bad co-operation between the centres for social work, the police and the prosecution. Based on the fact that this convention, which has already been in force for many years, we have been applying it, I'm afraid it does not give any hope that we will apply something much better if we don't change something. Now I'm going to say a few words about the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the area of international adoption. It's this second convention we're talking about. By the way, international adoption, you probably read it like I did, I didn't know much about it, in an explanation, that it was a relatively new phenomenon, that it appeared somewhere after World War II, that this area was quite unregulated and there was a lot of abuse, so I see that all these conventions that are trying to legalize this area are actually trying to make it right, so that's the goal and this convention, with you probably following from the media, some countries have a very bad experience when it comes to this international adoption. You know, for example, that the Russian Federation banned international adoption because they had some bad experiences. I don't know if that country had this convention at all, maybe it wasn't, so that's what caused these problems. Generally, this convention was adopted in 1993 under the auspices of the Hague Conference of International Private Law and is also known as The Hague Convention. But these days, Serbian citizens heard of another UN convention. The subject of this convention is similar. It is also called The Hague because it is the package of the convention that was then adopted, because it was called to the Hague Convention by a judge at a court unit in Valjevo, otherwise the judge of the Polish court, when he decided that the girl Rea Metejevic was returned, I will use the word and delivered to my father who lives in Zagreb, the father for whom her mother and Rea stayed for several months in a safe house. So that judge decided to bring the child back to the bully. The entire public of Serbia is familiar with that. Yesterday, in all the media, citizens of the League showed what they think of that decision. The Justice Department, in my opinion, reacted quite late. She made a recommendation, but now it's a matter that's never been solved. At first, I said that the Democratic Party of Serbia would vote in favour of this convention, but I really don't trust this judiciary either, so I'm afraid this Hague Convention on International Adoption will also be abused by a judge. I think it's a good opportunity for you to be here, you rarely come to us anyway, but I assume you are aware of the problems both parents and foster parents face in Serbia today. We as a parliamentary group and as MPs have received a lot of items from foster families throughout Serbia, because there are quite a lot of problems. It's mostly related to foster care and social work centres. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you've reached the subject. So this is what I'm talking about because this foster family asked me to talk about. It is the foster family of Markovic from Smederevska Palanka, where within a month, or September 2nd, the Centre for Social Work decided to move the two-year-old girl, who was only ten days old when she was placed in the foster family, for no reason to move her into another foster family, to prepare the foster family for adoption. There are more than 10,000 votes on the internet, most citizens of the Markovic family. I'd like you to take a personal look at this subject. That administrative procedure is over. You've already sent solutions from the Ministry, etc. In any case, I don't want to influence in any way. It's a administrative dispute. Please really look at what this is about. There has been a lot of talk in the media, and if anything to slow down this adoption process until you reconsider all these actions that preceded it. Feeding and moving, whether into another foster or adoption, it must have some procedure that must be respected and adequate preparations must be made, and all of this is in the interest of the child. By the way, these kids are experiencing terrible traumas where it's done in such a sudden and bad way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24516	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24517	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice President, Ministers, Associates in the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have very important laws ahead of us. I would say in the opening part that this time in which we live, with what daily international relations are, the flow of people, their presence, their life and work on various destinations in other countries, at all points of the globe, leads to many issues that are important to citizens, both our citizens and citizens of other countries. Today, the flow of people and connections between them are interests and all that is significantly spread across the globe for them. Today we can talk about the citizens of a country, and at the same time they are citizens of Europe and the world. That is why many of these issues that are relevant to them need to be addressed and, behold, today we have two important conventions ahead of us. One concerns child protection and co-operation in the area of international adoption. The second convention concerns preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence and two social security agreements between the Republic of Serbia and Canada and the other side between Serbia and Luxembourg. When it comes to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the area of international adoption, it is important to say that this Convention recognises the predominant importance of child rearing in the family environment. It's a condition for a happy childhood and for a healthy development of a child and that's what's basic. It is very important that this Convention prohibits the acquisition of financial profits, thus ensuring security, predictability and transparency for all participants in the adoption process. It is important to establish relations between the authorities of the countries of origin and reception in order to apply standards of the best interests of the child, which should ultimately prevent any abuse of the type of abduction, sale, trade in children and such worst acts. It is known that with us childcare without a parent, I am housed in another family, either family or foster, adoption or housing in a social protection facility. A child's housing in a social security facility is an extreme measure. Those are the standards that apply today. Maybe before 30, 40 or 50 years ago, it was an exaggerating goal, and it was considered to be the best. It has been shown that involvement in family and society at all, but starting with the family is the best way to respect all needs of children when it comes to children with developmental disorders. This is a particular problem, because even when we have adoptions and when we have children in foster families, children with developmental disorders are largely avoided, which is not the case when it comes to adoptions from other countries. What's best for every child is to grow and develop into a biological family. Sometimes when it comes to children with developmental disorders, we have that these children, even though they have their biological parents, grow up outside the family. There are many problems that dissuasive these biological parents and that even foster families have recently had some greater rights in the field of social protection than biological parents. I must say that the SPS parliamentary group in the past has acted to improve these issues, so in 2011 during the work on the Social Protection Act in co-operation with the Association of Parents with Disruptions in the Development of Zora from Loznica, we managed to significantly improve the situation of biological families and these children. For a reminder, one of the amendments was the right to increased other people's care and assistance for children and adults with special needs and established disability. From this right comes the second right, which is at the same time one of our most significant contributions, that is that one of the parents who has not been in a working relationship who for at least 15 years directly cherishes his child who has obtained the right to an increased allowance for the assistance and care of other persons, has the right to a special payment in the form of a life-long monthly income at the level of the lowest pension. Of course, when it completes its general retirement conditions according to PIO regulations. When it comes to international adoption, I want to say that there are certain differences and that prejudices in us are much greater than in people in other countries, but it is a process of maturing consciousness and time will do so. I would like to say when it comes to the Council of Europe Convention and to preventing and combating violence against women and violence in the family, that for all the praise that the female part of Parliament in a very comprehensive and quality way has dealt with this topic and that it is a great interest in the women's work of Parliament. We have heard that the male part of parliament has also been involved in this, although I personally believe that it could have been more involved, as our MP, Mrs Mira Dragas, who, on behalf of the SPS, presented these conventions and these issues, is not only a woman, even the male question would have been said above all. Why is that a man's question? Every man today isn't complete, it's not the whole thing to say without that woman's component. That component is very simple and simple. Every man has his own mother or has his own daughter, he may have a sister, a wife, or a girl, and only in some such relationships is he supposed to be. So, of course, we all need to get involved in one appropriate way. I would commend the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy if it had put these laws on the agenda of the National Assembly, because these are very important issues. I commend you on behalf of the SPS for you, Mr. Vice President and Minister and your associates, to address other issues in one very responsible and professional way. What is important in this Convention, especially for us from the SPS parliamentary group, is that the Convention states that there is no justification for certain violence that seems to be caused by a particular culture, religion, custom or so on. Honor, so it's now an extenuating circumstance in some environments that there's been violence. That can't possibly be and that can't be an excuse. I would also say that this other component is not only a legal-formal regulation in the repression and prevention of violence, but it is also important to prevent violence against women and children. The education system can do much with other ministries and other organisations. In 2005, the programme "A school without Violence" was launched. That's very important. There are other projects and programmes, preventing digital repression, and then through one annex memo, the MUP became involved in this project to protect children from violence, i.e. "A school without violence". It's not just about legal regulations that need to settle these issues. We have to deal with these issues both in the fields of culture and in the fields of education and in the field of information. Our attention and the public should be focused on dealing with these issues in a more contentable and concrete way. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for these conventions and agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24518	The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24519	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will focus on my speech mainly on the Istanbul Convention. Not because I consider other topics to be less important on the agenda, but primarily because I have had the opportunity, through the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to follow and prepare from the very beginning to draw up this Convention, only the adoption of the Convention and the end of the great campaign that the Council of Europe has launched and led in the various Member States over these last years. Many reports, various studies have shown that violence against women and domestic violence is so widespread in Europe that standards are so uneven and that it is necessary to protect human rights, protect women's and children's rights, to level those standards, and therefore the Council of Europe has initiated the creation, adoption, adoption of this so-called. Istanbul Conventions. What is clear to all of us is that violence against women and family violence is daily in Serbia. Reports suggest the spread of this problem, news reports suggest devastating forms of domestic violence and violence against women. We often question whether violence against women and domestic violence has increased compared to what it was before? I think that question is entirely relevant. What's important today is that we realize that this was a private problem, that we haven't illuminated it as a society, that today when we light it as a social problem, when we're fighting it on our own, we're able to demonstrate all the seriousness and devastating fact of this phenomenon. I think that as DS in the previous government, we have made great efforts to launch a number of mechanisms that will mitigate this phenomenon, which will provide victims with certain protection mechanisms, that through the National Strategy adopted in 2011 and through the amendments to the legal rules, a serious social action is launched to combat violence against women. I think it's important that the support that's been given to safe women's homes and all the other organizations that have been involved in this fight in all these years. It is not enough because the problem is huge and because the number of women exposed to violence is so great that we, as a poor society, can have such mechanisms of protection, defenses that every woman can most effectively protect against violence. However, the Autonomous Women's Center also shows that prevention programs are quite controversial and that we need to intensify them. Victims need to be guaranteed greater protection, more comprehensive support, and the problem of processing the perpetrators is a particular problem that we must pay attention to through our judiciary and provide much greater punishment. In my opinion, many and in my personal opinion, the penalties imposed on the perpetrators of violence against women and domestic violence are extremely mild. The question arises and we cannot answer that – why so much domestic violence, why so much violence against women? In addition to the poverty, the many problems that we have from the 1990s, war destruction, refugee and everything that affects one terrible change of social structure, there is something in our social environment that, in my opinion, in our everyday lives, in some way encourages violence. I don't think that as citizens, we can't stay blind, and as politicians, we can't condemn all those phenomena that we do through media content and through some very aggressive advertizing, in which a woman is portrayed as an inferior being, but we, too, when we communicate with each other in this public sphere, do not give enough respect and respect to each other, and it seems to me, and it has a certain fact to the citizens, that we are not developing enough quantity and we are not encouraging a certain amount of tolerance and fight violence and any kind of aggression. In our society, violence has been imposed over all these years and crises and wars, and we have to fight more versatile and cross-sectorally against it. Violence against women and domestic violence is rather linked to discrimination, although discrimination in itself does not necessarily have to be violence, and it does not need much analysis, so it is concluded that a person who today, at his chance in Serbia, seems to have very little chance of violence avoiding it. If we try to take a photo of that person's robot, I believe we'll all agree that it's a girl of Roma nationality living in a family with more children, brothers and sisters, where parents are unemployed and living in one of the poorest municipalities in Serbia. It is very hard that it will avoid various types of violence. It's something we have to pay special attention to. However, we face a very common prejudice, which is that domestic violence and violence against women are linked to the poorest layers that are existentially endangered. That's absolutely not true. I think much less attention is being paid to the fact that there are far fewer cases of violence in city centers in large cities. I don't think it's in any way related only to the poorest layers, but it exists in very well-being Belgrade families, if you will. We close our eyes in front of that fact like it's happening to someone else very far away from us. This Convention has one tripartite, if I may say so, protection provides three levels of protection. One is prevention and it proposes and sets out the measures that each Member State, i.e. the signatories, should take and develop within its own frameworks. The second is the victim's protection and the third level is punishment. I think it is very important that we bear in mind that the Convention lays the groundwork for the introduction of new crimes and for a much more effective response from the state to violence. Also, every state of the signatories is asked for efficient monitoring and that's something where we're going to have to take a significant step forward, just given that our statistics, our reports are not accurate enough in that sense. I think it is important to stress that the fight against domestic violence and against women cannot be in the jurisdiction of only one or a few state institutions, that an intersectoral approach, a multidisciplinary approach is needed, and in that sense I want to take this opportunity and call on all those municipalities that have not yet adopted the Protocol on the Accession and Cooperation of institutions and bodies and organisations to do so, because we will achieve that there is better co-operation between different institutions and bodies. On my part, I would like to support this amendment in relation to the reserve that the Government has filed on a member of the Convention relating to the compensation of damages. I hope, however, that we will all vote unitedly for the adoption of this Convention by proving that we are unique in condemning any violence, especially violence against mothers, daughters, wives, sisters and friends, but also against any form of domestic violence that increasingly includes boys and young men. I hope that this way we will contribute to the reduction of human suffering and the preservation of many lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24520	The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24521	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, is on the agenda today so-called The Istanbul Convention and the number of registered speakers, my colleagues confirm the exceptional importance of this topic. There is a saying when you have a marital disorder – a better divorce than a bad marriage. In the Republic of Serbia, there is a small number of spouses who are guided by this saying. According to unofficial data, more than 20,000 applications for domestic violence are filed annually. There's no record of how many women don't report domestic violence, so unfortunately this number is much higher. The current programme of prevention of domestic violence has proved inadequate and insufficient and that the implementation of the Convention in our legislation will hopefully contribute to the improvement of the same. There is a problem in Serbia that a small number of violent people have been prosecuted in general. The victim has the fear of turning in a bully, or after reporting, giving up on the promise of a bully that violence will no longer be repeated. Violents who have been prosecuted have been sentenced to fines, so it is necessary to amend the existing provisions of the Criminal Code by introducing a stricter criminal policy. The forms of violence most often referred to are physical violence that not so rarely ends in death, sexual violence, economic and non-essential verbal violence. The Centre for Social Work as a guardianship body has broad powers, but I believe that they are either overloaded or have a lack of professional people, but do not work or contribute to their status as a key institution to protect against violence against women. Today, domestic violence, unfortunately, is a widespread phenomenon. Every third woman is a victim of domestic violence, while each other suffers psychological violence, and more than 90% of the cases of perpetrators of the crime in the family are men. According to data from the Novi Sad Police Administration, 151 domestic violence was committed during the first seven months of 2012. Functions and the establishment of a safe women's house are achieved to improve social protection, help women and children at risk of violence. We have safe houses and SOS phones, but I think we should educate through the media that there are these kinds of aids for victims of violence. It should not be forgotten that Serbia continues to have a patriarchal model of family relations, the economic dependence of women on their abusers. Many women are afraid to report violence. Some believe that they deserve to be beaten because they were not good, obedient wives and mothers, or think worse – where to go, their husband will take her child, and they will suffer better. Defeating the UN's data is that the first cause of death or disability is women between 15 and 45 years of age of violence and that for a woman the most dangerous place is her own home. Violence against women in the family is considered an internal family problem. As long as we look at him like that, we won't be able to solve this problem. Violence in the family is not a personal problem, but illegal and illicit behavior that must be sanctioned and prevented. One of the main objectives of the Women's Parliamentary Network is the constant fight against all forms of violence, which was joined by our fellow MPs who came forward today, and I think that's progress for our patriarchal society and thank them for that. The convention that is before us advocates equality between women and men. In a society where there is a subordination of women to men, violence is a more certain phenomenon. Historical women were in a subordinate position. I'm not a feminist, but we all know that in our society there's still a winged woman that's home for a woman, and it's not a job. When a woman doesn't have a job, she doesn't have a reception, so her husband supports her and we have the domination of a man over women. Children in the family are often victims of violence itself, or are witnesses when Dad beats Mom because Mom wasn't good and creates a pattern of behavior. It's not rare for a child who is a witness to violence and only becomes a bully when he grows up, because it's the pattern we see in. The convention that we need to adopt defines the objectives that the signatories state should achieve, and the most important goal is to protect women, because only by protecting women contributes to the prevention of all forms of violence, protection measures, support and assistance. In light of the devastating statistics and the position of women and the spread of domestic violence, I call on everyone to vote on the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24522	Thank you, too. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24523	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we will, of course, support the signing of this convention. Our reserve is, I think, completely justified, because we are not sure what the Ministry is prepared and able to take on this matter in the future. We praise the fact that we are the sixth to sign it, this convention, and I don't think the others have signed it yet because they take every word of this kind of convention very seriously, and one of the words that is often repeated is: signatories commit themselves to many things under this Convention, and experience teaches us that we can easily sign, and we find it difficult to implement what we have committed ourselves to. That the suspicion is justified also convinces me that Mrs Stana Bozovic, who runs the birth equality facility, is not present at the moment. So we have an institution, but those who need to discuss with us and who we need to talk to about this convention and apply that convention aren't here. I have a problem with the fact that always these kinds of conventions deal most with victims and less with perpetrators. No matter what I say as a man, I know I'm not a perpetrator, at least I'm not aware of the type of violence, but I think the basic problem in our society is that we rarely deal with those who commit crimes and with all kinds of crimes we have a special relationship. In this convention in Article 9, I tried to get some members out as very important, talking about citizens' associations. It is also recognised as an obligation to encourage and support the work of relevant associations of citizens and civil society in the fight against violence against women and to establish effective co-operation with these organisations. As you know, many may not even know, there is a whole network of civil society organisations called the Women's Network to fight violence against women. They function in very difficult conditions, without real support from the state, without real communication with the state. I assure you that the civil society organisation will closely monitor the application of this Convention and remind you of this commitment at any time when this obligation is not fulfilled. A member who I have no doubt will be honored is Article 10, which is the formation of a coordinating body, one or more. It will form these bodies, it will become a prey again for some people who have never before, and even during their work in these bodies will not be engaged, such as a birth equality facility. I have to ask one question, I am sorry that the secretary of state is not here, which, as far as I know, has received a project from Sweden, which is called – priority activities from the national action plan for the implementation of the National Strategy to improve women's position and improve gender equality. It's supposed to start in January this year. As far as I'm aware, he hasn't started yet, because relations between the institution and the ministry are on the issue -- who and how should he have these funds, undefined at the request of the ministry. I will also ask as a parliamentary question, to answer me, why is a million and a half euros for a three-year project not yet touched, but is it waiting for you to agree between yourselves – how to protect and improve the position of women in society? Article 14 says – the parties they sign undertake to take the necessary steps to introduce teaching material on issues such as equality, etc. You undertake to establish communication with the ministry that refused the project to inform your teachers of the Anti-discrimination Act. The anti-discrimination law was not at all a topic in the teaching at any level. Our teachers don't recognize discrimination, they don't know what legal solutions are at their disposal, they can't fight discrimination. How will he fight domestic violence? Are our teachers trained to identify among children victims of violence? Are professional services in schools, psychologists and others sensitive to this subject? As far as I know, they're not, and you're bound to do something about it. It is a huge job for which you will certainly not have the support of the ministry, and even less in the schools themselves, because it will be understood, unfortunately, as another burden, as another additional obligation in and such a difficult and complicated curriculum and plan, as it is being implemented with us. The introduction into the education of the subject of violence as such and the topic of violence within the family is the obligation that you have made and therefore I am very pleased and it will be monitored, I assure you, as concentrated as possible. We'll follow what's done in that sense. The school system, the way it is, it's not ready to accept it. This is seen, among other things, in the way people with disabilities and other minority groups are involved. So these are problems that need to be treated in a special way and I am glad that this convention obliges you to do so, as it obliges you to train experts who may be in school, but I can be and, let's say, in judicial authorities. In our judicial authorities, when the verdicts are considered, it is evident that in all divorce cases, any property is not at all taken into account in the registration of any property that any family property could be registered as property of a woman. He's always the owner of a husband, and according to this convention, it's a kind of financial violence committed against women. This kind of awareness and training of women, to recognize their right, can only come from school, from the education system, and from other campaigns conducted in this society. The case is now mentioned with this girl who was brought from Croatia, among other things, because her mother did not have any means prescribed in her own name, and could not support that child in Croatia while living there. Of course, since both conventions are often unpleasantly concrete, there is a member of the 24th that says – the parties undertake to take measures necessary by law, as well as other measures to establish non-stop, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, free SOS telephone lines covering the whole country, etc. A few months ago, we had to intervene last year for the closure of seven SOS phones in Serbia, so at the last minute it was prevented, because, among other things, on the account of that same birth equality administration there were funds for it, but no one was involved. At this point, I am directly aware of this, SOS phones run by civil society organisations, women's organisations, are in the same problem again. You commit to help these SOS phones work because it's not only a victim's concern, it's a kind of prevention, because you train potential victims to rightly oppose the violence that threatens them. Of course, I know it costs. What I'm worried about is the fact that you put the fence on the question of compensation to the victims, because there's no money. If there's no money to make up for, there won't be any SOS phones.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24524	Thank you. Great. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24525	Thank you. I hope I deserve your commendation, too, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, given that today we have a minister whose jurisdiction and social issues are with us, to remind me that today is October 17th - World Day Against Poverty. This is the day we need to remind ourselves of all the problems of poverty and certainly connect it to this topic, because both violence and child care are connected to it. You, Mr. Minister, are very often in public making the impression of a man who is consistently and successfully fighting for pensioners' rights. I would invite you to fight with the same determination for the rights of the poor. I would remind you that in this country, unfortunately, the poorest population is children, not pensioners. I'd like to hear you speak a little louder in the protection of their interests, especially now that their parents will be even poorer, given that we expect to collect basic life supplies. I will not talk about these conventions from the aspect of interpreting their provisions, nor will I convince them. I want to congratulate all the colleagues who got involved in the debate today. I don't think violence against women is a woman's question, and I don't want to compliment my colleagues who talked about it, I mean that. I'd like to see more men, and I'd like to be honest with you, to see Mr. Secretary talking to us about this and leading the controversy if necessary. I would like, Mr. Minister, that, apart from reading the text, you are taking part in this debate with us and that you will first and foremost tell us what you will do to make these conventions in Serbia really effective. What are you going to do to apply these conventions in practice? Maybe for starters, if you'd listen to me, you could answer my question. First of all, when it comes to foster care, I believe that you have information about how many children are in foster care, but what I want to draw your attention to is that, according to the data I found last year, among the children who were in foster care were 112 students and six master and doctoral studies. According to the data provided by the centers, the job training is 26 children. I think, Minister, it's your job to go along with other ministries, not only to ensure that these kids get out of foster homes, but to really make it possible for these kids to find a job. What is it that 26 young people who have been through a difficult life journey, have completed their education, have, as you say, trained for a longer life without being able to find a job? Isn't it a priority to help them? I expect you to be active in this matter and to address such specific problems, not just about conventions, give a real contribution to improving the position of these children. What I would even more seriously like to draw your attention to, Mr. Minister, is that, according to the 2012 data, 27 children in foster families were exposed to abuse and violence. So 27 children, who were separated from their families because they were neglected and abused, suffered violence while they were in foster families. Okay, maybe you'll say that could happen. But how can it happen, Mr. Minister, that only four criminal charges have been filed for these 27 acts? They are registered as abuse, and only four criminal charges have been filed. It's the direct responsibility of the ministry you're leading, and I'd like you to give me an answer to that question. When we talk about violence against women, of course that's the problem of the whole society and the URS will, of course, support this convention. She's good for our country. Why? Because Serbia is still a society that is tolerance to violence and, unfortunately, tolerance to violence against women. Every third woman in Serbia is a victim of physical violence. Every other woman is a victim of psychological violence. Every fourth woman in Serbia at least once was a victim of violence. Every third day, newspapers in Serbia publish articles on abused, beaten or murdered women. 38 women have already been killed in Serbia as victims of domestic violence. Only 16.5% of cases have been reported to the police. In 25% of cases, violence is repeated more than five times. In 18% of cases, other family members were abused, of course, mostly children. Then, 7.4% of violent men use weapons or tools to cause serious physical harm to women. In 74% of cases, the bully is a spouse. Ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia, 72% of parents still think that the beating from heaven is out and admits to beating their children. Every child in Serbia was at least once exposed to physical violence. That's why this convention is important. But what's more important is what we're really going to do to implement this convention, above all, in the part that talks about the prevention of violence. The Convention says that our country is obliged to change social and cultural patterns with the aim of eradicating prejudice, customs and traditions based on the idea of women's inferiority. Can we do that? What exactly are you going to do, Mr. Minister, to make these patterns change? Does this mean that we will no longer all stand behind the need to protect traditional values in Serbian families? What are traditional values in Serbian families, and what is, after all, a traditional Serbian family? Is it perhaps time to change the provisions of a classic family? Because, family, you'll admit, it's been a long time since it's just mom, dad and kid. What are we going to do to make culture, customs, religion, tradition or so on. They don't consider honor an excuse for violence against women? A huge number of high school students in one survey said it's justified to beat a girl or a woman if she cheats on a man. What are we gonna do to really change that? Will we continue to cultivate traditional Serb patterns? In a study by Mr. Zarko Trebjesanin in one of his texts on what traditional Serbian patterns are, analysing the oral and written literature of Serbian, he says women in traditional Serbian culture are presented as deceptive, evil, chatty, cunning, stupid. It's a traditional Serbian understanding of women. Here's some evidence. For example, sayings that we often like to call out: "Swung on a dog and hit a girl", "A horse and a woman should be held by the ular", "People when they roar, let women torture," "A woman and a snake hit on the head", "Whoever doesn't beat a woman, he's not a man." These are traditional Serbian patterns and stereotypes of women. The only time a woman is mentioned in a positive context is if she's a mother and a housewife. Today we still hear some politicians telling us that women need a little more hacking and a little less doing other things. This is what we will be obliged to change under this convention to prevent violence against women, not just so we can all speak unanimously as we really believe it. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, only one quote from Mr. Nimiller, the German intellectual who said, wrote one song that reads: “When they came for the communists, I kept quiet, when they came for the Jews, I kept quiet, because I was not Jewish, when they came for the union people, I kept silent because I was not a unionist, when they came for the Catholics, I kept silent, because I was not a Catholic, and when they came for me there was no one left to rebel. “ Ladies and gentlemen, the violence in Serbia is beating up women, beating up members of other national groups, and they will come for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24526	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24527	Thank you. Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I am going to have little to do with this particular issue relating to the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. The gender-based violence in high percentage ends in deaths, and we've already heard it today, and I really think we should keep saying that, to remember that, in the past 2012, 32 women have been killed precisely by this gender-based violence, or they have been victims of this violence, and they have died. In this year, we heard, the number is moving about 40 women, that it is to this day, which is a truly devastating fact, and that regardless of what we are introducing, some measures of protection, prevention and the like, this situation is getting worse and worse. A few months ago, we were discussing here on the Citizens' Protector's Report, and there we also had a few data that spoke, meaning relevant facts, which then came out, or who gave certain results and said that by the law of the prescribed measures, which we have defined, are not respected as much as possible to protect these victims. We don't have adequate interinstitutional co-operation, so between the organs that should be dealing with this big problem. Also, there is one general protocol which these employees in these particular institutions can respect, but there is no protocol in special ministries dealing with this problem of domestic violence. These are major problems, and I think that this convention that gives us a complete framework, and in what way, if it were to be applied with full capacity, could in some ways lead to a decrease in this rate from year to year. Because it defines in detail everything that should be done, which should be done to prevent domestic violence in the family and prevent above all, most importantly, but only in accordance with the domestic legislation of the signatories of this Convention. We also need our legislation that is more or less, we have heard it is not bad, but it must be applied. That's what's important. We are mistaken to say that this convention is only for women, here, it is mentioned in the preamble that signatories say, or agree that violence affects women unevenly, and that men can also be victims of domestic violence. So this applies to all, as well as to children and old ones, all victims of domestic violence. The commitment of the state, above all, is the most important and it must be to establish this inter-sectoral co-operation, co-operation between the authorities, between the ministries of justice, between health institutions, the Ministry of Interior and all other institutions, social labour centres and all other institutions participating in this chain. Therefore, coordination must be established. It often happens that, for example, because of the non-cooperation of a particular fact known to one organ, they are not another, and in the end we have a situation that we do not know at all that some bully, perhaps a particular case of psychiatry, etc. and it is not treated as it should be. What concerns me very much in this society that we live in and we've also heard, but it's not worse to repeat, that we should certainly throw out as an excuse for the violence of our cultural models, customs, religions, traditions or some honor there, that it's perfectly normal to hit a woman, beat her. What really defeated me, when I was looking into something, was researching this debate, and if you didn't know it, a few years ago, a study where the youngsters surveyed were 18 to 20 and who said, in over 80% of the cases, that they were at least once, imagine by those years of age, beaten, hit, pushed, slapped their partner, I don't know if they could be women, which is truly devastating. Fifty percent of cases of violence between men and women, or where women suffer, are actually relationships, not in the marriage community, which is an even worse situation for me. So these women don't think at all that it's not normal and it's bad and they have to sanction it in some way, but they're definitely getting married to the administration of these men. What's happening to us is what's happening to us. I think the most important thing in the whole story is prevention. You need to work on education, literally from school, so, from first grade, through workshops. I think that through civic education, a constant story and discussion should be introduced on the subject of violence, not only against women but certainly peer violence. Also, I think that raising awareness in both men and women is very important. The awareness of women, what her rights are, how and how she should address the competent institutions. To whom he can address and how he can stand up to that bully. Certainly media participation is as important as the training of experts involved in this topic. A strong campaign at the state level must be and we must all take care of each other together and try to talk to both women and men in our environment. I don't think it's just a male population that's most of the violence against women, but it's also a big problem for women who don't know how to deal with it. We have a situation today that is a really bad socioeconomic situation in the country. We have this alienation among people. I think, as a society, we should work on that socialization. That's why I think from a local level, the whole story should actually be based. So, through various institutions located at local level, especially gender equality advice, whether they are women's activities, whether they are NGOs dealing with issues of gender equality. They should be the backbone and that base where those women will come, where they will complain, who they will talk to. That certain socialization is created and that we don't get into a situation where these women aren't allowed to address anyone, that they can't talk about this subject, that they're ashamed of being beaten by someone. It's really not their shame, it's what everybody has to be aware of, first of all, these young girls. It's actually deviating the behavior of their partners or some member of their family. These are big and important things to talk about in order to get rid of. That's where we come into another situation, the procedure for reporting violence. Violence can be reported to the social labour center. So I talked to representatives of several of those centers and when it comes, fill out the application. Based on this application, workers at the Social Work Centre react, so they talk to the bully, call him. If he doesn't respond, it's about half the time, then they're looking for him in their local communities and they come to him, they're talking, but basically nothing is happening. This report of women may go to the health care center, to record injuries. He's going to the police station. Then it is directed to press charges, meaning to the court, the prosecution and those judicial authorities. This is where the biggest problems arise. The problems are that the court proceedings are very long and very complicated. This woman who comes to report violence she repeats and survives the trauma several times, repeats in the social work centre, in the home of health, in the police, in the court, in the prosecution, etc. He goes through the same thing all the time. Everyone's asking her the same questions. I think it's already too much for her. Also, in court, since these processes take a long time, her injuries have already healed more or less. These reports are being brought down in court by violent lawyers and the most violent ones go unpunished. In some cases they are sent for treatment, and they will never be sent from home, so they are not told the measure of having to leave home and that woman staying with the children. There's also a problem here where if a woman is oppressed she can't leave home because today she in over 95% of the cases, these women who are victims of violence, they're residential material, financial, economic, whatever you want depending on these men, and they have to stay there. There's a small number of women in this statistic that went to safe houses and found a job. It's a minor number, I don't know if there's 1%, or if it's below that number. It must also, above all, work on the economic empowerment of women, the realisation of certain projects, the setting of funds to help these women hire but certainly to bring the trial to an end as it should. Of course, as long as this procedure in court continues, of course, that violence continues, perhaps not physically, but continues in another form of psychic etc. That is why I believe that this convention really defines certain procedures in the very procedure of combating violence against women who are very important and who will introduce certain new crimes probably in our criminal law. So I think these problems that we're facing can only be solved together, only by prevention and only by speaking louder and by talking to all those women but also by men, especially young girls. It's not enough that they report those thugs already have to know that such behavior is not normal, that it's not justified, that they have to fight it, they have to ask for help, and we as a state have to make a stricter and stricter framework of how to deal with these thugs to be punished, so they never think about doing anything like that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24528	The word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Jovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24529	Dear Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, in my presentation, I would first and foremost refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. The adoption of this convention in May 2011 is a huge step in the fight against violence against women in Europe. Serbia adopted the National Strategy for the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women in the Family and in Partnership Relations in 2011, and signed the Istanbul Convention in 2012. In addition, we heard a lot of data today, unfortunately, a growing number of women killed by husbands, ex-husbands or partners and women victims of other forms of violence. According to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, the most common form of violence is domestic violence, violence of men against women, 90% physically, 75% mentally, 85% economically and up to 3.8% sexual violence. Most often in 78% of cases, the bully is a female partner, in 9% is a son, and in 4.2% of daughters. There are significant differences between the number of police interventions, the number of criminal charges filed and the number of persons convicted of domestic violence. There are significant obstacles facing women, especially Roma women and women with disabilities, when they seek protection from violence. There is also a warrant for emergency protection, and classified data on all forms of violence against women. Some women spend their whole lives in pain and suffering, neglected, abused, and some get out of such a situation. Do they deserve it, did all the institutions do what they do? What is the awareness of each and every one of us about this problem, the problem of violence against women. Will we continue to justify culture, customs, religion, tradition, honor, such acts of violence? Violence is a crime, and victims can be all family members, and the most represented form is violence against women. What about the kids who watch that violence? Violence against women is a public problem, not a private problem. By raising awareness among citizens, there is a real action against this kind of violence. The delusion is that violence is committed against women living in a rural area, less educated and economically independent. The truth is, any woman can become a victim. It is necessary to strengthen the prevention of violence against women, strengthen and connect the government and NGOs and raise awareness of the unacceptable violence as a model of family behaviour. The media has a big role, because they also influence the formation of a system of values, but with what children and adults look at every day in any way, such as "Farme", "The Big Brother", escalating performances without any criteria, various "times of truth", and the front pages of newspapers that are flooded with crime images and inappropriate content, because they are so better sold, can we provide a positive model of behavior and the formation of functional family relations and the conditions in which our children grow up. Perverse values, missed lives become a desirable model of youth behavior, easier to be bad, easier to get rich with fast crime and murder. This message comes from the media. Why don't we strengthen the family, because real investment is motherhood, healthy child, traditional values, because it costs less than investment in treating consequences. As a responsible society, we must face facts seriously and build a complete system of protection, from prevention to resolution of consequences. The care of women and children in the Safe House should only be a temporary solution, and the state must provide the victims with security in its own home. In a patriarchal society, domestic violence is considered a private matter, and if, in the tragic setting of women, the murder of a husband, a bully or a partner, the case in the judiciary is treated as a cold-blooded murder. The warring woman's syndrome in Serbia does not exist, i.e. the court does not take the violence they have suffered as an extenuating circumstance, which means that during the trial, no one asks the woman how she lived, nor does this context be considered, but solely an act of murder and events that were immediately preceded. In traditional society, responsibility has been transferred from a man to a victim's wife, they have been shown infrequently in the media, as alcoholics and adulteresses, however, data like many others we have heard today are worrying. Some studies show that as many as 54% of women in Serbia suffer some domestic violence and what is a frantic data, and according to findings of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, every tenth high school student in Serbia believes that women should be beaten occasionally. My colleague Mihajlovic said that a system of education and education can affect the change of attitudes in young people. The system institutions should react mildly and adequately to the report of violence, not to neglect that they have seen violence and know that it exists. Social services, the police and the D.A.'s office need to react connected, so we don't get cases like the L.A.'s mother. She had to escape first, to save her and the child's life from the husband of the bully, and now the same father's court wants the child back, which my colleague Milicevic publicly condemned yesterday. One of the main objectives of the Women's Parliamentary Network, and today it has been mentioned many times and it has pointed out this goal, and this is a constant fight against violence is something that is more difficult for the Women's Parliamentary Network, but as we have seen today, fellow MPs, the fight for this goal and in thinking that we should work on it constantly. I'm glad that even citizens who listen to today's debate are coming. I would also like to say something about the law, attesting to the Convention on the Protection of Children and the Co-operation of the area of international adoption, which provides a system that will, to the least possible extent, recognise the risk of the abuse of the international adoption institute. With reform processes, for many years a large number of children have been removed from social protection institutions and the primary task of the system of protection is to develop services and services that support the biological family and child and thus prevent the separation of children from family and community. Foreign adoptors are largely tolerated and adopt children with serious health and development problems, or those children for whom fosterers cannot be found among domestic citizens. There is an established opinion on the long adoption procedure and the long wait for adoption, but the adoption process should not be easily understood, so that it does not happen to move on to human trafficking. Human trafficking is, in addition to drug trafficking and arms, the most profitable criminal activity. UNICEF estimates 1.2 million children each year become victims of human trafficking. Although it dominates the belief that only women and children can be victims, the truth is that the victim of trade can be anyone. Children are traded for sexual and labour exploitation, begging, forced marriage, coercion to commit criminal activities, and trade is the most difficult form of human rights violations. Deprivement and limitations are the most drastic of rights to life, dignity, integrity, freedom and security, and sometimes life itself. Human trafficking, especially women and children, is a problem of global proportions and requires special and systematic access to state and society. The ratification of this Convention strengthens security in international adoption procedures, as it takes place in the best interests of the child and respect for the fundamental rights recognised by international law. A system of co-operation between Contracting States is established to ensure respect for these guarantees and to prevent abduction, sale, or trade in children. The SPS parliamentary group will also support the Istanbul Convention and the proposal for a Convention on the Protection of Children and in the field of international adoption, as well as the other two proposals in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24530	The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry and fellow MPs, and I, as most colleagues today, will debate more attention to these two conventions. I think they are very important, but that doesn't mean that we don't appreciate the government's efforts to negotiate two important interstate agreements in the area of social security, important for a certain number of citizens who have done and implemented part of their professional careers in these two countries. As is known, and colleagues have already said in the debate, the Convention on interstate adoption has been in force since 1993 and by now 79 states have ratified, so we are probably 80th, until the Council of Europe Convention against Violence against Women has yet to take effect and our adoption here in parliament we may contribute to this process of its entry into force. But why am I pointing out these facts? I want to stress, normally, the importance of adopting both conventions, but also to say that in the first instance, when it comes to the Convention on the Interstate adoption of Children, we do not need to change anything in our current legislation, especially when it comes to family-law protection of children without parental ageing. I'm saying that we already have this matter regulated by the standards of this convention that we're going to adopt today, but also by the standards of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. But when it comes to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence and Women and Family Violence, the situation is unfortunately quite different, because, despite the adoption of a series of documents, I also think of the National Strategy to improve women's position and improve gender equality, the Action Plan that has been brought forward for its implementation, I also think of the National Strategy to prevent and combat violence against women in the family and partner relations, unfortunately we do not have more serious results in reducing violence against women and domestic violence. There are different data, and we've heard a lot of different data in this debate today. I used, first of all, the data from the social work center's annual report, because there is already one established methodology. This phenomenon has been followed for several years and there are some comparisons, then trends can be seen, and as soon as you can track something, compare it, then you can come up with some measures and fix the situation. According to the 2012 Social Labour Centre's annual report, violence against women and family violence continues to grow, unfortunately. Compared to 2006, when the Family Law began to apply and when we began to follow this phenomenon organized, the increase was three times. In 2012, according to this report, we have 9,325 people who are victims of violence. Although in the first two or three years of applying the Family Law we were able to assume that this growth and so many examples of violence against women and domestic violence are also due to the increased sensitivity to the emergence of violence in society, this law certainly contributed, it can no longer be explained after seven or eight years of law enforcement, only in this way. Unfortunately, I am sure that we have a real increase in violence in our society and what is seen in this 2012 report has grown in all parts of Serbia. It is interesting that only in Belgrade since 2009 in continuity each year, so four years in a row, an increase and violence against women and family violence has fallen. It would be very interesting, because in these reports that I've looked at, these are reports, it's not planned, there's no analysis of whether there's some kind of process going on that we don't know about, whether there are any mechanisms that prevent violence. In any case, it would be interesting to explore and possibly apply in other cities and municipalities where we have a permanent increase in violence. Among the victims of violence, there are most children, about 40.6%. By types of violence is dominated by physical violence 44.3%. From the aspect of gender equality, the highest number of victims is women 68%, elderly women 32.8%. What's really worrying, is that, from these reports, it can be reliably determined that family is the most common place of violence, i.e. in 88,923 cases, we actually have victims of domestic violence. We do not have any data yet for 2013, but according to some data, this dramatic increase in violence against women and domestic violence is taking place. We have a statement from two CIs, from Novi Sad and Leskovec, who in September of the month according to their records estimate that there is an increase in violence and is between 20% and 30%. The causes of this escalation of violence in 2013 have not naturally been investigated, we cannot determine with certainty what is happening, but whether something can be assumed. I think that besides other causes, the increase in violence is certainly due to a new social climate that we are witnessing, dominated by intolerance and aggression. The public scene has been turned into an obscenity reality in which it is allowed. Such a social climate, unfortunately, and some politicians, bringing into political discourse a high degree of aggression and verbal violence, certainly contribute and I urge that such political discourse be given up as soon as possible, because the victims are not just political opponents, but unfortunately the entire social atmosphere. If we add that we are still a traditional, patriarchal society in transition with poorly disguised misogyny, it is not surprising that violence against women is not only seen as a dysfunction, disintegration and disorder of family relationships, but rather as a pattern of behaviour that characterizes authoritarian society. Also, it is not seen that violence against women is the result of discrimination against women and inequality of men and women, and therefore I hope that the adoption of this convention will, at least once again, remind everyone in society, because in the Convention you are explicit and rightly states that achieving de jure and de facto equality between women and men is a key element in preventing violence against women. The Convention also sees violence against women as gender-based violence, that violence against women is one of the key social mechanisms that women are forced to be in a subordinate position to men. What's important, the Convention also speaks of the obligations of the state. How important it is for policies in this area to be coordinated, how much interresor cooperation is needed, the role of the civil sector, the importance of prevention, raising awareness, and already some colleagues have talked about it, and there is no awareness raising without education. By accepting the Convention, I would like to stress this today, we have committed ourselves to one more thing, to include some topics such as equality between women and men of non-stereotype gender roles, mutual respect, non-violent conflict resolution, etc., officially in teaching material adapted to the ability of students at all levels of education, so from pre-school and beyond. Special attention is paid to the Convention and the obligation of the State to provide adequate support for victims of violence, especially children and victims of sexual violence. Some colleagues, especially counterpart Vukcevic, spoke of us setting up a reserve at the Convention for no reason. Namely, if some amendments to criminal legislation have not been made in a timely manner, I can understand that, but I cannot understand that we have put the reserve on Article 30(2), which says it is necessary to provide adequate State compensation to those who have suffered serious physical injuries or those who have been impaired health, to the extent that the extent of the injury is not covered by other sources, such as the perpetrator, insurance, or state, health and social security. I understand this article so that the victim of violence, in case he is not health insurance, has at least the right to the necessary medical services on the cost of the state. I don't see any reason, but I believe that in practice this is what is happening, that we have put a reserve on this position and MPs of the Democratic Party will support the amendment that has been submitted, therefore, by colleagues here in the day of the vote. When it comes to the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of interstate adoption, as I said the issues regulated by this Convention have already been incorporated into our legal system in the area of child protection and interstate adoption. As you know, both our Constitution and family law and the Social Protection Act, when it comes to children without parental ageing, the whole concept of their protection is based on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, i.e. all solutions and valid standards are in the function of achieving the best interests of the child including, above all, the right of the child to grow up in the family environment, because this is the best environment for his healthy development. It is known that the reform processes that last from 2000 to 2001, in particular the system of family and legal protection of children without parental ageing, have gone in the direction of reducing their institutional home protection, with the strengthening of the foster care and adoption institutes. Some results have been achieved, I'd say significant. Today we have a very small number of children in our homes, but apparently this reform process should continue. The foster care has had one expansion, but now is the time to see which direction it should go further. The foster families certainly need any kind of support, but they also need to see if social work centres are too easy to resort to foster care, as a form of child protection without parental ageing, even in cases where children under family law can be adopted. Let us not forget, foster care is not a long - term solution for a child without parental care. So we've had a stalemate in the application of an adoption institute that's been obvious for several years. The number moves when it comes to the adoption of domestic citizens, between 100 and 110, and that is worrying. I believe that something will be done in the next period of time on that plan. On the other hand, when it comes to children with disabilities in development without parental ageing, we have a very slow process of their deinstitutionalisation and a very difficult development of even foster care, so-called specialized foster care, and unfortunately adoption goes very hard, because we do not have domestic adoptors when it comes to children with developmental disorders. We can say that essentially this convention, which we are about to adopt, refers to these children, because those 10, 11 adoptions, as far as we have on the annual level, are children with developmental disturbances for which there are no domestic adoptors, although, by law, at least a year, they've been searching for domestic adoptors. So that's one area where there's still a lot of work to be done. Finally, I want to say that our parliamentary club will vote in favour of social security agreements with Luxembourg and Canada, because we consider it of the greatest interest to our citizens, which are part of their working careers checked in these countries. This agreement guarantees their rights, and that is when it comes to Canada in the area of pension-inhabited insurance, but when it comes to Luxembourg, it is the rights in the field of health insurance, insurance in the case of work injuries, occupational diseases, unemployment, child protection and motherhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24532	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vesna Stepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24533	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, members of the government, esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament, MPs, among other things in this joint search today, are discussing the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the area of international adoption, which our country should ratify. In this context, it would refer to the adoption institute as a very important measure of the protection and care of children who do not have their biological family or live in conditions of unworthy children. The adoption of children is an act of noble character. The adoptors are big-hearted people, and the adoption institute is such that it deserves affirmation and support in society, in the broadest sense. A number of subtle processes, which have been established, have been established by law and are implemented institutionally, with the support and assistance of professional services. For a number of people to adopt is the only way to achieve as parents, and for a certain number of abandoned children, the only way to acquire their family and be protected in it. By adopting a child, he assumes the name and all other rights, as the biological child of his new parents, and he can fully build up a sense of belonging and association with them. The convention that we are talking about is establishing a system of co-operation between authorities in countries of origin and countries of reception, which provides conditions for applying child's best interests standards and implementing to the least extent of the risk, from abuse in the process of international adoption. In order for the adoption process itself to be successful, it is necessary to fully implement this Convention, which should ensure greater security, predictability and transparency for all participants in the adoption process, including potential adoptors. In this way, security in the adoption process and the establishment of a better security measure, which would prevent the kidnapping, sale and trafficking of children for adoption. In addition to foster and domestic adoption, international adoption is current and can be the protection of children without biological families, but also adequate conditions for the life and ratification of this Convention and in Serbia would allow better conditions for the growth and development of these children. In the Republic of Serbia, there is a major problem with housing and adopting Roma children and children with developmental disorders. There are not enough foster families who are ready and trained to raise such children, and there are no interested adoptors. At the same time, a complex adoption procedure should protect children, especially at the international adoption institute, in order not to repeat a scenario like Russia, Romania, Africa. We need to be more careful not to repeat the example from Russia when American families adopted more than 45,000 children since 1999, where there were more children with special needs, where more deaths have occurred due to the neglect of adoptors. Experiences in the Republic of Serbia say that potential adoptors first opt for younger children, which are children aged three to six years and are not overly tolerated in terms of the health, development and national characteristics of a minor child they would like to adopt. According to data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there is an increase in the number of adopted children between 2006 and 2008, while the number is falling in the period from 2008 to 2012. In 2008, 149 children were adopted, while in 2012 it was reduced to 83 children. On the other hand, this data paints both the image and the inside. So, according to the Centre for Social Labour, Vladimirs, there was no adoption in the territory of the Vladimirci Municipality until 2012, and in 2012, there were three, while for now, there were no adoptions. The number of foster parents is currently 25. Also, international adoption is not often in the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is still a country from which children are adopted, not a country whose citizens show interest in adopting children from other countries. Unlike Serbian adoptors, foreigners mostly from the United States have more understanding and patience to accept such children. So more often they adopt children of Roma nationality, older children and children with disabilities. That is why I think it is important for Serbia to develop such a relationship with the children that each of them would grow up in the country and culture in which it was born. That's why we have to fight to create such a system of values. In addition to all civilizational changes, families have also survived as a natural and fundamental community in society. In modern times, the harmony of a woman and a man's private and professional life is very important for the stability of society. They need equal care and responsibility for the family. She has a very important role to play in the importance of man. Growing up in a normal and healthy family means a lot. It's the right of every child to grow up in a family that loves him, accepts him, and comes out to meet his needs. Such a child raised in the family environment, in the atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding through education and loneliness, will be useful to himself and society. For this reason, I believe it is extremely important that this Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption be ratified in order to have clear rules and mechanisms in the protection and adoption of children, in order to prevent possible abuse and child abuse. The SPS parliamentary group will support the above-mentioned convention and a set of legislative proposals in the voting day. Also, as a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network, I will support the bill on preventing settlements against women and domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24534	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, Mr. Minister, I would like to join Mrs. Plassic's remarks, which urged you to participate a little more actively in what the MPs are saying and to show a little more attention. In my presentation, I will refer only to the Convention on the Protection of Children in Co-operation in the field of international adoption, because I believe that in this set it is one of the most important issues, in addition to the other convention on which we will vote. In fact, international adoption of children in the second half of the last century began to develop as a legal institution. In the 1970s, the number of such adoptions has increased dramatically, and in the early 1980s it became evident that international adoption follows a number of complex legal problems and that the lack of domestic and international legal instruments points to the need for a more spectacular approach. For these reasons, as repeatedly repeated here on May 29, 1993, under the auspices of the UN International Private Law Conference, the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the area of international adoption was adopted. In 1989, it added particular importance to the provisions of Article 21, specifying the broad formulation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in relation to the measures of protection and the rules of procedure to which they are bound, with the unfavourable obligation of the State of origin and the state of reception, to respect the rights of the child, to respect the principles of the best interests of the child, to have their own cultural personality, which is expressed in family life and relevant domestic law. By introducing clear procedures, the Convention recognises and recognises the overwhelming importance of raising children in the family environment, as a condition for its happy and healthy development, as well as the ban on gaining financial profits. I asked you, Mr. Minister, to follow what the MPs say. The Convention establishes a system of co-operation between the authorities in the countries of origin of the child and the country of child-reception, which leads to the least possible risk of abuse in the process of international adoption. So far, child care without parental ageing in the Republic of Serbia has been achieved by a second family that can be related or foster, then by adopting or setting up a social protection facility. In Serbia, around 4,000 children are currently housed in foster families or institutions, which is a huge number. From a human point of view, housing of children in a social protection facility is the ultimate measure of care. It is necessary to run an intensive campaign to increase the number of foster families and improve their structure. Also, more popularising adoption of children without parental ageing is also needed, as is the willingness to adopt children with developmental disorders, handicaps and children of Roma nationality. So far, the readiness of Serbian citizens to adopt children from other countries has been minimal. The data that was normally brought here is that from 2006 to 2010 47 children were adopted. Otherwise, when foreign citizens want to adopt a child from the Republic of Serbia, a certain procedure that is regulated by Article 103 must be respected. A family law that says, I will quote it, although I think our MP also quoted it as saying: "A foreign citizen can adopt a child on condition that no adoptors can be found among domestic citizens and that the minister responsible for family protection agrees with adoption. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This is normally Article 103(1). "It will otherwise be considered that fosterers cannot be found among domestic citizens if more than one year has passed since the date of the entry of data on the future adoptor into the unique personal adoption register. “, ” representing Article 103(2). I read this just for the citizens of Serbia to be familiar with the problem. This law, however, established an exception to the intended rule, in the sense of the minister responsible for family protection, if there are particularly justified reasons, and before the expiry of this deadline may allow the adoption of a foreign citizen, as regulated by Article 103(3). The ratification of the Convention on adoption will bring into line the legislative regulations of the Republic of Serbia and the states signatories of the Convention, i.e. the conditions for applying the standards of best interests of the child and bringing to the greatest possible extent of the risk of abuse in the process of international adoption, such as kidnapping, sale, child trafficking and economic exploitation. So far, the convention has been ratified by 79 countries, including all countries in our environment, most of the EU countries, China, the Russian Federation and the United States. Finally, I note that all the legal members of this Convention are in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the work relating to the rights of the child, the enjoyment of human rights, the suitability of their age and mental maturity, as well as in Article 64, which prescribes that children's rights are governed by law and guarantee a child a number of individual rights, such as the right to personal name, entry into the birth certificate, the right to learn its origin, the right to preserve their identity, protection against mental, physical, economic and any other abuses and abuses. Article 64(5) The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that children's rights and their protection are regulated by law. Article 65 of our Constitution also provides for special protection for families, mothers of single parents, and in this sense special protection is guaranteed for children who are not cared for by parents and children who are disturbed by mental and physical development, as well as protection of children from child labour, that is a ban on children under 15 years of age, a ban on working on jobs that are harmful to the morals of children and their health. Control of compliance with the legal requirements, both ours and the Convention, for the interstate adoption of a concrete child, shall be carried out by the Ministry of Family Protection, which shall, on the basis of the opinion of the expert ministry team, grant the Minister of Family Protection the permission to adopt the child by foreign citizens. I should not mention that the SNS parliamentary group will vote on this civilization's contribution in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24536	The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24537	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within this item of the agenda, it is the confirmation of four conventions each of which is important for a particular group of citizens of Serbia. Yet, the Council of Europe Convention prevents and combats violence against women and domestic violence, so-called The Istanbul Convention, directly or indirectly, concerns each of us, directly or indirectly touches all citizens of Serbia. For this reason, and also as co-ordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network, in my discussion, I will focus on the draft law confirming this Convention. At the very beginning, I am pleased to point out that all members of the Women's Parliamentary Network from all parties have declared that they will support the adoption of this law, as well as the other three laws within this item of the agenda. This is proof that the Women's Parliamentary Network has come to life and is achieving its goal – a gathering of MPs from all parties on issues related to women and family, which includes fighting violence. The discussion has already said a lot about the roots of the creation and the presence of violence in our society, about the content of that convention. So now I'm just going to focus on some important aspects of me. First of all, I would like to point out that the Convention stipulates that foreign signatories commit themselves to raising public awareness of the various forms and aspects of violence, their consequences and the need to involve all competent actors in their prevention, namely national, regional and local assemblies and administration bodies, state institutions for the protection of human rights and civil society. Here I stress the importance of civil society in Serbia as the first player to fight violence by motivateing victims of violence and witnesses to talk about violence, to make violence visible in society and to awaken society's sensitivity to this problem. The second thing I want to point out is that the Convention puts an accent on the education of preventive intervention and adequate work with the perpetrators of violence, to change their behavior and become unviolent and not repeat criminal acts and violent behavior at all. In this context, and about the importance of this aspect of civil society that has helped violence in Serbia become visible, I want to say that since 1998 I have been a member of the NGO of the Women's Rights Centre in Vrsac, which was the first in Vojvodina to have an SOS phone for victims of violence. As a lawyer, I've been providing victims of violence with legal aid. I don't think anyone who wasn't involved in the work with victims of violence can be aware of how difficult it was at the beginning of working on these problems, especially in the late 1990s and early 20s, to free victims of violence and witnesses from talking about this violence and to overcome stereotypes in our society, that they may be guilty of what hit them, that it's a shame to talk about it and so on. The second thing I want to point out is that the convention puts an emphasis on education, as I have already said, the perpetrator of violence. This is important because we must not allow the situation that arises when amnested perpetrators of acts of violence against women and children, without educational work with them, to adopt non-violent behavior and thus prevent them from repeating crimes, so there were returnees who committed even more serious crimes after amnesty and even murder. Furthermore, the Convention also stresses that, with due respect for freedom of expression and its independence, it is necessary to encourage the private sector, the sector for information and communication technologies and means of public information for participation in the development and implementation of a policy to prevent violence against women and families and to respect women and family dignity. That means most of our media has to change their relationship to this subject. When there's violence, they shouldn't write in a sensational way with bomb titles that every normal man gets angry with, and the dignity of the victim collapses. It is now present in our media and examples of such titles have already been presented by counterpart Tripic, so I would not like to repeat them. To be honest and not to be fooled, signing and confirming the Council of Europe Convention is only one step in countering violence in our society. We have a lot of work to do and a lot of activity to do. We need to work on harmonising laws and sublegal acts, on changing and supplementing education programs in educational institutions to develop awareness of non-violent behavior. This is especially important because in our educated institutions, peer violence is very present, and it creates conditions for the development of young people into bullies further. Then, it should also be done to activate all relevant factors and the National Assembly and the Regional Assembly and local parliaments and administration bodies at all levels, then, state institutions for the protection of human rights and civil society and to establish their mutual co-operation to prevent violence against women and families. It must also be done to provide adequate support and to protect victims and witnesses of violence, then to apply the measure of change of consciousness to the perpetrator of criminal acts. One of the preconditions is to ensure greater participation of women in all decision-making and setting conditions for empowerment and economic independence of women. Since all the values that are protected by this Convention and the values for which the DS stands, MPs of the DS Group will support the adoption of a law confirming both this Convention and the other three laws of this agenda. If we work intensively, it will take three to five years to achieve the first visible results of reducing violence in our society. That's why we have to start working right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24538	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Katica Vijuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24539	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is now up to the proposal for a bill to confirm the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, which was adopted in Istanbul on 11 May 2012 and which is applied in times of peace, as well as in situations of armed war. Violence is the negation of all human values and the fact that our society cannot close its eyes. The Member States of the Council of Europe and other signatories of this Convention shall, in full commitment, be obliged to access the national implementation of the Convention and to develop gender-sensitive policies and to cooperate with NGOs and civil society. Work is required to prevent violence against women and domestic violence, protection measures and support with the formation of safe houses, SOS phones and specialised support conditions with particular emphasis on children victims of this violence and children as witnesses to this violence. The parties that have signed the Convention shall, in particular, undertake to indicate and form several official bodies that will co-ordinate data collection, analyse and publish results, and also have to have direct communication with relevant bodies and other members. It is also necessary to propagate regularly at all levels, carry out campaigns or public raising programmes on various manifestations of all types of violence covered by the Convention, their consequences for children and the need to prevent such violence from co-operation with state institutions for human rights and bodies for equality, civil society and NGOs, especially women. The violence that seems to appear to family members has a specific characteristic of the violence committed outside the family. Violence in the family is always a misuse of power, control of family members who have less power or have less resources. In most societies, especially in traditional and patriarchal communities, men have significantly more power, not only physical, but economic and social. The Council of Europe Convention on the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence defines domestic violence as any act of physical, sexual, psychological and economic violence that occurs within the family or household or any other partner, or intimate relationship, whether the bully shares or does not share the same housing unit with the victim. Family law defines domestic violence as a behavior that endangers one family member’s physical integrity, mental state, or tranquility of another family member. The criminal law determines that the crime in the family is committed by anyone who, by applying violence, threatens to attack life or the body with impertinent or reckless behavior, endangers the tranquillity, physical integrity, or the social condition of a member of his family. In 2005, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a general protocol in which domestic violence implies abuse of power, trust or dependence within the family, which threatens the survival, security and well-being of another member or family member. It involves various forms of abuse such as violence in partnership, abuse and neglect of elderly or other addicts, child abuse and child abuse, parent abuse and presence and exposure to violence against other family members. Modern knowledge confirms that exposure to physical, sexual, or psychological abuse and violence between parents or other family members has a serious impact on children and other particularly sensitive family members. Such exposure causes trauma and negatively affects the development of the child and the safety and position of other particularly vulnerable family members such as persons with disabilities, older family members, people with severe health and development problems. Based on reports from all social work centres in the Republic, the number of cases recorded in the family is escalating. For example, in 2006, there were 441, and in 2011, 8,481 reported victims of domestic violence in the Republic of Serbia. However, this increase does not have to be the result of some real increase in the number of violence cases compared to the previous period. This increase is primarily the result of the general and professional public's reaction to this phenomenon. Citizens, experts working in various systems and victims of violence have become significantly sensitive to this phenomenon. They don't see her as someone's personal thing. In the present time, violence against women and domestic violence is not denied, minimized and abnormal, and for these reasons more often reported and reacted to it. What can be worrying, in any case, is an increase in the extremely severe forms of domestic violence that has resulted in drastic injury and the fatal outcome of the victim. Any victim of domestic or female violence in partner relations has the right to be protected, to stop violence immediately, and to protect against domestic violence under the provisions of Family Law against the violent enterprise and civil-law measures. In the end, the question is, why does a woman stay with a bully? Because no one supports her, because no one believes her, because others are looking for guilt in her, because legal procedures take too long, because she has fear of a bully, because she doesn't have enough income, because she has nowhere to go, because she has children, because she's afraid that he's going to take the kids, because she's ashamed of what people are going to think, because she's emotionally bound to a partner, because she cares about a bully, because she believes she'll get better. In order to have a better insight into this issue and better co-operation with the members of the members of this convention, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24540	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24541	Dear Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, co-workers and colleagues, I will talk about a bill confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. The adoption of this law is expected, given that the Convention platform was adopted at the Assembly on 1 April 2012, and on 4 April the same year was signed with the Council of Europe, so that the adoption of this law is only a logical trail of events and necessary steps towards the approximation and integration of our laws with the European one. This is the acceptance of the EU's principle policy in the fight against all forms of discrimination and violence with particular emphasis on violence against women and children, as well as on all forms of domestic violence. Over time, it is necessary to agree unconditionally with the objectives of the Convention relating above all to the protection of women and families from all types of violence, the adoption of measures, regulations and laws that will allow the realization of prevention, early detection, processing and punishment of perpetrators of violence. In this way, we make a significant contribution to combating discrimination, gender equality, and we also promote gender equality, including activities to empower and encourage women in their efforts to play an active and responsible role in the community in the framework of the National Strategy on this matter. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, in detail systematically and explicitly in all segments of the adopted Platform, defines all the elements of violence, the attitudes of the community towards them, as well as the legal measures against the perpetrators of violence and discrimination, and refers to the prevention of women and victims of domestic violence to report violence, detection, prosecution and eventual sanctioning of perpetrators, through parallel protection of victims of violence in all segments, from legal, and this would be from the adoption of adequate laws, through economic, seeking intrinsic harm, as well as protection of victims for the construction of safe houses. In only one member, the convention rather shyly states that the victims of violence may also be men, which marginalises the growing presence of problems with male sex, men, as victims of domestic violence. Years ago, men are increasingly victims of domestic violence, as data from the MUP, social security centres and psychiatric institutions say both psychologically and physically. This upcoming trend of a new kind of violence should not be ignored in the future. The concern has been justified that such a minimisation of male participation as victims of violence could encourage individual organised groups of women to operate in quite other extremes. Also, there are not enough transparent opportunities for a detailed victim-of-vitemological review of violence, namely how much and how many victims themselves are provoking violence and activity, what is its responsibility, and especially in marriage communities where the possibilities of various social, psychological and sexual manipulations of women against men are very present and rarely abused, long before the final result of this kind of provocation, or physical violence in the family. This also requires the need for a serious future approach to this problem, in relation to gender, even the adoption of laws on the protection of men. Although men are physically stronger than women, women are also often psychologically and verbally, manipulatively, socially and economically dominantly than men, equating the power of their tools in conflict with the results of injury and violence. Ignoring this fact would be the beginning of a new discrimination, but now towards men, it is completely contrary to EU principles on gender equality. As the Convention is ultimate, since it does not allow any comments, amendments to the law, except in Articles 30, 41, 55, 58 and 59 concerning a number of marginal and technical issues, I believe that this law is of the utmost quality and that it should be accepted, especially as it is another step towards the approximation of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24542	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we go... (Milica Vojić Markovic, from the post: I don't know if fellow MPs have heard what the previous colleague said? Please sign in again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24543	I've listened very carefully, I wish you'd heard Mr. Chairman, ask your colleague to stick to the fact here, the ladies present have probably heard that we are manipulative and sexually manipulative, so I somehow found it appropriate to simply or clarify what this is about or see if the Rules of Procedure has been injured. This is really a threat to the dignity of all of us here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24545	I thank the chairman. I have made it very clear that justifiable concern, that such minimisation of male participation as victims of violence may be encouraging, perhaps you haven't listened since the beginning, to some organized delinquent group of women for action in quite other extremes. That's one thing. The second thing, not to mention the colleagues who are here, is only a contribution to the finding that we are fighting for gender equality, and I used the data, and I listed it from the Ministry of Social Protection and Psychological Institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-17-0.u24546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're finishing work today. We will continue on Tuesday, October 22nd at 10:00 p.m.
