ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26728	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the government, above all, the Ministry of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, and in one part, the issue will probably also rest on the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. The first city in the Republic of Serbia, which was bombed by the NATO Alliance on 24 March 1999, was the town of Sombor. Since then, no pyrotechnic reconnaissances and a tour of the runway have been activated or detached and NATO bombs were then found not to be removed on September 1st 2001. Since once upon a time this recruiting centre was in service of the JNA Army and there were over 10,000 soldiers, there is a huge complex of size somewhere up to 1,000 hectares. It is interesting, perhaps, for potential foreign investors, and it is one locality, when it is intended, Sombor himself won the importance of that locality. The question is - when will the Republic of Serbia's army continue to carry out the activities that were undertaken and interrupted in 2001 and when will this be put into effect? In addition, I want to ask some more questions concerning military property, and they are also on Sombora territory, and I believe that it is a similar situation in other cities of the Republic of Serbia, which is that there is a huge military property that is not in operation today, that a large number of these objects are also under the protection of cultural monuments and that it is impossible to maintain them, or enter them, that they are collapsing today, that they have no intention, and that these objects are being sold and in such a way that some financial resources for the military and for the budget of the Republic of Serbia are clearly not real and not possible at this time. The question is: is there any possibility of reviewing such a decision to make the House of the Army of Yugoslavia, or today's Army of Serbia, owned by the Ministry of Finance and the Army somewhere available to local self-government and thus stop laying down mice, rats, bats and the like, since all these facilities are located in the city center? In addition, there is also a large facility located in the very environment of the Somborian hospital, which is regional, where there is a military infirmary and which would be able to make it possible to make it available by putting into service a very significant service for citizens of the West-Baba County. Also, there are some other sites where local self-governments, as decided in the 2005 master plan, have sent certain memos to make the property available. However, due to procedures and wrong, unrealistic estimates by the finance ministry, we are in a situation that this property cannot be detained for purposes. I think that the Ministry of Defence in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance should make one analysis, to look at the possibilities of these assets, primarily by putting local self-government and what it is not able to sell, not to turn it into a sanitary problem, but to function as a local population and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26729	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26730	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask the Minister of Health. It is known that since 1 January 2014, health homes will move to local self-government, therefore, to the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities. I would also like to ask whether the Minister of Health, or the Ministry of Health, will review perhaps the human plans that they have brought for the homes of health and introduce new criteria for the organisation and schedule of staff? In fact, the criteria should not only be established according to the number of inhabitants, but should they also be according to the resolution of the territory, or the area, according to the number of objects that exist on the territory and municipalities or according to the number of visitors, the number of interventions, the number of children in recreational classes? I also ask the question, does Minister Djukic Dejanovic have in mind that certain municipalities are characteristic of their personality, so such as municipalities where tourism is a dominant economic activity, where a large number of visitors come during the year, so that the basic criterion cannot be the number of inhabitants, but certainly also the number of visitors must be taken into account? Does the minister know that it is necessary to provide medical services not only for permanent citizens, but also, for example, in the territory of Zlatibor, for more than 300,000 visitors during the year? I ask the question why some municipalities have the number of doctors over the number defined by the human resources plan, and some municipalities don't? Also, I want the Ministry of Health to answer if it is possible to provide an internalist specifically for the Municipality of Chatetin, although it does not meet the condition of 20,000 inhabitants, as defined by the regulation? This intern is currently working at the House of Health in Cheetah. He's been working for 20 years, while providing specialization for another intern, so I just don't know where all these people are going, so these two men are going to get a job if the Ministry hasn't approved? Is it possible that, on the basis of the personality of individual municipalities, a number of drivers in emergency emergency care are provided so that it doesn't happen like a few days ago that a woman who had medical problems can't get emergency care and care because one driver is on an intervention, and the other has to drive citizens who need to get dialysis? The health ministry has already heard that on the basis of the number of children on the recreational continue to provide another pediatrician in the territory of the Čajetin municipality for the House of Health, which covers the very home of health, but we certainly believe that an intern would be of great importance not only to the citizens, but certainly to all visitors of Zlatibor, so that it could be obtained, I repeat, adequate health care. Local self-government and the specific local self-government of the Čajetina municipality provided their own facilities for sanitary vehicles, therefore, for emergency vehicles, for appliances, for materials, for renovation of home health, for renovation of rural hospitals. It will only be legalised from January 1st. Even the medical staff at the Tourist Centre Zlatibor health center could not provide it, but the local self-government only did it for reasons, of course, that citizens and all visitors do not lose adequate and urgent healthcare because the health center is not able because it is not within the law. So, I appeal to the Ministry of Health to revise, by the end of the year, the staff plan for individual, first of all, tourist municipalities that have a large number of visitors, so that all citizens get adequate health care, because it is known, of course, that local self-governments are not able to do so with exhausted budgets, and besides, with the Law on the maximum number of employees in local self-government to receive new workers, so that health homes can start as soon as possible under local self-government's jurisdiction, I urge the Ministry of Health to respond to these questions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26731	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26732	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to take advantage of today's presence of Madam Minister to ask how it is possible that in the past few months there is almost constant smell in Karaburma, on the mouth, Mirieva, and that no one comes out with any notice of where that smell comes from, how long will it take, what does it take to rescind such a thing? I am almost daily getting calls from people, although I am not from Belgrade, who are urging at least to ask the parliamentary question whether it is the inspection services, their unhappiness or something else. I don't think it's the Ministry's problem, but I'm asking the Ministry a question, because I believe it will give me the easiest and fastest answer. I would like to take the opportunity to commend your work and say that our parliamentary group fully supports what you are doing and your desire to finally introduce order into the area that you are leading as minister. My second question is I don't know exactly who I could ask from the ministers, but since Mr Dacic is prime minister, I would ask him the question, although of course I don't consider him responsible for this situation in the state. It almost doesn't pass a day that in the media we don't have a story about rape or domestic violence. These have almost become daily topics, and it is just amazing how many of these topics in the second plan have suppressed some of the affirmative and positive things that are happening in this country. It's a horrifying way that mostly the male world deals with women, regardless of whether it's domestic violence, whether it's some other kind of harassment and rape. I personally believe that we, as MPs, have not made much of a contribution to the protection of women. Some of us even had the opportunity, or have shown how this House treats women, and I think it's in any case not just anti-reglames, but also direct support for everything that's going on on the street. We have a situation where rape victims tend to find it very difficult to report rape to the police. There are even some absurd problems, such as that 5,000 dinars have to pay a checkup to prove that they have been raped to some of the problems concerning the intimidation of these people and their fear that they are simply not allowed to address anyone, and especially the police, unfortunately, who they believe is mainly corrupt and will not respond positively to their appeals. I think this may be the best indicator and example of why Serbia should join the EU, because we do not have enough laws to settle this area. We need a complete change in the system of values, a system of values that we need to introduce in which a woman will be a partner to a man and someone who is respected, not just someone who needs to take care of family, to be a housewife. After all, as one of the rapists said, there is one opinion among the people that a woman should be slapped and beaten from time to time, especially if she resists. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. It doesn't choose a nation. I'm not talking about any nation in particular. It is, unfortunately, an opinion that has been going on for many years and exists in our people. What does it take to finally introduce order? What is it necessary for the law that exists, which we MPs have voted, which is good, to be implemented, to finally have a more effective state, at least when it comes to such serious crimes against women in our society? I must say once again that several MPs have appealed that it is necessary to have a database when it comes to rapists. As far as I know, there's still no such thing as that database. I think this is one of the most important things, especially if we know that Serbia has a problem with birth, that we have been treating women for years as things. I want to use this time of mine to address all MPs and all those who have some power and influence in their own hands to try to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26733	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26734	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd ask the Government, and I'd ask the Minister of Energy what's going on with the South Star? What is this non-transparent arrangement, a negotiation? What is this theme of one time at such a serious meeting, where the very top of the Serbian state and the director of a foreign state company were found? So these are serious things, especially that this meeting was agreed and justified after all that was happening in Russia, when the President of the Republic came out with the view that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing something that he disagrees with, and everything about this oil-gas arrangement with the Russian state. So, this is most unusual when the President of the Republic comes out of your jurisdiction and calls both the prime minister and all members of the government on the interest of a foreign state, in this case Serbia. What's this about? Has Serbia become a colony of a foreign state or worse, has it become a colony of a foreign state company? It's serious stuff. Why? In 2007, when this oil deal was being prepared, 50% of the Serbian budget was being filled from the oil economy. So it's quite clear to us that this oil deal is in fact political nature and energy nature, and it's certainly about our management, therefore, of Serbian finances, of financial flows. This is a serious matter if you allow the president of a foreign state company to come to you and ask you very, how can I say, very offensive questions why "Srbigas" does not cooperate enough with NIS? That "Srbigas" should not change, there is no reorganisation although it has been announced, Madam Minister, that it is necessary for this "Srbigas" to be reformed in terms of some kind of reorganisation, and it will not be according to the director of a foreign state company until the end of business on the South Stream. So, does Serbia condition itself with this Southern period? Is Serbia in this case in the position of a colonial hostage, therefore, these are all issues when the South Stream is mentioned. Will the construction of the South Stream really begin by the end of this month or will it be just another ceremony, and essentially this construction will begin maybe in a few months, in a year or maybe never? There's talk of a great economic interest. What is Serbia's economic interest if, over the next 20 years, it will repay the credit it is taking to just participate in the construction of that South Stream, with the company's headquarters in whose jurisdiction is the construction of that South Stream abroad, and Serbia has no 50% ownership participation but 49%? These are all very worrying facts and I would really ask the question – whether this government has the capacity, has the political will to turn this whole story, and in fact this whole oil-based arrangement into the interest of Serbia or will it remain in this sense devastating and very harmful to Serbia's interests as a state and its economy?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26735	The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26736	Dear Chairman, dear fellow MPs, I would like to refer my question to the Finance Minister Mr Lazar Krstic and the Minister of Culture Mr Ivan Tasovac. During my brief stay in the congregation bench, I was under the impression that cultural topics were not a priority, but they were not well - known. I think it's a shame, because I am convinced that the solution to many vital systemic problems in the field of culture is, in fact, easily solved with a little goodwill and a lot of practical spirit. This will be the first in a series of parliamentary issues related to this area, in which despite claims by some cultural workers from the previous government, common sense is far more lacking than money. The cultural policy of the SPS is based on supporting direct producers of cultural artistic goods, much more than producers of views, conclusions and opinions on culture, such as, for example, the National Cultural Council. In my question it is precisely a large group of artists in Serbia who make up most of these direct producers of art and culture, which are free artists. Free artists who once had cultural elite status in our country have been turned into a social category, with the city of Belgrade and local self-government making contributions to a health and pension fund on the lowest possible basis. This situation dates back to 2002, when someone smart remembered that free artists should go to market. In doing so, it is forgotten that the market does not exist. That during the savage and unfair privatisation of 400 cinemas in Serbia there are 100, that all homes of culture, galleries, concert halls are closed. Even so, many of the members of this once cultural elite are satisfied at least that they can give their families a minimum of health care, knowing that after retirement they are waiting for extremely difficult times on the edge of existence. During the previous decade, however, the delay in meeting these obligations by Belgrade authorities and local self-government has reached such a stage that almost all independent artists today are burdened with the huge interest that the tax administration charges them and forces them to settle themselves, despite the fact that for these interest artists do not bear any responsibility. So you'll admit the situation is on the verge of absurdity. The situation on the ground is today. Hundreds of free artists in Serbia cannot verify health books. Over a hundred of them are unable to even claim their minimum pension. In this regard, I ask the esteemed ministers – when the lagging contributions for health and social security will be paid and will the state participate in this, since local self-government is not up-to-date in this regard? And whether or not it will increase the basis for these contributions to improve the status of top artists in our country. In art creation, the most important quality an artist must possess is courage. Independent artists are the very category of brave people who have decided that at a time when the culture of taking away is in front of the universal primitiveization of society, to crush everything that is good, humane and beautiful, they take matters into their own hands and try to earn their own piece of bread. Many of them could have been employed in the institutions of culture and providing regular salaries, while weighing elsewhere, but they didn't. They decided to fight for their place under the sun for their artistic integrity and their creation. In line with this question that appeals to an effective solution to this burning problem that is affecting free artists, I urge that the possibility be opened for a fair system solution to the status of free artists be opened. Gentlemen, thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26737	The word has been made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26738	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question today to the Government is very brief, but it is vital for our fellow citizens on KIM. It says whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken all necessary measures through the representatives of the International Community to ensure that the re-election in northern Mitrovica is safely under way this month 17? Namely, has EULEX, UNMIK, the OSCE taken the necessary steps to ensure that the re-election in northern Mitrovica is the safest one? I would take this opportunity to invite all of our fellow citizens in northern Kosovo Mitrovica on behalf of the SNS National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to attend the re-elections of the 17th this month, as these choices are vital to their further survival at KIM. Only going out to the 17th elections this month ensure that a representative of the majority community, the Serb community, is the mayor of northern Mitrovica. Only such an election outcome ensures that all authorities of Serb municipalities are formed in northern Mitrovica. Otherwise, everything would be put under question. I would take this opportunity to invite all my countrymen to KIM on behalf of the SNS MPs' club, all of our citizens living in KIM today, to go out in the largest number in KIM on December 1st, as it is exclusively in their interest and not to fall for the provocations, threats and blackmail they are and how they are present today at KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26739	Since there are no more authorised representatives on matters, let's move on. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Stefana Miladanovic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Olgica Batic and Dubravka Filipovski. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representative of the motions of Dr. Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, and Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, I have called for the presence of Dejan Novaković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, Stevan Nikcevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, Dusan Protic and Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, Petar Stanojević and Dejan Trifunović, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, Zoran Ibrović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, Snežana Ristić, Head of the Department of the Department of Oil and Gas in the Ministry of Energy, Development of Energy, Development and Protection and Protection of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of theRepublic , the Republic of theRepublic , theRepublic , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofSlovenia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofSlovenia , the Republic ofSlovenia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofSlovenia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republicof In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint review of the proposals for the agenda under points 8, 9, 24 and 25, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that under Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the constituency groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of national affairs of members of the parliamentary groups, and you have obtained the material in addition. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on Stock Reserves; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Development of Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Expansion; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation on Strategic Economic Co-operation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No 2 to the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first point we're going to talk about here today concerns the Law on Stock Reserves, the system law in this area that practically begins and opens up a space for the essential reform of Serbia's commodity reserve system. The fact is that we have a law that was passed back in 1992 on which the stock reserves work, enough is the motive to change this legal solution. We have a law that survived practically three or four states, a law with many shortcomings, so the Stock Reserve Directorate practically worked harder on the government's conclusions than it had a foothold in legal solutions and provisions of this law. Also, the fact is that we had to comply with the standards and guidelines of the World Trade Organisation and the EU. Finally, we had to have some new solutions to make the system of commodity reserves more efficient, more responsible and rational than it has ever been and how the law provided a basis for it. Therefore, we appreciate that the adoption of this law will largely mark the important reform of this entire system, thus allowing the stock reserves to be managed in a far more efficient way than it was, and thus also the state property aimed at managing the Stock Reserve Directorate. Also, for the first time in this legislative proposal, we are introducing a system of mandatory oil reserves and oil derivatives, which is something that Minister Mihajlovic will talk about more, and practically this legislative proposal has its two separate works. One concerns stock reserves, the other mandatory oil reserves and oil derivatives. What they have in common is that the Directorate will operate on both of these systems. So let me just briefly say a few newspapers concerning this section that is related to the stock reserves. So far, we have had two situations that led to the intervention of goods from the stock reserves. It was a state of emergency and a state of war, and in a situation of market disturbance. Now we're introducing a third situation when it's intervened with goods from stock reserves, which are so-called. emergency situations, i.e. natural disasters, technical and technological accidents which may also be a cause of disturbance in the provision of basic life supplies. This is also very precise in this legislative proposal. Because of the alignment with the World Trade Organisation guidelines, we have cited this time the kind of goods, the structure of the goods that are subject to the stock reserves. I said the paper is a mandatory reserve of oil and oil derivatives. The newspapers in this commodity structure are also some equipment and goods for the purposes of mail, telecommunications and railways, which was not again contained in the current, or old Stock Reserve Act. The third very important thing is the way in which goods reserves are operated and managed, and this law accurately defines all phases, i.e. procedures in the management of goods from commodity reserves. Therefore, from the stage of supplying goods, storage, storage, lending, refurbishment of goods from commodity reserves, subletting for certain immovable properties which the stock reserves do not contain. Each of these procedures is precisely defined in this legislative proposal. So are the obligations that the warehousers have, which is important from the point of view of some of the negative experiences we've had in the past, some of the crimes that have been committed because of the abuse of goods and goods reserves. It seems that some have stored the goods and received significant financial resources from the state to rent these rooms, and in the end it turns out that these goods are missing, which was the obligation of those who stored them. Now the obligations are clearly indicated. Surveillance has been indicated, which is also a newspaper compared to the previous law. So the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Trade through market and agricultural inspection, and then the Ministry of Energy in the part concerning mandatory oil reserves, and the Ministry of Finance will have control over the implementation of the provisions of this law. Infringements for commercial offences which appear to be due to non-compliance with the provisions of this law have also been provided for. A protective measure of the ban on operation has been introduced, i.e. work from six months to three years. One transparent way was done the entire system of stock reserves in both parts. The full application of the provisions of this law will require the adoption of nine sublaws. Six sublegal acts will be necessary within six months. One sublegal act must be adopted by 1 November and two sublaws in that part concerning oil and oil derivatives will be necessary within the next ten months. I expect, given that it is an extremely important law that we are going through the debate, and then amendments get the opportunity to fix this legal text, given the importance of the topic we are discussing through this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26741	The word has a minister, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26742	Dear MPs, this is the system law, the Stock Reserve Act, in the section concerning mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives, and I believe that we will speak in more detail through the debate. We all know that oil is one of the most important energy sources. If we're talking about our region, then we can't help but say that the region is deficited by energy, but, above all, it's a characteristic high import dependence, lack of interconnection, limited domestic production and a lack of storage, which is the most important limiting factor. Regarding the law on commodity reserves itself, when we ratified the Treaty on the Establishment of an Energy Community, it is the first contract Serbia has with the EU, we have undertaken to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation. In 2008, a decision was made to extend the contract to the oil area, and already in 2009, the obligation for Member States to have mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives. Accordingly, a decision was adopted in 2012 at the Council of Ministers to oblige Member States to establish mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum products not later than 1 January 2023. In order for us to do so, the new Stock Reserve Act allows for the possibility and we have fully harmonised it, and to arrive to have such a mandatory reserve until the deadline I said in 2023. The most important elements of the law that I assume you have already had the opportunity to see are that mandatory reserves are formed in case the security of supply of the Republic of Serbia is threatened with energy and energy due to energy and energy supply disturbances, the way in which the annual obligation of Serbia is established, and according to the directive, mandatory reserves are formed by 31 December 2022 at the latest at 90 days of average daily net imports or 61 days of average daily consumption in the Republic of Serbia. In addition to what is prescribed to form a central storage body, there is another very important thing, which is that mandatory storage reserves in warehouses and directors but also energy entities must have licenses to store oil and petroleum products. Not only is this system law, it's completely different from what we've had so far. A sublegal act that this ministry needs to prepare in the next 10 months we will try to do much sooner, to allow this law to be implemented as soon as possible, or to fulfil our obligation. After all, the most important thing is not just the fulfillment of the obligation, but to really ensure energy stability when we talk about oil and oil derivatives. The second law we are going to discuss today, amendments and additions to the Law on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination. The legal basis for this is certainly the Constitution of our country. We are a country that is one of the few countries that has made the law in the beginning and has brought it into line with a convention that exists on the ban on the development of production. What's very important, essentially, is there's no change in the law except that there's a balance to the criteria for all the other countries. So our companies will do exactly as all other companies do. What I think is significant for you is that the proposed law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its destruction does not touch the fundamental solutions given in the law. The amendments concern, above all, the precision of concentration limits on chemical substances for which there is no obligation for domestic legal persons to submit prescribed reports to the competent ministry, ensuring the same application of the Convention, the international convention that we have. The third law we will discuss is a strategic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation, which concluded an agreement on strategic economic co-operation in November 2012. The government has established a draft bill, sent to parliament, and today we are talking about it. The agreement on strategic economic co-operation envisions establishing co-operation with the intention of implementing concrete projects from energy, infrastructure, industry and agriculture. For now, in an annex to this bill, you will see projects in the field of energy. So, the annex of the agreement provides for the development of selected projects in the field of energy, but we are certainly obliged to start after this, not only in the talks, but in the preparation and feasibility studies and everything that goes beyond that. In particular, three objects are mentioned. One is very important – a reversible Bistrica hydropower plant. I'd stop here because I believe we'll talk a lot more about it. I hope there will be a lot of concrete proposals and everything possible to fix, we are at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26743	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26744	The fourth legislative proposal that we are discussing today concerns the proposal for a law confirming Annex No 2 of the Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. As the vast majority of you know, this agreement was signed in 2009 and it concerned co-operation between the two countries in the area of infrastructure. Under the agreement, three credit arrangements between the two countries are successfully implemented. One is the construction of the Zemun-Borca Bridge, the second is the procurement of equipment or scanners for the purposes of the customs administration of the Republic of Serbia and is the third project Kostolac B. After the agreement was signed, the need for Annex 1 of this Agreement, which was signed in 2012. He practically started applying immediately, but formally entered into force in August of this year. This Annex 1 contained two amendments to the agreement itself. The first amendment concerned the fact that it allowed the transport of goods and services as well as imports of equipment from China for the purposes of these projects not to pay VAT and customs. The second change is of a technical nature, and it concerns the ministry's competence to implement this agreement. During 2012, China initiated a major mechanism of co-operation between China and the Central and Eastern European countries, opened a 10 billion-euro credit line, including 16 Central and Eastern European countries, and the governments of those countries had an obligation to run projects in the area of infrastructure, based on which credit lines could be approved under favourable conditions from this mechanism. The government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted a proposal for three priority projects. The first project is part of the Obrenovac-Ljig highway, the second part is also related to the area of traffic infrastructure, the Pojate-Preljina highway and the new Sad-Rum regional route and the third part concerns energy, or the second phase of the Kostolac B project. This Annex was signed in Beijing on the visit of President Nikolic. The changes we have concern the same things as in previous Annex 1, therefore, the release from payment of VAT and customs on goods, services and import of equipment used for the realization of these projects. In order to create a legal basis for these projects to be more successful, it is necessary to ratify the Agreement in both congregations, namely Annex 2 of this Agreement. We expect to get support for this legislative proposal in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26745	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26746	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, allow me to state the position of the SVM parliamentary group, primarily on the proposal for a law on commodity reserves. It's a very important law that, as we've heard, after 20 years, will restore the legal arrangement of the stock reserve system. One of the main reasons for the adoption of this law, which will precisely define the objectives of the education of commodity reserves, determine the scope and type of products within the framework of commodity reserves and regulate other issues of importance for the harmonisation of the commodity reserve system with European legislation, is the establishment of new solutions. According to the law, the Law on Ratification of the Energy Community Treaty, the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to bring its legislation into line with the requirements of the EU energy directive, which will allow the countries of Southeast Europe to participate fully in the EU's internal energy market. At a meeting of the Council of Ministers, held at the end of 2008, a decision on the extension of the contract was made to the oil area as well. One of the most important issues in this area is the establishment of a system of mandatory oil reserves, in accordance with a directive imposing obligations on Member States to hold minimum reserves of oil or oil derivatives. Taking into account the international obligation, the Stock Reserve Act also regulates the area of mandatory oil reserves and oil derivatives. In the draft law, Article 22 defines the amount of compensation for the establishment of mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives, the method of accounting and the method of payment of this fee, as well as the availability of funds for this fee. It is prescribed that the bonds for the establishment of mandatory oil and oil products reserves are energy operators which carry out the energy performance of the production of oil and oil products, oil derivatives, biofuels and compressed natural gas and are licensed to carry out these energy activities. The SVM Group believes that the proposed solutions will have a positive impact on citizens and businesses, on the safe supply of basic life supplies, energy, industrial and medical products. There's another novelty that we think is extremely positive. The Law on Public Storages for Agricultural Products introduces a significant newspaper for economic operators in agriculture. In 2010, the Republic Reserve Directorate signed a Protocol on Cooperation with the Compensation Fund in order to improve the development of the public storage system and the proposal for a law provided that, if the supply or sale of goods of goods held in public warehouses is possible, the traffic can also be made through goods records, and in accordance with the regulations governing public warehouses and public procurement. If we are talking about agricultural products, we must, of course, talk about the control and disappearance of cereals. We all know that during the current year, a robbery of huge scales was discovered in the stock reserves. There's been a lot of long-term abuse. Mr. Knezevic, more specifically, the Minister of Agriculture said -- it seems all involved are responsible from the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate. The Director of the Stock Reserve Directorate, Mr. Goran Tasic, also admitted that the findings of the controls carried out showed that there were major failures. Some have apparently brutally abused the position of the authorized warehousekeeper and misused the goods they received on guard, as Mr Tasic said at the time. Under the Stock Reserve Act, unauthorized use of goods without written orders of the Directorate on any basis is a criminal offence. Criminal charges against those who did it have been announced. After the controls, you, Mr Ljajic, as well as the then Minister of Agriculture, Mr Goran Knezevic, announced a proposal for measures to be taken after the extraordinary control of the wheat and corn in the stock reserves. That's why I'm asking - how are things in the stock reserves now? What measures have been taken? Has there been any control since then? So, after that big general control, were there any controls in the stock reserves? Have any criminal charges been filed against anyone involved in these malfeasances? As we know, in June are controlled and business entities that have contracts with the Stock Reserve Directorate to store wheat or corn from the stock reserves. It turns out that stealing wheat and corn from the state's stock reserves damaged about 20m euros. A total of 77 controlled silos in seven were found to have no or no large quantities of goods, i.e. about 46,000 tonnes of mercantile wheat and about 32,000 tonnes of mercantile corn. It was everything. For example, the warehouses agreed between themselves and certain quantities of wheat and corn carried each other as control came. Some of them made a double bottom, took down the ladders, and in every way tried to change control. The state, by the way, has been in control of its stock reserves for the first time in 10 years. I'm asking you, since the state is damaged, what about the missing cereal? Is it known that someone is obliged to return the goods that have disappeared, and I primarily think about companies? Since the companies that kept the goods have a contract with the Directorate, I'm interested in whether the contracts with the companies were broken where there was a missing one? In the end, I want to add something about the role of the Directorate. What was the situation? The Directorate borrowed the wheat before harvesting at one price and returned after harvesting when its price was, of course, much lower. It was bought without competition. The price of storage was also determined without competition. I don't think that's how it works in the future. The ban on exports, the social bargaining on prices, and so on always raises the issue of places and roles of reserves in Serbia's economic system. Unlike many agencies in the world where the work of the stock reserve is public and is very insistent on transparency, in our system the work of the Directorate is the biggest state secret. It seems to many that directly the Stock Reserve Directorate can buy and sell, borrow and give to whom they want and how much they want, and that no one has the right to ask her anything. However, we hope that the proposed solutions will have a positive impact on citizens and businesses and there will be no such situation. The SVM parliamentary group believes that stock reserves should predict developments and developments on the market and react before disturbances occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26747	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26748	It is true that there have been great abuses. For the first time in such a comprehensive way, quality control and quantity of goods owned by stock reserves have been done, which are provided for storage of warehouses. During these abuses, or storage, there is a deficit of about 40,000 tonnes of wheat and as much or as little corn as possible. Of that amount, 13,000 tonnes of wheat and only 2,500 tonnes of corn were returned. For those who have returned within a month of the goods which have been identified as a shortfall, the contracts shall not be terminated. For those who have not done so, by the letter of the law, these contracts are no longer valid. The police are doing their part of the job. It was important for us to return as much goods as possible, which was put into storage, and the police are still investigating. It's about heavy abuses, a million-dollar robbery, because not only did these people get the goods for storage, they received significant funds for the rental of a warehouse a month. What we're trying to do now, and so thank you for this question, it's to provide a larger storage space for the Stock Reserve Directorate, that is, for the state. The state of Serbia has everything in its own storage space for 17,500 tonnes of wheat. Slovenia with two million inhabitants has 100,000 square metres of storage space for wheat. Our idea is to now activate the mortgages that were given by the warehouse and take those warehouses in the name of the damage that was done because of the abuse of goods from the stock reserves and to get at least to that 100,000 square meters of storage space owned by the state. This is how we give 460 million a year to rent a warehouse to keep wheat and corn in those warehouses. That's amazing. So all these years we've been able to create a significant storage space that's owned by the state and thus save significant resources and make sure that these things don't come into existence that are now established. We established this after 20 years. Who knows what was done four, five, six, seven or ten years ago with that slave. Obviously, it's a big business. I hope we broke that chain and no one will ever think about doing it again after this. On the other hand, we will be provided by providing more warehouses owned by the state, keeping the goods here, and at any moment we will have insight into the quantity and quality of the goods stored in the stock reserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26749	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26750	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished government representatives, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, in today's joint discussion, I will refer to the proposal for a law on commodity reserves. As we know and as we can see, this current, existing Stock Reserve Act was passed back in 1992. We don't need to stress specifically, and perhaps we should, whatever happened in these areas in the meantime. The war in the environment, sanctions and the bombing of Serbia, the decomposition of two states and the formation of five, six or how many states in these areas, democratic changes in 2002, and of course all of this and how it affected the area of commodity reserves and demanded long ago to launch the initiative and pass a new law on commodity reserves. However, all these events were obviously not convincing enough and strong enough to pass a new law on commodity reserves, a very delicate area, but only now in 2013, in the year or years that follow us, when we have to or are obliged to comply with our legislation with EU legislation and with the EU Directive, and in this law, the proposal for a law on commodity reserves, obviously because of the conditions that the World Trade Organisation is setting before us to become its full member in the obligation to bring this law on commodity reserves. Regardless of the requirements that come from outside the EU, from the World Trade Organisation, Serbia as a serious state would have to take seriously the establishment, i.e. education, storage and financing of commodity reserves, especially at this time of the global economic crisis that we see has been taking place for years, and at the same time economic activities have fallen in Serbia and, of course, the less financial strength of our country. The aim of the establishment of stock reserves is to provide supplies and stability on the market of certain types of goods. As we have said, in the previous law it was only during an emergency, emergency and wartime situation and in times of serious market disturbances. The emergency situation is now being introduced, i.e. in the case of natural disasters, means, and then the stock reserves will intervene on the market, when there are serious market disturbances and remains, of course, both war and emergency. Of course, it is too important to point out how delicate the issue of commodity reserves is, and how important it is at the same time in this time in which Serbia and its economy now exist. The management of the stock reserves covered by the old law by agricultural and food products, medicines and sanitary materials, industrial products, raw materials and re-promaterials for their renewal was carried out by the Republic of the Reserve Directorate. She was responsible for organising, setting up, storage and funding the stock reserves. I purposely say responsible because the responsibility of the management of the stock reserves, which was the most on the Stock Reserve Directorate, and also on the contractual obligation and on the warehouses, obviously did not come to life with us as it should have been years ago. He mentioned a colleague, and we all have to look back and we can't just go through this summer's affairs about incredible robberies and crime when it comes to state stock. We were all witnessing that control of 77 warehouses in which stock reserves kept their products a found shortage of over 80,000 tonnes of grain worth more than 20m euros. The Directorate, apparently years ago, and it was seen during the control and it wasn't even controlled whether the warehouses had warehouses in a certain capacity, or whether those warehouses were adequate for a particular type of goods and even less, it wasn't periodically controlled whether there really was a particular commodity with which she contracted with the warehouse. Since there was no system of public procurement, during the procurement, when renting the warehouse, when lending certain goods, and at the time of sale, there was no transparent way in which they were both purchased and refurbished and stored the stock reserves. Of course, it opened up a great deal of space for crime and corruption, which, unfortunately, proved to be in the affairs of this summer. We simply don't know if we would have discovered that there were these machinations if it hadn't gotten into the control of the panic azotar where it was found that the borrowed grain was sold at one of the higher prices and borrowed at a lower price. It was not until the initiative that it started to control the other stock reserves, and it was found that the Zemun Veterinary Office borrowed 17,000 tonnes of grain, that the same grain of 175 million dinars only returned 996 tonnes and remained in debt to 166 million dinars to the stock reserves. Of course, we all know that these business transactions, successful business transactions in order to say it today, and sometimes it's called profit and greenery, are mainly with known names of businessmen, whose biographies are full of today's tabloids, but mostly underneath their paintings are the title that these businessmen obviously still protect today. As it ends, you have now and partly answered the question of your colleagues, the previous speaker, how all these procedures for this incredible robbery of stock reserves will end, remains to be seen in the time ahead. We hope that it will result in a court solution and that it will certainly not remain only on the cover of the tabloids. But let's deal with the new Stock Reserve Bill now. You said yourself, Mr. Minister, and Mrs. Minister, that the first largest newspaper here in this law is a new chapter. This is the formation and use of mandatory reserves of oil derivatives, covering members from 15 to 32 in the law. First of all, it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to comply with EU plantings and to regulate the area of oil and oil production in accordance with the treaty on the energy stability of Southeast Europe, which is signed between the EU and the countries of Southeast Europe. In 2012, the Minister said that this contract was extended to reserves and oil derivatives and all member states, at least I understand that, EU members are obliged, and you will later correct me, under the obligation to establish a stock reserve by 1 January 2023. Now I wonder whether for the member states or for the countries signatories of this treaty, and I believe you will answer me. We of the DSS believe that the introduction of this chapter on the obligations of oil and petroleum products reserves into this law on commodity reserves, in the way in which it is introduced, disrupted or disrupted the integrity of the system of management of commodity reserves and, above all, in the functioning of the very Directorate in terms of jurisdiction, accountability and overall operation of the Directorate. In this proposal for a law, the responsibilities of the stock reserves are literally divided between the Trade Reserve Directorate and the Ministry of Energy. These are the meanings of the two entities that have now placed their powers in one law, hence we say that this integrity in the management of the stock reserves is disrupted. Namely, the Stock Reserve Directorate remains to manage over reserves of agricultural and food products, medicines, sanitary materials, railway equipment, energy sector, traffic, etc. Up to the absolute full power of oil and oil reserves is excluded from the Directorate and given to the Ministry of Energy, which is now a central storage body under the law. So, all that about the oil supply from the contracts, the storage, the availability, the renewal is in the power of the Ministry of Energy and the fact that the Directorate here serves literally as the warehouse of the Ministry of Energy. The other ministries, the Ministry of Health, which is also important when it comes to stock reserves. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Trade, are simply here a little bit, I would say to be terminated because even the law does not say that their opinion is important or that on a proposal their annual plan of these goods, or those goods that are by nature things fall within their jurisdiction. Furthermore, the medium-term programmes, or plans, were abolished when it came to remaining stock reserves past oil derivatives. Only annual plans are now being made, and based on the annual plans presented by the Directorate to the Government, the government is adopting them. We believe and have responded here with the amendment that for the sake of safety, first of all, in stock reserves, we should maintain the adoption of these medium-term plans and programmes and for these stock reserves, past oil and oil derivatives. Furthermore, there are no organisational parts in the bill as was the previous law. At that time, it stood in Novi Sad and Pristina, at least in this law could stand for the directorate to form its own organisational parts for the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and KIM. Obviously, we cannot overlook this from the DSS, that all the new legal proposals that come into this Assembly are highly skillful, of course, on purpose, when it comes to the jurisdiction of certain legislative proposals, which should also be extended in the territory of autonomous provinces, is artificially amputated, and KIM is no longer mentioned as a territory in which the laws adopted by this Assembly will be applied later. Because you are removing KIM from all legal proposals, it is obvious that it is suffering Vojvodina, so there is neither Novi Sad nor Pristina, or at least Kosovo Mitrovica, as the organisational parts of the Stock Reserve Directorate. Remember, and this is our territory and we must remain our territory and we must rule our laws on that territory. Furthermore, you, in the case of funds for the operations of the Stock Reserve Directorate, in the current Bill's proposal, were meant to be provided from the budget, from sources that the Market Directorate himself can earn, as I say, from other sources. Now, in this bill of law, you're saying it's only going to be from the budget and other sources. We don't see why you're removing the directorate -- your own income, because in law, you've given them the opportunity to sell to renew. Of course, household would be to sell at a more expensive price and buy it at a cheaper price, not that it is possible for certain businessmen, so there is reason to remain a point that the directorship should be financed from its own incomes. Let me just give you a little commendation, when it comes to art. The Institute of Public Procurement is finally in place in the purchase of goods reserves. Let us hope that the existing machinations that we have seen last for years will be completely eliminated and that finally the stock reserves will be managed in the most domestic manner as every honest, honest host in Serbia manages both with his own pantry and with his own pantry. When it comes to this third chapter of the oil and oil reserves, I have already pointed out that we have responded quite a bit to the amendments here and we have sought to preserve these amendments integrity in the management of the stock reserves and that some of the responsibilities that have been transferred, or that the Ministry of Energy has taken over, in some ways, the jurisdiction of the Directorate, not only be a warehouse for oil derivatives. We first thought that we would delete this whole chapter with an amendment and simply propose to be subject to either a new legislative proposal or to be the subject of a government regulation, because it is also, we agree, very important to establish stock reserves, when it comes to oil and oil derivatives, but because of this violation of the jurisdiction of one of the directorates, the second question is the Ministry of Energy, simply because of this, somewhat unnatural overlapping of competence, we felt that one new draft law should be taken care of by oil derivatives. But I hope that both of us and the other minister will respond to these dilemmas of ours. The next newspaper in this bill is the introduction of a fee for the formation of mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives. So that's one new imposition that will certainly pay, at least that's what the law says, all the entities involved in the production and trade in oil and oil derivatives and biodiesel. The fact is that this fee will certainly have to be passed on to the end consumer, to all of us citizens who use these oil derivatives. I don't believe it or I'm just skeptical whether the government has now given them the opportunity to control how much and in what degree these obligations will be passed on to citizens, how much they're going to collect everything they buy at gas stations, how much they're going to be in a situation to regulate or limit the price rise when it comes to the new fee that's now being imposed. Finally, let me refer to supervision and criminal provisions in this bill. Of course, the most important thing that happened in the previous law was because of these malfeasances, because mostly all those acts that were meant to be held accountable, were based on misapplications, I have to say that in no applicable law, no member was prescribed to control the storage of goods, there was no surveillance. The directorate, apparently did not enter into its jurisdiction, did nothing, and the fines were intended only for the responsible persons on the side of the warehouse, although we can see by the old law could not be sold, nor would it lend to a state reserve without the written consent of the Stock Reserve Directorate. We all said, I hope that someone else will look back, because we can't help but subdue it, there's been a huge robbery and a huge crime with state reserves. The supervision is now foreseen by agricultural and market inspectors, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Trade, will also be monitored by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy, certainly for the oil products sector. We'll see, I'm afraid, and I'm asking whether these ministries and these inspectorates have human potential, because we've talked here before about the Agriculture Act, so we know what the problem is with agricultural inspectors, with market inspectors. They have much to deal with both areas and unresolved issues in those areas that have been monitored so far, another obligation for them, and with this number, I'm afraid there will be no efficiency. Mr. Minister, I have to ask you something, as far as criminal measures are concerned, they come down, no more, that we understand criminal responsibility for all possible malfeasances both on the side of the warehouse and on the side of the responsible people in the department. All these criminal measures are now brought down to the economic crime and the offence, and those penalties apply only to those members in the law that treat oil and oil derivatives. So, if only that warehouse, and not the responsible person in the Ministry of Energy, if they don't comply with the law and don't comply, because it's called for all the members, if they don't do the job by law, they'll be eligible under the Law of Business Crime or by the Law of Infringement. However, the law does not mention criminal provisions for machinations with other commodity reserves, with cereals, medicines, with energy equipment, "The Railway", PTT. We've had huge grain thefts a few months ago, and now in law, no member is told what are the penal provisions for machinations with these products as part of the stock reserves. I find it absolutely inadmissible, as it is inadmissible to wipe out criminal responsibility and remain only responsible for economic crime and criminal responsibility. Just to point out that for the sake of the public, only fines for legal persons from 10,000 dinars to 3,000,000 dinars and I see that the law provides for a fine of up to 3,000,000 dinars, and for a responsible person, a natural person in a legal person, from 2,000 dinars to 200,000 dinars, and a fine of between 5,000 dinars to 150,000 dinars for natural persons and legal persons from 100,000 dinars to 200,000 dinars and prisons from one to 60 days can be prescribed. We're afraid that with this kind of criminal policy, when it comes to these stock reserves, which aren't oil derivatives, they're going to open up again a space for machinations and robbery. So much now in this principle debate, and we'll see later about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26751	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26752	I hope you won't be right about this being the basis for the robbery and robbery, but here's a few clarifications. When you spoke about the Council of Ministers and EU members, it is meant by the members of the countries of the energy community. It is an energy community where Serbia is a member, otherwise EU countries, they have their mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives, and we are slowly joining it. The first deadline was 2020, so last year at the Council of Ministers' Council of Southeast Europe agreed that the deadline must be moved, because it is not possible to establish such warehouses and have, not only the law, but the real, oil and oil warehouses. The other thing that you mention here, between the warehousers, as you call the Directorate and the Ministry, I just have to tell you one thing, that in other countries, in most countries, not all of them, it's not set up when we talk about the countries of Southeast Europe, but when we talk about another, it's mostly the agency, the competent ministries form agencies for mandatory oil and petroleum products reserves. We felt that this would not be good because there is sufficient capacity for the Ministry to take account, which is according to the Energy Act and all the laws on energy security, about the sufficient oil and oil derivatives, of course, especially in cases of crisis or any other situation, and also in accordance with the new directive, and that the Directorate deals with exactly what you say, that it has practically with those reserves, storage and all that is in that sense. So we're just determining what it takes, how much, whether it's short-, medium-term or long-term plans that the Ministry is preparing. In that sense, we make sure that we secure energy security, that's our mission, and those who have an oil derivative, those about all these other things that you've already mentioned. For now, I don't know if there was anything else, you'll remind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26753	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26754	You pointed out four things, actually objections to the proposed bill. The first concerns seats, or organisational parts of the Directorate that may be outside Belgrade. That's right. In the previous law, it was the solution that the Republic Directorate has its own organisational parts based in Novi Sad and Pristina. The current solution says -the directorate may have special organisational units outside its seat. So it doesn't rule out the places you mentioned, but it also doesn't rule out, say Nis, Kragujevac, or some other cities that have the capacity to be. Second, about the medium-term plans. That's right. There was a solution in the previous law, in article 6 around medium-term programmes, but the programme was never adopted. He's never been brought in, that's why. In the position of Article 6(3), it was – the medium-term programme is in line with the plan for the development of the Republic and the plan for the defence of the Republic. They had nothing to comply with, because these plans weren't made. Never has this medium-term plan, which was scheduled for five years, been brought in. Therefore, why apply a solution that, in practice, is inapplicable. So we decided on these one-year programmes, or plans. With these other two exact, honest, I would agree with you as a man, but I'll tell you why I can't agree as a minister. First, it was about its own income. We have fought for this solution, but we have received the Ministry of Finance's opinion that the Directorate is a direct budget user, no more own revenue. It is true that it could compromise the functioning of the stock reserves. Until the end, we insisted on a solution, looking for a compromise solution. That's not what we did. And the other thing is similar. Article 24. The draft law provided for criminal acts in this law, however, we have received the opinion of the Justice Ministry, which says the Criminal Code is intended and systematised for all crimes, including crimes against the economy, whose protective property and goods. So there are crimes for all these kinds of abuses that you've been talking about. We wanted to make this particularly clear in this bill, but we got the opinion of the Justice Ministry that it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26755	Thank you. The word has Gorica Gajic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26756	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I don't want to repeat myself. I totally understand when it comes to own resources, but once again I want to look back at the criminal policy for stock reserves past oil and oil derivatives. It's not true, or, simply, I can't accept that we couldn't put in the law that the responsible persons on both side of the warehouse and on the side of the Stock Reserve Directorate would be punished by law on criminal offences, or whatever it is called, I'm not a lawyer. That and that. Specify a member or not to specify a member. We know that in the Criminal Code, the whole area is defined, or at least prescribed penalties for certain crimes in the economy, but when you don't have a foothold in this law to call on a member of this and that, these are still a stock reserve and yet we have had an incredible robbery and incredible machinations years ago. It's simply incomprehensible that you've received such an interpretation now that we have a new law that, I say, could have been installed by one such member to eliminate the potential potential danger of ever happening again, again I have to call it a crime, which will not be just a punishment of up to three million dinars. Well, that's 30,000 euros for you today, and you can see that our damages are measured by billions of dinars. A billion and a half dinars only Azotara took wheat from the stock reserves and reselled and earned on that figure and at that amount. I can't accept such an interpretation of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26757	The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26758	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will not differ much from colleagues who have so far spoken about the law on commodity reserves, so I must also realize that it is a good thing that this law is finally passed after a full 20 years. But the question here is, what has been waiting so long with this law, why has it taken 20 years to legally restore the legal arrangement of the commodity reserve system? During all these decades, many experts in this area have pointed out the need and need to pass a new law, but the state, although during these decades it has formed various teams to pass these law-making laws, always at the last moment for some inexplicable or explaining reasons, has been halting this process. This was obviously about the great interest and the enormous possibilities of abuse which has proved to be quite true lately. It is simply amazing that there has been no control over the work of the Directorate for Stock Reserves and Ministers for over 10 years, it is entirely commendable that this control has finally taken place, as far as I know, initiated by you and the former Minister of Agriculture. It is commendable, but it certainly is not to be commended, or commended for the results obtained by that control because they have shown that this is about an endless kidnapping of state property. You have already given certain answers to questions asked by some of your fellow Members, but regardless of whether 40,000 tonnes of grain have been returned, and that is no longer 80,000 tonnes, this is one huge amount of missing cereal, and if the less value of 20 million euros stolen, it is one huge figure, and I think that the state and competent authorities must act urgently. In order for that to happen to us again, in order for us not to have had these failures that we've had, I have to, like my colleagues, remind myself of what's been going on over the past decade. First of all, the huge gaps were in the commission's work on selecting storage providers. Contracts have been concluded with companies that have no warehouses at all, i.e. they have no silos or those personnel that the law provides for. A special story is the choice of warehouses, there absolutely, at least according to this information that I have, there was no public advertising, and it was the directors who had the last word on the proposal of the commission, or decided. Also in the purchase of goods, no one in the Directorate has checked whether these goods really exist, whether they are in that quantity or only on paper, which was a very common case. I've had the opportunity to go to several companies where workers pointed to this particular kind of abuse. There was also a refurbishment of goods behind abuse. You know, the Directorate allows the storekeeper to sell the goods when her whole is the biggest, and then to make up for that stuff when the price of the goods is the lowest, I think the layman is clear what difference in price is and who was that money going to be. I think it's also clear to the layman what the price difference is and who that money went to. What I think is a big problem, and if it wasn't solved in this new law, it was a great responsibility of the Head of the Directorate, so the Director. Under the previous law, there was used a legal vacuum that existed. Namely, his responsibility has been completely left out in the act under the Public Procurement Act because the supply of goods is treated as a state and military secret. I think we're all clear on how much of the abuse framework was. The new law, however, provides a fine for a responsible person, ranging from 50,000 to 150,000 dinars. I'm really interested now, Minister - do you think this is a sufficient range of penalties to change the situation in the stock reserves and that these amounts and the intended criminal penalties will be a stimulant that we no longer have abuses and machinations in the stock reserves? There's been a lot of talk in the last few months about these abuses in stock reserves. However, what I am interested in, it is already one of my fellow MPs and has set up, with us otherwise, the situation in Serbia, three days is buzzing, it's being told, and then they just stop every story. In the case of 20m euros of abuse in stock reserves, only the director of Žitostoga is arrested or processed until today, where it is suspected that he has damaged the stock reserves for four million dinars. Then I fully ask the question – what about the other four million dinars. That's three hundred and some thousand euros, 350,000. What about that difference up to 20,000,000 euros? What was very interesting to me, by reading these laws and looking at a little literature about this law, was, in fact, that earlier legal solutions, the theft of goods reserves was characterized as a threat to the country's economic power and considered a form of terrorism. We today consider all these violations a violation, so I'm interested - why didn't the bill promoter take into account these earlier solutions that were in the Stock Reserve Act? Because of all this, Minister, I think you know very well what was in the stock reserves, not to repeat myself, and the double bottom, and the cover-up of a variety of machinations. I think you should seriously study all the proposed amendments and improve the law by their possible adoption, in this particular part that I see most of us, and it is in the work that will enable the prevention of abuse. The Liberal Democratic Party has tabled several amendments to this law, one of these amendments is to Article 7, relating to the powers of the Director of the Directorate. That's exactly what I was talking about before. It is my deep belief that the new law should not give the Director of the Directorate the opportunity to prescribe the degree of secrecy of information, documents and contracts, because we have seen how far and what it can lead to. That is why we have tabled an amendment and suggested that the regulation of the degree of secrecy of data should be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In line with this, an amendment to Article 2, where another principle is added, which is "the principle of public", is not to say transparency, because the basic data on the type, quantity, quality, duration and users must be available to the general public and to the simplest stock reserves and the work of the stock reserves must be made public and all basic data must be made available to citizens and economic operators. I think the public is something that controls the work of every institution and every system, including a reserve system. I think by adopting these amendments, this law in this part, which concerns the possibility of abuse and machination, would be greatly improved.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26759	In the words of Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26760	All of what you said, what happened to the goods from the stock reserve, was also the reason we're passing a whole new law. It was more or less a public secret that the goods, which were given to storekeepers, existed only on paper, and that was the main motive to go into this action to control the quality and quantity of that goods. For years there's been this story that only there's documentation. When the representatives of the Directorate leave to control, they get documentation where everything is supposed to be clean. Then on the ground we had the opportunity to see everything and everything and, after all, the outcome was devastating. Unfortunately, no 40,000 tonnes have been returned so far. I said, only 13,000 wheat and 2.5 tons of corn were returned. So that's 15.5,000 tons of 80,000 that's gone. The directorate, as far as I know, gave all the paperwork to the police on all the abuses. Absolutely everything you needed. The government has come up with a proposal to measure, among other things, that the MUP should now do this second part of the job, which is related to these abuses. Next thing you know, the crime scene thing, I just explained what the reason was. We wanted to put this as special crimes. This article, which you quote, does not refer to goods from stock reserves, but refers only to Article 22, i.e. the storage of oil and petroleum products. Any type of abuse related to commodity reserves shall be treated as a criminal offence under the Criminal Code. That's why we didn't classify it, because the Ministry of Business has given an interpretation that this can't be treated as special crimes, but that the basis of the Criminal Code is sufficient. No offense for these kinds of abuses, it's all about crimes. So we really wanted to classify it, but also the interpretation was that in practice with these special crimes there are problems and that there is sufficient basis for this Criminal Code. As far as this Article 7 is concerned, it is merely a practical provision prescribed by the Data Securitisation Act, the Director, or the Responsible Person, prescribes the degree of confidentiality of the data. There's literally a copy of that provision. I have nothing against this solution that you've been talking about, but it's about harmonising with another bill. Therefore, it seems to me that this law will provide a basis for doing all that you have now stated in your presentation. We had a law that gave no basis for any kind of surveillance. No kind of surveillance was, but depending on who the Director of the Directorate was, he decided whether to go into control or not to go into control, his goodwill. We are now strictly saying who is overseeing the application of this law. This is practically about four ministries, which will carry out this kind of surveillance, or control. I truly believe that we have come to the text of a solution that is transparent enough to prevent to a large extent what has happened in the past. I will easily agree with you that it has been abundant. After all, we've probably discovered only one part of what happened in the past. Maybe this is just the tip of the iceberg, and if the trains were passing, passing and someone got fat from storing goods from the stock reserves. Now I really don't know if and how these public procurements were conducted for the warehouses. I can't say anything. I can only believe what you say. I don't have any other information from that one.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26761	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26762	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, Madam Minister is currently absent, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact that the applicable law was adopted in 1992 certainly produces the need to bring individual solutions in line with the legislation and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which has, in many ways, been amended since 1992, and certain solutions that need to be brought into line with the strategic objective of the Serbian state to be a full member of the EU, the World Trade Organisation, and of course, the need for certain solutions to be improved, in order to identify the shortcomings in the application of the existing law eliminated. It seems to me that maybe this last reason I said, if not at the very level of these previous ones, maybe even the most important. Why? I am talking about one system law, and I am also talking about what is said in Article 3(2) on supply, i.e. providing the supply of the population with agricultural and food products, medicines and medical products and products necessary for the lives of people, animal health, etc., which speaks sufficiently of the importance of this area governed by this law. That is why I want to say that I also really agree with the part of the discussion of previous speakers, that it is important to take seriously certain concerns which, above all, concern the public's current work in the commodity reserves, which means that some modern practice means that in the world, stock reserves are no longer a couple of excellencies state secrets, and of course the state of Serbia should strive to do so. On the other hand, questions were often raised as to what all their stock reserves had, whether these goods were at all usable and whether these quantities were actually recorded in the relevant documentation. One of the questions is how do stock reserves are obtained, and how is the storage price determined? As a result, we have also had announcements that certain associations of businessmen have highlighted the demand for the public to work on stock reserves. It even went to this point that it was required in a certain period to establish a National Assembly polling committee with the aim of examining the functioning of the stock reserves and seeing all the problems. Of course, with this practice it is necessary to break up. I would really like to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Dacic, with my coalition partners and resolute ministries who have also prescribed precise measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the Work Group's report on the state of emergency, supply and quality of merkatile corn and wheat owned by the Republic of Serbia, which accurately provides for specific responsibilities in relation to the MUP, the Working Group which has been educated by the government's conclusion since 12 April of the current year, and thus the Resort Ministry responsible for trade affairs. Of course, it takes determination in all of this. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Dacic, has shown its determination to examine and determine how stock reserves have been done so far, whether the information is correct that there were double bottoms in silos, that there was one state of documentation, and the fact that goods were different. I think we should insist on intent and determination to establish everything in accordance with the law. Why do I say that? It has already been mentioned in Article 20 of the applicable law, which gives certain indications and recommendations that, in accordance with the applicable law, any such control could be determined whether there are certain abuses, as it says here that the company and the other legal person, who, under the contract, can not be used, alienated, replaced, etc. under this law, without a written order from the Republic of Croatia. The question arises – how could this happen without consent in the first place? On the other hand, I would agree in part with you, Minister, when you say – the director who had broad powers and did not want to control. It seems to me in his previous period, not entering governments that were before and something long before, let me say, and that director had someone above, he could have been given a warrant to carry out certain controls, if he didn't want to, I suppose there were mechanisms in any way to force any of the directors, I'm not talking about the current one and the one before, to get this job done by the end. The proposal for a law on commodity reserves, the position of the SPS, is more comprehensive, more precise, provides the public with stock reserves and control mechanisms, primarily in education, financing, deployment and use and renewal of goods reserves. These are, above all, the reasons why the SPS parliamentary club will in principle support the draft law on commodity reserves. Speaking of comprehensiveness, the minister has already said in the opening statement, the essence of things is in Article 4 where they are precisely and broadly set and defined, exactly what the stock reserves represent, unlike the previous law. What is essential is that this Article 4 provides both mandatory reserves, i.e. oil and oil derivatives and equipment and goods for railway purposes, other products of importance for the provision of supply and stability. We think that this law defines in that sense a more comprehensive coverage of what goods reserves are. On the other hand, it is more precise and what we think is important, when it comes to stock reserves, and by respecting the experience we have had so far, is that transparency and the public work in the stock reserves. We also believe that the provisions on the principle of business and management of commodity reserves, which are set up in Article 2, and above all, in addition to this principle of supply and stability and the principle of good business, this second principle of market business, tells us that the operation of goods reserves is done according to market conditions and in line with the principles of equal legal position of all market participants, talks about how the legislator, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry, when it comes to the stock reserves in the future period. We think it's really good. When we talk about transparency and the public of work, I think it is very important to mention that Article 7, which has already been spoken of here, and he is decadently in his position of the 1st, says that the Directorate is operating on the stock reserves in a transparent manner, in which we are indeed insisting and supporting both the Government and the Resent Ministry, but in that sense I would agree with certain speakers that there should be some caution here, and you seem to me, Minister, and in that sense you stressed that certain provisions have been prescribed. We think that in this regard, however, it is possible, with some agreement of the Ministry or, although this provision remains, to appreciate the possibility that the Director's act will in this way narrow the transparency, or what is prescribed in paragraph 1, of adequate control, determines the exemption from this way of transparent business in respect of the reserve of goods, i.e. the operation of the Directorate. When we talk about a more precise approach, I think that we can carry out a certain comparison of the former Article 8 and Article 11 which here defines in a more precise way the education of commodity reserves through the purchase of goods and the contracting of the production of certain products, which has so far been the case in Article 8. But so far, the way of education is also through trade in goods. It's a more precise provision. When it comes to procurement and renewal, so far it has been the case that the purchase of goods for commodity reserves is done at market prices or prices. Here we now have in Articles 12 and 13 exclusively that public competition, i.e. public advertising or over the stock market, which we also think is good, will narrow down the circle of possible corruption and abuse. What I want in front of the SPS is to express my hope that this will not question the operationality of the operation of the stock reserve, respecting the experience of applying the Public Procurement Act in certain areas. I hope that all entities that are to apply the Public Procurement Act, i.e. public competition and public advertisements, have prepared themselves for this procedure in good time. Of course, the annual programme and the financial plan for implementation, which adopts the Government on a proposal from the Directorate and submits it to the Government as a report, is sufficient and necessary condition that the Government has full insight into its functioning and, of course, there can be certain indications from that report to improve work, above all to determine whether the annual plan has been achieved or possible problems in the functioning of goods reserves. More specifically, someone considered this rather different in the debate, because the financing, for the purposes of the stock reserves in Article 13 of the current law, was envisaged in a way that was financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, the revenues that the Republic's Directorate made in carrying out its business, credit to banks and other sources, perhaps unnecessary provisions that were in the case of bank loans or something else when they were already added from other sources. It might be more interesting if the proposer puts it that way when we talk about Article 10 where we now have only a provision to finance themselves from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other sources in accordance with the law on what it is in principle and what it is thought, what other sources are in line with the law, what is it that will prevail when other sources are concerned and whether there may be room for a public-private partnership or I don't already know what else. I think we'd better be more specific here. Of course, according to the commitments made to bring domestic legislation into line with the EU and the obligation to keep minimum reserves of oil or oil derivatives in line with the requirements of the use of mandatory oil reserves and oil derivatives in conditions where security of supply of energy and energy was threatened, it was necessary to provide for this law. In parallel, there may be some different solutions in this sense that there is a special law or in a different way to regulate the mandatory reserve. I think we have a good solution and it's appropriate for our practice. What I want to say when it comes above all to mandatory reserves, it is also important for me personally, when it comes to mandatory reserves, that transparency and the public are provided in the work, especially when it comes to Article 26, which says that warehouses that have submitted the lowest price of storage in the public tender, with the fulfilment of all other requirements of the reserve storage facility, which is logically and very important, and on the other hand, the warehouse that provides storage facilities in public property and has a storage contract with mandatory reserves, is obliged to provide the authorised director with free access to the warehouse and complete documentation. Of course, this provision points to the possibility of doing something and doing things again and again to the beginning in this sense that it will be very important to express the intention, consistency, and to the end of the desire to make full use of legal opportunities to control fully the way goods reserves function, as well as the mandatory stock reserves. In addition, when it comes to this control mechanism, Article 29 states that warehouses using tanks in public property are required to deliver monthly reports on the prescribed form of the Directorate, which provides for some kind of insight, and Article 30 requires that, at the request of the authorised inspector, it be made available to the documents, access to the reserve reserves, the situation of the stored reserves for the Directorate, energy entities and warehouses. So there is a way, there are envisaged mechanisms to perform and control when it comes to mandatory reserves. This is what we consider and what comes from the practice that has proved to date to be controversial and perhaps problematic and therefore we think that this law offers certain solutions in this sense. Therefore, legal assumptions have also been created for the transparency of mandatory reserves, preventing abuses with certain effective controls and market and agricultural inspectors and the work of the relevant ministry. So, when it comes to this law, let me conclude, one above all consistent application of the law will provide for the public in the work, a control that must monitor the determination of both the government itself and all the entities that are legally required to exercise that control. The Socialist Party of Serbia and I personally want to see as little of these emergency situations as possible from the stock reserves, but we appreciate that progress and good results in this important area can be achieved in this way and in this law consistently. That is why we, or MPs of the SPS, will in principle support this bill. We are certainly ready to take part in the debate on amendments and in particular and to support possibly amendments that can speed up the quality of this law. Given that the subject of this united discussion and the proposal for two agreements is, above all, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation on Strategic Economic Co-operation, and the Law on Confirmation of Annex No. 2 of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, I would like to say that the MP club of the SPS will support these two agreements and in general agreements that promote bilateral co-operation and the possibility of economic development, economic progress and the realisation of very key infrastructure projects, projects in energy, industry and agriculture, and we appreciate that they are welcome. Any such agreements that go in this direction as a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS parliamentary club will support it. When it comes to the draft law amending the Law on banning the development of production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, we have heard, this is a very current topic due to events in the world, the war hotspots. In the very explanation, the legislator presented the fact that we are a state and under special surveillance because we were in a state that had once had chemical weapons and, in accordance with our obligations taken over by certain conventions at conferences, the Government proposed this law and full compliance with this regulation with the modern world regulation and obligations it has undertaken, shows real responsibility and commitment to meeting the commitments undertaken in this very important area and problem. We will also in principle support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26763	Thank you very much. Minister Rasim Ljajic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26764	As for article 10 on the funding of stock reserves, you asked what other sources of funding were. These are public-private partnerships, they are donations, they are EU funds, and if they ever return to their own revenues to the Directorate, they will also be able to use those funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26765	I thank Minister Ljajic. The People's MP, Djordje Stojsic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26766	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You gave me your word even though some major parliamentary groups had already participated in the discussion. We usually report at the beginning, but we want to make a modest contribution to this debate, given that the stock reserves are important to us who come from Vojvodina, and I want to mention a few things to the government. We know what's been going on in that sector so far. Many fellow MPs have already pointed out that there have been a number of abuses, that in a very strange way contracts have been awarded, goods have disappeared, etc., but I think what we should understand here is that stock reserves are an extremely important mechanism for the state to have a market impact on price stability above all. So far, the stock reserves were mostly prone to the pressures followed by perhaps populist measures, or the desire to influence the grain market with certain ransom prices, the stock reserves met such requirements, and in a number of cases they entered perhaps strange times into the purchase of these cereals. There are productive stock exchanges in the world that are far more developed than we are and it is good to go in the direction that such measures are taken in the open market, i.e. on the product stock market that exists. It will certainly improve the work of the stock reserves and thus contribute to the impact of the stock reserves on price stability. It is also a big question whether the stock reserves are only for market interventions, i.e. buying and storage products for emergency situations, or also for the purpose of affecting the market in terms of prices. It would be very important to establish clearly prescribed criteria on the basis of which the stock reserves sell goods, i.e. purchases. Most of the talk here was about abuses related to the lack of goods, but I think to a greater extent that many prominent participants in the grain market are making a huge extra profit thanks to all the legal transactions with stock reserves. You get a huge amount of grain when the price is high, sell it, or export it and replace those same quantities in the harvest when the price is lower. It's all perfectly legal, but somebody made a huge extra profit. It's an aspect to be seen in the future. Economic empires were created on the basis of this relationship, which was extremely unhealthy, or harmful to the state. In that sense, I would like some comment from you – how do you view it in the future? As far as energy stability is concerned, it is good to at least regain a little energy sovereignty, given that it is absolutely paradoxical that today someone here is giving you a lecture on energy stability when the oil industry of Serbia has all its findings sold for far less than it was worth, so we don't even have a "s" of energy stability. I don't know where these derivatives will be stored, since the entire storage facilities are now owned by a foreign company, or by a foreign state? Maybe an arrangement can be made with the army? I think that over the past period, not during this government, we have missed the opportunity to secure our country's energy stability, since we are not in control or that the oil industry of Serbia is no longer the owner of any of the sites and we have had the opportunity to listen and watch. But I would also like to know about future oil and gas sites, is there any strategy to ensure energy stability? Anyway, this law is good. There are some parts that may be controversial to us. This mentions something called – market surpluses. I think it's a termology that's a relic of the past. What does it mean – market surpluses in the market economy? The price determines whether something is extra or not and the market surplus as a formulation is quite controversial. For it is said: "The slave reserves will enter the purchase of market surpluses". What are market surpluses when you operate in capitalist or market economy? It used to make sense, today I think that formula is out of date. In any case, LSVM will support this law. I think that everything that goes towards introducing order in this segment is good, with what we would like both Mr Ljajic and Mrs Mihajlovic to answer a few of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26767	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26768	As far as the price is concerned, it is strictly in Article 3. emphasized what stock reserves are used for and in what situations. So, ensuring stability and supply on the market, in three situations: emergency situations, natural disasters, war and market disturbances. In no way, where the World Trade Organisation has insisted, it must not affect the trend in prices on the market that are being created freely. As for the sale of goods from stock reserves, Article 13 also states that the sale is done through public advertising, public competition, as well as through the stock market. We will soon pass a law on stock exchanges, for the first time, which also makes this whole process transparent enough. The other thing about the warehouse. We need to take two steps here. The first step is what we can do now, and that's more control, more surveillance, more control than we've ever had before. A lasting solution is seen in the state providing as much of its storage space as possible. How are we gonna do that? I said already in the opening statement – by triggering the mortgages, because many warehouses have given their warehouses as mortgages in this court procedure that will certainly go and those who have not returned the grain they have taken, these mortgages will be activated according to the letter of the law. Instead of paying 460 million a year to rent these warehouses, the Stock Reserve Directorate needs to find a way to build or buy its own warehouses. We think it's much more effective from the point of view and cost, but also to prevent this kind of abuse that we've now had.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26769	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26770	About the warehouse and where mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives will be placed. So, what's in public property, it's certainly in the Stock Reserve Directorate where there's room for 180 thousand cubic metres, then in the "Transnafta" which is a public enterprise and where there's room for 130 thousand cubic metres and that's in public property. Of course that's not enough. There are certain storage spaces in that NIS you mentioned, and the private, plus those that need to be built. So there's going to be a public tender for what's not public property. Therefore, those who are given the opportunity to use a public tender to store mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives will have the possibility. Whether it's NIS or these privates I mentioned, plus that extra story that we're missing more storage space, that's what we'll see. But what's in public property is "Transnafta" and we are now practically putting in for the first time the company "Transnafta" as a public company where there will certainly be mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26771	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26772	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers, our parliamentary group will support all four legislative proposals, because we are among the greatest critics of our society since the establishment of our political parties. The analysis of the situation in the stock reserves shows how right we are when we say that the state needs to strengthen its institutions, to get serious and that the state with its poor system solutions was the main generator of the crisis and created the most suitable bases for corruption and crime, which also happened in the case of stock reserves. By forming this government, I will repeat it countless times, we have said that everything that goes into favour of the strength of state institutions, the fight against corruption and crime, we will support it with both hands and there was no dilemma there nor will be. If it's analyzed why we discussed the Private Security and Detective Action Act the other day, and for 20 and a few years we've had it in practice but we don't have legal solutions, here, 21 years we've been waiting for a new law on commodity reserves that I could freely call with full responsibility not only system law but essential anti-corruption law. The work of the stock reserves in a closed system of crime and corruption was such that we had, for example, for the sake of, of course, the acquisition of stock reserves without a tender, numerous abuses, poor control, non-systematic control, a closed circle in which a well-known circle of people, mostly thanks to state resources and government negligence, earned huge financial resources. The police are doing their job, but we will only be satisfied when all this is obtained by a court epilogue and when those who have committed abuses will be held accountable and held to justice. The newspapers and headlines of the large abuses in the Stock Reserve Directorate are filled with the fact that the lease was paid for goods which were not either of the appropriate quality or the corresponding quantity, then that the lease was paid for goods which were not subject to constant control, then that, of course, different conditions and quantities of goods were shown frequently than they were established. Here are also mentioned double pathos in silos and the exchange of goods between warehouses, when control is announced then one warehouse lends to another warehouse goods, then sells goods in a situation where prices on the market have increased, purchases when prices on the market are lower, etc. So all that's been going on with us lately, the war, the sanctions, the isolation, the robbery privatisation, the negligence of the state, the absence of the work of the state authorities, it's given wind to those who have dealt with these affairs in an illegal way. Of course, I won't look at everything from the whole point of view, there have been those who have done their job in a very correct and honorable manner, but unfortunately to a lesser extent. Whose responsibility is greatest? In addition to the fact that the state has not regulated this area in a timely manner, responsibility is primarily for those who managed the Stock Reserve Directorate. I can't see, and I've been trying to get that data, whether someone's been seriously responsible for their troubles so far, or for abuses. Minister, you may have that information. I didn't get that information. As a result, regardless of the text of the law itself, there is no particular objection to it, there is this fear, because we have often passed good laws, but yet these people who have long been networked in a system of corruption and crime have always found opportunities to continue to work in ways that were not in line with the law. That is why we will pay special attention to the application and implementation of this law, and the supervision of the work of the Stock Reserve Directorate, as I say, the decades-long negative experience points us to it. What is important for our citizens to know, that commodity reserves are really an important segment in the stability of a society and economic stability in terms of supply, etc., because they cover agricultural and food products, then products that are important for human health, for animals, means medicines, medical means, veterinary means, for the work of mail, telecommunications, railways, defence of the country etc. Our main regret that this law should have come much earlier to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it is good that we are harmonising both legal solutions with the standards of both the EU and the World Trade Organisation, because it does not matter whether the impulse is currently for the adoption of this law, because I know that the working group has long done the draft law, and that it has been updated and that it seems to me that a good text of law has come to the Assembly, but usually, our citizens still have this negative perception, that all of those standards that we accept from the World Trade Organisation and the EU, have been imposed on us, that they are against our interests, which is primarily due to negative experiences regarding the status of Kim, and the arrest of war criminals. But what we as right-wing Europeans want for a thousand times to repeat to our citizens is that this kind of standard and positive pressure from the EU and the World Trade Organisation is in the deepest interests of all citizens of Serbia, and it is good that many of the solutions that exist there are also applied in this law and that, in addition to emergency or wartime conditions and market supply disorders, add another life situation, which is an elemental accident and what has been the subject of mandatory storage and storage, in terms of commodity reserves, which includes both oil and oil derivatives, which is normally a requirement of time. As for the Economic and Technical Co-operation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, regardless of what was concluded in 2009, it has so far produced visible results in its practice. This is an Annex or an amendment to that agreement, but what we think is very good and what we gave support to in 2009 and support to Annex 1. The agreement is to see that the Belgrade-Borca Bridge is doing a great deal, that the procurement of equipment and scanners for the Customs Administration takes place as planned, as well as the development of Project B for the Termo Power Plant "Kostolac", which is of vital interest to the Republic of Serbia. When I mentioned getting a scanner for the Customs Administration, I asked a question in this regard several times in the National Assembly and I would ask the minister to pay attention to what I am about to say. At the time of one of the major crises, during the customs war between Austria and Serbia, Minister of Finance Lazar Pacu, in addition to a series of unpopular economic measures that are largely similar to those of the economic measures taken by the current government, which we have advocated long ago, has carried out better customs controls. We have one in customs, also similar to the stock reserves, one closed system in which we have no insiders and no external customs control. We've had internal control, and like a stock reserve, it's been going on for decades. People are extremely well-bound and networked and despite the fact that many goods pass without customs duty, many goods pass both at a lower customs rate and who suffers the most, suffers the RS budget. So I asked the government -- what will the government do at a time of great economic crisis that will continue to pour more funds from customs into the RS budget, and also to curb a large degree of corruption and crime that is indisputable? As regards the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of China, I will mention good projects such as the construction of the Obrenovac – Ljig, Pojate – Preljina and the Regional Road Novi Sad – Ruma and I mentioned earlier to the Termo Power Plant “Kostolac B”. We will also give similar support to the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation, which is a state agency and which will enable and create good grounds for connecting the two countries in infrastructure, energy projects, in particular the hydroenergy sector, industry, agriculture and the food sector. Finally, since the former SFRY was one of the few countries that produced chemical weapons because it had equipment, capacities and experts and since we were one of the signatories of the Convention on the Ban of Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons, after confirming that convention it was important to increase the reputation of our country in the world, in the democratic part of the world, of course we will also support this type of proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26773	Thank you. The word came from MP Aleksandar Senic, representative of the MP DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26774	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister and Honorable Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the need for a new Stock Reserve Act is undeniable, but this bill also has significant shortcomings. First of all, there is no principle of incentive and security of continuous production, primarily agricultural products. Furthermore, there is no obligation to adopt a long-term and medium-term stock reserve maintenance plan, except oil and oil derivatives, and neither is the area of mandatory private goods reserves, which is one of the conditions for EU membership. The principle of incentive and security of continuous production is, with the principle of supply and stability, the principle of market business and the principle of good business attention, one of the necessary principles for the establishment of goods reserves, above all on the market as Serbian, where there is a dominant impact of certain market participants, not to say – the formation of cartels and oligopol. We can look at how it's done in the EU. The European Union has planned quantities of products marked A, B and C. "A" is the amount needed by the EU, which is spent in one calendar year or in one specific period of one year. "B" is a reserve that is formed if there is a disturbance in production, and "C" is the amount that is excess and must be derived from the EU. How does the EU regulate the market? By the fact that there is a system of safeguard prices for quantities A and B and if someone exports quantities from the EU that fall within quantities A and B, it is required that the price difference between the one charged and the one that is the protective payment into a particular fund. Also, in order not to remethyl the market with remethylation, there are so-called so-called imports. The levies. When imports of certain goods at a price lower than the EU price, the importer is obliged to pay the difference between the import price and the market price also in the fund. The funds of the fund are then stimulated to export the amount of C, and primary agricultural production is also stimulated. There's no such thing in this law. It may not be the purpose of this and this law to regulate this type of market, but it is necessary to regulate that market in Serbia. I think it is necessary to establish a system of safeguard prices, as exists in both the EU and the United States. In the United States, there is an association for the granting of SSA goods credits, which guarantees agricultural producers a certain price of their products. It is even possible that they sell their products in advance and charge the goods they are about to produce, and in the event that the price of the goods that they will subsequently produce is higher than the one they have charged, they can sell it on the free market and then repay the credit to the Association for giving the goods in cash, not through the delivery of the goods. How is the market regulated in Serbia? By forbidding, for example. The export of sunflower last year, when the price is high and when our agricultural producers cannot achieve the highest price possible, because the domestic market and the price of edible oil on the domestic market are kept, and on the other hand, when there is too much offer, so that the state does not protect agricultural producers and does not buy, such as this year, excess mercantile corn. I remind you that the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has concluded that it is necessary for the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate to purchase an additional 150,000 tonnes of mercantile wheat and 200,000 tonnes of mercantile corn, at prices that were more than marketable at that time, but it turns out that these prices, recommended by the Committee on Agriculture, were also marketable. Here's how. In the harvest, the price of wheat was 15 to 16 dinars. The Republic Stock Reserve Directorate purchased barely 60,000 tonnes of mercantile wheat at a price of 20 dinars. Today, the price of mercantile wheat from VAT is almost 21 dinar. We cannot deny the existence of cartels, oligopoly or abuse of dominant influence on the market of certain market participants. The question also arises – is it necessary to provide external trade activity for the Stock Reserve Directorate? What would that mean right now? Instead of coming to the Minister of Agriculture and the First Vice-President of the Government, I don't know if they were with you, but I suppose that since you were in charge, you were certainly involved in this problem, and since we know that the price of the sunflower in the environment was $380 per tonne, which automatically means that we had a real market game on our market, that the price of sunflowers this year was supposed to be between 33 and 35 dinars per kilogram, with the introduction of the possibility that the Stock Reserve Directorate has an external and commercial activity, that it could also export a certain amount of goods, which we could definitely regulate the market and break down the cartel or oligopol or whatever was already formed on our market, by buying certain quantities of products at a higher price, which was definitely misuse of market positions agreed. I'm worried about one more thing. I looked at the 2014 budget proposal and now I'm doing an analysis. The 2013 budget law envisioned 5.5 billion dinars for the Stock Reserve Directorate. The budget rebalance reduced the amount by some 1.5 billion dinars and amounted to 3.6 billion. With next year's budget, we barely have three billion, which means we intend to continue to protect those who abuse their dominant position on our market. Last year's Stock Reserve Directorate purchased mercantile goods worth about five billion dinars, most corn. I remind you that the price of corn was 29.7 dinars per kilogram. This year, the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate did not buy any pounds. What's the consequence? We have the worst set of mercantile wheat in this century. By the estimates I've come to, 300 thousand acres of mercantile wheat has barely been sown, and that's the wave from the attic, so, undeclared and weak pliableness, which means we'll also have a reduced yield, and also a poor quality. What worries the most, if the area under the wheat remains on those 300,000 hectares, is that with the average five-year harvest of 3,500 tonnes per hectare we will be forced to import wheat next year. Because if 300,000 acres gives birth to 3,500 tons, that's 1,050,000 tons. Serbia's annual demand is 1,100,000 tonnes for human consumption alone, plus livestock nutrition, plus what goes to the seed wheat processing centres. So we'll be forced to import 200 to 250,000 tons of mercantile wheat next year. What kind of government policy allows Serbia from the record wheat production we had this year, I remind you, nearly 3,000,000 tonnes of wheat was produced this year, we are coming into a situation that next year we will potentially have to import wheat? We have not imported wheat in this century at all, except for the processing and processing of seeds. Furthermore, in order for this and this problem to be resolved, I consider it mandatory to adopt a long-term and medium-term stock reserve maintenance plan, and besides oil and oil derivatives, there is no obligation to adopt a long-term and medium-term plan. We just heard Mr. Minister say that it has never been brought before and that the policy of the stock reserves has worked. Well, it's a bad policy. Here, we have the consequences that, potentially next year, we will be importers of mercantile wheat. Two years ago, we were the ninth in the world to export corn. So in 2011, Serbia was the ninth in a quantity of corn exporters. Here comes the situation that only two or three years after that result we have to import wheat. I think this is a catastrophic policy and a stock reserve in the area of agriculture. Also, this law does not provide for the regulation of the area of mandatory private goods reserves, not a single sentence mentions it. This is a necessary condition for EU membership and I believe that this law should or should contain those provisions, because we will obviously be forced to change or pass a new law on commodity reserves anytime soon, if indeed the plan is for Serbia to become a full member of the EU 2020. So, once again, this year we have one three billion dinars in the budget for the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, and this law also provides for the purchase of various equipment and goods for the needs of railways, mail, telecommunications, defence and energy systems. What will be left for the purchase of agricultural products? The pronunciation that is dominant in this government, that it is all a stock market and that should not be mixed in market relations, has been overcome, completely overcome. The system of protection prices is what works both in the EU and in the US. The stock market and the price formed on the stock market occurs at the time when surpluses occur, and we are in a situation that next year, I repeat, we will not be able to produce an adequate amount of mercantile wheat for our own purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26775	Thank you very much. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26776	It is true that some countries also have private goods reserves. That, for example, has Switzerland, where certain economic operators can create an obligation to have a certain amount of goods. We are simply not in this situation to put additional burden on businesses and that they are creating stock reserves for the needs of the state. In this economic situation, this solution is simply unrealistic. Also, we cannot give the stock reserves the opportunity to export goods and deal with external trade, because the stock reserves are not a market participant. Once again, it is precisely specified by this law in which conditions can be intervened with goods from the stock reserves. Therefore, only in case of market disturbances or to ensure adequate stability under emergency or emergency conditions. In the case of the sale of goods from the stock reserve, this seems to be through a public ad, completely transparent, by public competition, but the stock reserves cannot export goods and deal with any commercial activity, and thus participate in the formation of prices on the market. What I agree with you is that we are not all happy with this budget that has been set for the stock reserves. We absolutely believe that more funds should be allocated, but this is in line with the economic and financial opportunities of the state at the moment. This will not affect the stability and supply of the market, there will be sufficient quantities of goods, primarily agricultural and food supplies, to intervene in the event of market disturbances, but we believe that more resources would be needed for stock reserves in some budget projection for next year. As for the ransom, it was also true that it was the idea to buy out more wheat and corn. We bought as much money as there was. So 59,000 tons of wheat was bought at a price of 20 dinars. Then the price on the market was 16 dinars. The producers weren't satisfied with this price and that's also a fact, but it's again consistent with these possibilities. Last year, the export of sunflowers was banned. Unfortunately, it wasn't a good decision, I can say that now, for a few reasons. First of all, we've got problems with those companies that've hired to buy sunflowers with us. It's not just about the sunflower, it's about the sugar tail. On the other hand, the decision does not conflict with the standards of CEFTA or the World Trade Organisation, as such a decision may be made in certain periods if it has a limited duration. That measure lasted three months. When we established stability on the market, that measure was withdrawn, but I agree it would have been better if we hadn't brought it in then. It was a reflection of fear that we would not provide stability on the market with certain products, primarily oil and sugar. As far as protection prices, rules and standards are concerned, they do not allow one such provision. The law has been passed by both EU and World Trade Organisation experts. This is the law we've been working with. A few things you mentioned, in principle we might agree, but they were simply not subject to the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26777	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26778	I can't help but take the opportunity, speaking of sunflowers, to ask a question. Since the price of sunflowers is now lower by about 50% compared to last year and you yourself admit the mistake because export is banned at that time, whether the price of edible oil will be reduced, it does not have to by 50% because the other costs of production are certainly not lower by 50%, but whether the price of edible oil will be reduced by e.g. 25% or 30%? I don't think they will, at least they don't show on the shelves in the store, which again confirms the abuse of the dominant position of certain participants in our market and the inevitable need for the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate to have a minimum double budget compared to the proposed one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26779	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26780	I really don't know what the price of retail oil is going to be, but one and another fact needs to be considered. Last year, the price was 460 to 480 euros per tonne. This year it fell to 300, 330 euros and less, even less. Everyone has to bear the risk of some of their own production whether it's sunflower, apples, raspberries. We have to finally get used to people, there's nothing that's safe, there's nothing that's secure. Prices are formed on the market. Last year was an ideal price for manufacturers. The perfect price and the people have earned it. This year they leased, counting that the price will be similar to this, large amounts of land at more expensive prices than we normally have this year's price, is invaluable for them. We can't order, it would be logical what you say if the price was below 100 dinars of oil. They're in the conversations we had with them, saying that's how it's gonna be. It is true and we looked at large retail facilities, that price is a little lower than the one that was last year, although the price of the sunflower was significantly higher. Logic says the price should be at most 99 dinars. I didn't see a liter of oil was 99 dinars. I didn't see it anywhere. That oil that was 139 dinars last year, at the price of a 460-euro sunflower per tonne. But the state can't affect those prices. We have six large oil producers. Whether it's little or much, it'd probably be better if there were a lot more, but at this point it's reality. Again, it's not ours whether there's a monopoly or not. There is a competition protection commission that will say that, but I fully agree, that at this price of sunflower we had this year, the price of oil should be significantly lower than it is now, but we are powerless to do anything about it. We can't order anyone and we can't say, put down the price of oil, because you bought a 280-, 240-euro sunflower per tonne.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26781	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26782	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, today's set of laws is practically made up of the Stock Reserve Act, but also of a law that we may be less concerned about today, the Chemical Weapons Act and two agreements. Each of these legal proposals is, in fact, very important in its area. I will rely on my previous speakers that we have not had the Stock Reserve Act since 1992, but obviously there was no political will of the previous governments to pass such a law. At all, we are not asking why this has not been done so far, and it is necessary to ask the question, because it was obviously appropriate for some not to arrange this area, especially for agricultural products. Obviously, no government had enough strength until this government came, which put this proposal united, together, as the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Energy and the protection of the environment. Why am I saying this? Because, above all, all parliamentary groups should support this legislative proposal, on the one hand. On the other hand, I will refer to the discussion in agricultural products. We had an elementary accident last year that had an emergency situation in the earlier classification, which is drought. When such situations arise, the government as an executive body must make certain decisions. At that point, it considered it appropriate that certain strategic products should no longer be exported. Of course, certain suppliers, especially from EU countries that are used to our Serbian market, immediately saw this as an end to economic co-operation. It's hard to go back to those markets, but at that point it was the only real decision, for the simple reason we had a consolidation of funding that had no opportunity to intervene on the market. If we want a market economy and if we want to behave responsibly as a state to our citizens, then in such emergency situations we must also make decisions responsibly in terms of strategic products. This law on commodity reserves, which we first talk about, includes not only energy, we will specifically talk about it because for the first time we have oil and oil reserves, but includes agricultural products, includes products that also refer to the pharmaceutical industry, medicines, of which practically live a lot of the non-productive sector in Serbia, such as health, education and as such sectors simply cannot function without such strategic products. Why are we now talking about the case we have for the first time, supplying and editing the area of stock reserves in emergency situations, in certain elemental accidents? Because now we can tie it closely to the terms of climate change that, as you can see, are becoming more and more unpredictable. In this sector, practically, the stock reserves represent not only an instrument not only of economic stability but a good segment of the creation of the essential budget of the Republic of Serbia that we ultimately have to plan. It is very difficult, then, at given times to transfer the budget so that it can be sustainable. That is why it is very important that the first attempt to do so is finally made in this area in an extremely responsible way. What needs to be welcomed is this transparency that I think we have for the first time. All that we have heard: inadequate availability of goods reserves, wealth of individuals, individual groups of interest we have had in the past, we are now trying in some way to reduce to the least possible measure, i.e. to totally try to get rid of as possible terms and ways of business in Serbia. What's important, which is that for the first time, the Directorate should also prescribe a certain part of data protection. We are on a committee in whose jurisdiction is practically this law, we had the opinion of one Committee on European Integration, that Articles 7 and 12, based on the opinion of the National Data Protection Agency, the Stock Reserve Directorate needs in some way, that some of the information that is of public importance, which simply represents the country's strategic decision, which is a matter of commodity reserves, must in some way be strengthened in this legal solution. So we'll probably have as an amendment committee on Article 7 and Article 12. I think we had a little chat with the Department of Commerce and found that agreement. So we don't think there's gonna be any problem with that. For the first time, practically now in this legal solution, we have oil and oil derivatives, as one form of stock reserves that has been given a special accent through this law. After all, we believe, from the SNS, that's good. Why? Because for the first time in this law, you have every department's jurisdiction over every area that works. So far, the Stock Reserve Directorate has been wandering around in its responsibilities. Thus, when you have a strong state body that corresponds to the government of Serbia, and not controlled, normally, that by the nature of things there you can always come into a certain kind of activity of business entities, including the very Directorates that are not controlled and which benefits, legal vacuums for their business. This time it's gone. We've got a whole series of ministries controlling the work of stock reserves. What's good is that the Ministry of Energy means going to meet European directives. It meets practically the part of the decisions of the Energy Community in which Serbia is chairing this year, headed by our minister. What's important is that, by doing so, it's our obligation, of course, which will only come to pass in 2023, we have now shown that we intend to define. We may not have defined stock reserves yet, but it should not be forgotten that one quarter of the full use of energy is based on oil and oil derivatives in Serbia and now, practically, by making this new plan, this ministry makes one way to make it look in the future. It is even to be welcomed that a certain type of small fee is being introduced, since this fee should practically define certain development technologies that will appear in oil storage. After all, it is one way to open this third package, practically all directives and obligations Serbia will have to respect when negotiations with the EU are opened. What is even more important in the end is that the law we are talking about, and where oil is one of the main focusses, is practically the idea of the European Union, since the oil community in 1973, in 2006, Serbia has committed and signed the Agreement, and since 2008 it has practically begun to deal with the implementation of these directives. This part of the law practically covers Directive 119 of 2009 and we are, in fact, showing our fundamental determination to move towards achieving everything that involves accession, or joining that great community. Of course, in that accession, and in that way many decisions will be difficult, such as the moment you form your quantities of oil reserves you have to report to the European Union, but slowly with this introduction in order, after all, we have our obligations, but we will certainly have rights, and that is that certain funds will certainly be opened from which we will be able to draw as a state, to build new warehouses, which will eventually be in Serbia's own country. This is one of the ways in which this type of investment in the country itself, in property itself, in the very resources, in some way increases the country's capital itself. It's that debate when we talked about the list of state property, which was why it was good to postpone for a year, because many things are under way and some investments are under way, and they're not listed in the property. Therefore, ultimately, this law on commodity reserves is very important, especially because of our desire to join the World Trade Organisation, as one of the international organisations, which only Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina did not become members, even Russia became a member after 18 years of this international organisation. The regulation that needs to be regulated by this entire sector should be supported by all parliamentary groups, the law in this package, which refers to chemical weapons, shows that Serbia has practically ratified and confirmed this convention as early as 2000. Serbia is a very small country to deal with the SFRY at the time, although it has not been much bigger in the production of this chemical weapon, and in some ways it has always been the one that fought through certain political neutrality and that it always needs to be resolved this type of weapon, but Serbia, as a small country, has established certain obligations that it has made by signing this convention, therefore it is necessary to bring sublegal acts into line and bring them forward, which, of course, opens up a lot of space to the profession itself to give these solutions and these proposals, and that is good, because much has been given, transferred from political to this expert level and ultimately should be said and commended to this law, because there are no new costs. So we have a simplified reporting and we don't have the use of some major state resources to introduce this law. These two agreements, proposed in today's set in principle, are an Agreement with Canada, their state-owned corporation dealing with strategic and economic co-operation. First, I would say something about this agreement, given that our Committee has had the opportunity to meet with members of the Senate of Canada, who have always been very interested in how certain projects are implemented and what is good for what this agreement has finally been adopted. Because a lot of Canadian firms existed on this market with some of their projects. This agreement somehow gave way to these projects, according to the promoter, to a single hat. There has always been a question, not only of the senators, but also of the ambassadors, which is why it is now going slowly, which is why there are no more rapid activities in this economic co-operation, and precisely because such agreements must go through certain authorities, primarily the Serbian government, to pass the parliament of Serbia and through this strategic agreement, then they can function. So it can also work part of the documentation that applies to Bistrica, to certain projects, and then to certain feasibility studies that also refer to mini power plants, but that part of which they are very interested, that's the area of mining and the part that relates to agriculture itself. So this agreement isn't just about energy, it's about some of the projects that are from these two areas. Of course it should be supported, because everything that gives the opportunity to open an investment environment in Serbia, of course all parliamentary groups should support it. Finally, we have an annex contract relating to the Agreement with the People's Republic of China, which refers to the password structure, but it should be said that this annex is not only an infrastructure, so it's not just bridges, it's also the possibility of developing a travel network, but also the part of which they are very interested, and that's the part of energy, but the particular part that concerns environmental protection. So, to find new technological solutions. Now, with us on the Committee, we had one debate, and we kept asking the question, not only of the China Agreement, but of the IBRD, how can domestic firms take part in or win these tenders that are discussed by practically foreign investors, through certain banks and the part that is good in this part of the annex, that is that through this sector of infrastructure, and through the agreement of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, Serbia will have a greater security and opportunity, and companies, to be performers. Usually when a high level of competition requirements is set, that scale is why we are constantly in this subcontractor sector. This part of the deal and part of the annex should be supported precisely for this reason, which is why we have a chance to maybe through some of our domestic contractors, get jobs, which we can hire a larger number of workers by doing so and thus improving the ambience, this investment, as well as the previous agreement. I hope that, as far as these legal proposals are concerned, we have covered everything, but what we should ultimately point out, that this government has taken full responsibility for the citizens of Serbia, by proposing such laws and by setting up one totally unregulated area that has caused a lot of damage, primarily to the state and citizens of Serbia, and then to all of us individually, because this system of values that it has ruled on the market, and even in the area of commodity reserves, has shown that Serbian citizens do not have to think, not even about their country, nor what the state will think about them. Such a principle practically with the constitution of the new government since 2012 has ceased and this set of laws is one in a series of those that showed why this government will have and has success in its mandate. That's why the SNS will support this bill in the voting day. We hope that the other parliamentary groups will join in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26783	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) We are moving on to the list of registered Members of the People's Parliaments. First, MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26784	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, I will focus my attention only on the draft law on commodity reserves because it has been a full 20 years since the law that is now in force and which regulates the matter of the stock reserves was passed. Meanwhile, the circumstances in every respect of political, economic, social, to this extent have changed that it is absolutely logical for the proponent to adopt a new law that regulates this extremely important area and bring it into line with the emerging circumstances in which we live. The provisions of the new law in Articles 1 to 4 define, inter alia, the objectives and the basic purpose of the existence of the stock reserves. Therefore, conditions for education, financing and use, then, principles, business, principles and management of commodity reserves, circumstances, or situations in which they are activated as well as of which goods by nature are formed stock reserves. In particular, Article 3(2) defines the term “supply” as the supply of the population to agricultural and food products, medicines and medical products and products necessary for the life of humans and animal health, as well as strategic raw materials and materials for reproduction of special importance and of strategic interest to the Republic of Serbia, in which we see additional security for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the provisions of Article 6 of the Staff Regulations, it establishes its obligation to take all necessary measures to prevent the occurrence of material damage on goods which constitute a stock reserve and the provision of Article 7 provides that the Directorate shall operate on stock reserves in a transparent manner, except in the law provided for exceptional situations. The purchase of goods for commodity reserves shall be carried out in accordance with the rules governing the area of public procurement, which is certainly a good solution, unless the purchase of market surpluses from agricultural producers or where the application of the procedure and public procurement would lead to the disclosure of information of particular importance or strategic interest to the Republic of Serbia. In the same sense, the provision of Article 13 to sell goods from commodity reserves through public advertising and public competition, which implements the declared principle of market business, i.e. emphasises the legal position of all market participants, adds additional security to market business in the Republic of Serbia. Article 15 to 31 shall edit the relevant paper contained in this proposal of the law. In fact, these legal provisions are governed by the so-called so-called so-called law. mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum products. Mandatory oil reserves are set up to preserve the country's energy stability in emergency situations. Their formation is a direct consequence of the international commitment previously made by the Republic of Serbia, and this detail proves that this government is absolutely committed to maintaining international legal continuity and respecting all commitments made from the previous period, which is a feature of serious states. At meetings of the Council of Ministers held in 2008 and 2012 respectively, a decision was made to establish a system of mandatory oil reserves within the next 10 years at the latest, and in accordance with the European Community Directive imposing the obligations on Member States to keep minimum reserves of oil, or its derivatives at any time. In this respect, Article 17 also defines a long-term programme of gradual formation and maintenance of mandatory reserves for a period of 10 calendar years. When I mention the deadlines, I must say that I consider it a good solution in Article 18(5) where the obligation to adopt an annual reserve programme is made no later than five days from the date of adoption of the republican budget. Article 19 tax states all the tasks to be carried out by the competent authority, which is the Ministry of Energy in which a special organisational continent is formed. The provision of Article 20, on the other hand, defines the tasks which are in the jurisdiction of the Stock Reserve Directorate, and regarding the mandatory reserves, it is important to stress in this place the obligation to comply with the rules governing the area of public procurement, especially when it comes to the purchase of oil and its derivatives, as well as the provision of the missing storage space. Article 22 defines the compensation for the establishment of mandatory reserves of oil products, entities which are obliged under this law to pay all this fee are energy operators carrying out the energy activity of the production of oil products, oil trade, oil derivatives, biofuels and compressed natural gas, licensed to carry out these energy activities. I believe that it is an extremely important provision in Article 23, which provides that the energy storage company benefiting the warehouses in public property, with which the ministry has concluded a storage contract with mandatory reserves, is obliged to provide the authorised representative with free access to the warehouse as well as to put into consideration the full documentation relating to the mandatory reserves. This is especially true in view of recent affairs, already mentioned today, which have upset the local public and as regards the subsequently established large shortage of goods in the commodity reserves, although the papers were reportedly fine. In the same sense, it is also a provision of Article 15, which emphasises that if mandatory reserves are mixed with other oil reserves and keep this reserve in equal treatment with regard to obligations and reporting, that is, supervision. A good solution is also provided for in Article 27, which stipulates that warehouses are required when closing a contract with the ministry, as competent authorities, to hand over fixed funds provided for the storage of mandatory reserves. Article 30 states, among other things, that the Directorate, energy operators using public-owned tanks, as well as storage warehouses that store mandatory reserves, are obliged to place, at the request of a competent inspector, or another person authorised by the ministry, on the basis of an identification and all necessary documentation relating to the mandatory reserves, and that at any time they have at their disposal a stored quantity of mandatory reserves of appropriate quality, except in the event of renewal of mandatory reserves or of some force. In addition, they are obliged to take the necessary measures to prevent the occurrence of material damage on goods making mandatory reserves. Article 35 provides that goods from commodity reserves may not be held for or provided for by third parties to the warehouse or the tenant, as well as subject to any use, change of purpose or collection of fruits without the consent of the Directorate, which is also extremely important. Finally, I believe that the punitive penalties for the economic offense in article 39 are adequately high and will also contribute to the serious and responsible relationship of all entities who, in the nature of things, come into contact with the stock reserves. I'd like to mention one more explanation. This law introduces a special fee for mandatory oil and oil products reserves, which will provide funds for education, storage, renewal and other costs related to the operation of mandatory oil and oil reserves, which will be paid by all final customers through the price of the product. In view of the trend in oil derivatives prices in 2012, i.e. the stock exchange prices of oil derivatives, we can see that domestic trends depend on the trend in prices on the stock market, but the impact of the internal decisions of companies dealing with oil and oil derivatives is also observed. If the introduction of a fee for the establishment of mandatory oil reserves affects a more significant and unwarranted increase in the price of basic oil products, the Government may prescribe a way to determine the highest prices of basic oil products without fiscal duties in the event of an oil and oil derivatives disturbance or the elimination of harmful consequences of disturbances in the oil and oil market. On the basis of the above, it can be concluded that the biggest impact on the prices of oil derivatives on the domestic market has prices on the stock market and that the compensation will not significantly affect the price increases paid by the final customers. So that's what we're talking about, about the law, about the stock reserves, about the bill that we have today on the agenda, we're in the NS, and because of everything I've done, we're going to support this set of laws and this law in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26785	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26786	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not disputed that the Stock Reserve Act should have come into the assembly procedure because the law should define everything relating to the stock reserves. It is not disputed, we have had the opportunity to hear more than once today, that in some previous period of years and years, there has been an abuse of all that has been kept as a commodity reserve, which could, at the very least, endanger economic freedom in this country, lead to health problems. I wouldn't talk about these abuses, that's what MP Ranka Savic said, if the authorized person in front of the LDP. It seems to me that today we have this law on the agenda only because it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to establish mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives by 1 January 2023 and that is the basic reason why this bill is in the process. You, Mrs. Mihajlovic, spoke in your opening statement about Serbia's commitment at the end of last year to establish such a thing and that's good for our country's energy security. It's not a dispute for us in LDP. Article 15 of the bill states that mandatory reserves are formed at 90 days of average daily net imports or 61 days of average daily consumption of oil or petroleum products. From you ministers, we have not had the opportunity to hear about the daily consumption of oil and oil derivatives in Serbia, what is the average daily import of oil and oil derivatives. Does your ministry have that information? What's even more significant, is there a gray economy in this area, do you have estimates of how much the state loses because of the grey economy related to oil and oil imports or the sale of those? If we need to establish a stock reserve of oil and oil derivatives that binds to a certain number of days, regardless of whether it's imports or daily consumption, then the basis is that we know these parameters. I would ask you to answer that question – do you know what the average daily import is and what is the average daily consumption of oil and petroleum products in Serbia? Articles 18 to 24 are scheduled to adopt an annual and medium-term programme related to mandatory reserves and territorial deployment. It is said that funds for the formation of commodity reserves, such as investments in warehouses and accompanying infrastructure, are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, are defined as a warehouse and it is said that storage of mandatory reserves is done in the reserves of the Directorate and in the storage facilities of public-owned entities, and if this is not possible, if all these tanks are already filled, then it is possible to store oil and petroleum products in warehouses of other energy entities that have a license to store oil and oil derivatives. In the light of this bill, you wrote that the initial year for the establishment of mandatory reserves in 2014, that the cost of building storage facilities between 200 and 240 euros per meter is cubic, depending on whether the capacity for crude oil or oil derivatives is required, and that a total of 700m euros is needed for the period from 2014 to 2023 to invest in this area. That's about 70 billion dinars. If the next year's budget provides for three billion, and from 2014 to 2023 we have nine years, if the next budgets of the Republic of Serbia are projected at three billion, then it is clear that the government cannot achieve this 700m-euro investment goal. In your explanation, I'll read to you next, that storage facilities in public property will be fully used, leading to a reduction of fixed costs per unit of storage products. Also, the adoption of this law will boost the construction of new storage facilities for around 130m euros, which will affect the promotion of domestic metro-prescription and construction industries and increase employment. I'd like to ask you a question, I don't know how long you're in progress, the state of Serbia has its own warehouses. The biggest warehouse is in Smederev. The second largest storage facility for oil and oil derivatives is in Negotin, Vienna. Since it is owned by 30% of the Stock Reserve Directorate, and 70% is owned by NIS, 15 days ago a NIS notification came that this warehouse will be preserved, starting from January 1st next year. If this is the second storage facility in Serbia, if the Stock Reserve Directorate itself has 30% of the capital, the value of that, and NIS 70%, and we all know that in NIS, the state has its part, that means that it is the warehouse of the majority state. We need to start doing mandatory oil storage from next year. Then why are these warehouses in Negotina being preserved? Why does the Stock Reserve Directorate agree to the NIS to do so? I guess you don't know, it's the second largest warehouse in Serbia. There's 30 workers there. Since the Niš warehouse was built for NIS needs which is three times smaller than that in Negotina, all NIS traffic in eastern Serbia... That's true, because I talked to the workers. So, for eastern Serbia, Borski, Zaječar County oil supply and oil derivatives goes from Nis, and this is completely inert, because it can be delivered from Pančev ships to these storage facilities that already exist. We know that the state of Serbia, we have talked about this many times, always has bad arrangements for us with Russia, where the Russian state protects itself, has greater participation than we have minority, and it is always a part of the damage of our country. If we know that the mine rent is 3% and that you as minister disagree with it, but maybe you can change it the next way. If NIS doesn't need those warehouses, let the state take them for itself. If you can't already raise the mineral rent, let NIS give the state to Serbia these warehouses, because there's no need to build another. Of course, somewhere territorially it will be necessary to build new warehouses, but from here the entire eastern Serbia, primarily RTB Bor and it is completely economically invaluable to pass tanks from Nis, especially in winter, through Tresiba, instead of doing it from Negotina. If the warehouse were allowed to supply only the Borski and Zaječar County, they would be completely rebated for their production. If you haven't met, I'd like you to meet this problem, because I really don't think we can be second-class citizens in eastern Serbia anymore. I'm speaking to both Ministers. Neither the previous government, nor this government, for the time being, has any more serious investment related to the Borski and Zaječar County, if we exclude RTB Bor and all that the state has done for RTB, where even the melting room was built without a building permit which later had to be retroactively issued. When I talk about storage facilities, there's a storage capacity for gas. Do you have any idea what's going on with the Banatian Court? Is that in good shape or is that elaborated? I don't know how much you know, Minister, in the '80s, three gas power plants were built in Vojvodina. In time, they moved on to the mule because it was not economical for them. One was in Sremska Mitrovica, one was in Novi Sad, and one was in Zrenjanin. The one in Zrenjanin was 500 megawatt power and needed heat to supply Pancheva. Unfortunately, they've moved on to the mule and it's no longer possible because the gas power plant is economically invaluable. We believe that the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves, except that it has to take care of what it stores, has to take care of its assets, because if the grain is gone, that's one problem, and if the property collapses, that's another problem. I don't think the state of Serbia is rich enough to invest in some new facilities every year, adapt them because of someone's carelessness. I know, Minister, that you disagree with this mining rent and that's why I asked the question to see if it's possible for the state of Serbia, which has 30%, to give these storage facilities. This relationship that Serbia has with Russia ends up always at Serbia's expense, but now in a different way, where the Russian state and individual representatives have the right even to criticise and comment on whether our ministers are male or female. I think your government colleagues should have answered that. Because if they see us that way, we have two ministers in the government, and I think that at least half the ministers need to be female, then it's quite clear that the government and your colleagues in the government have really done nothing to protect you in that sense. As an LDP, we don't consider it normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26787	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26788	I'll try to answer your many questions. I will start from the fact that there is no larger infrastructure project in southern and southeast Serbia, except for RTB Bor, that it is not only a melting plant but also a sulphuric acid factory. What that part of Serbia should certainly have is the South Stream, as you know. It's one of the big infrastructure projects. Daily consumption is 8,701 tonnes in Serbia and net consumption 61 days is 530,764 tonnes. They're not contentious data, we have data. But something you have read, which is from the Energy Community Study, which has been done and where the amount of 130m euros is mentioned as the necessary investment in the construction of the warehouse, given that there has been a crisis, that some things have changed since before 2011 when this study was made, today's assessment on today's day of the ministry is that it is necessary to invest around 50m euros in building additional warehouses. When you mention warehouses, I was saying that there are warehouses in public property such as the Directorate's warehouses and the public company "Transnafta" and that's not a small amount, so 180,000 meters of cubic and 130,000 meters of cubic meters, so we already have warehouses in public property that we can and will use. Of course there's a story about the public calling of all those others who also today have available warehouses and we can use them at some point. When we talk about construction, what is the need, it's about 100, 130,000 cubic meters away, we need additional warehouses by 2023. When you mention 2014 and whether we will have enough money to meet all our obligations, in addition to the fee mentioned here, which will certainly exist, our evaluations and conversations and analysis that we did with the Ministry of Finance until 2023 enable us to gradually and slowly meet our requirements, with the additional fee that will be. Someone mentioned here would that mean that end-users would have an increase in price? What can be, again by some analysis, an increase is a maximum of two dinars per litre and that is something that is possible to happen in the next period. In doing so, this is estimated to be approximately the amount of projected inflation. So it's not impossible to pass without cost. That's clear. But we tried to fulfill what was most important to us. We must have certain amounts of oil and oil derivatives, so that we can react at certain times. Because we don't know what's ahead of us, whether we have it or not. So now I'm excluding all the other stories about what kind of contracts have been made, what's been going on and what's happening today and why we have to do things. I would not agree with you if it were just because it was a fulfillment of the directive. I think all these EU directives are good for us, because it may be the only way to make order in what is called not only energy but any sector in Serbia. Because I'm afraid we don't have certain obligations, so we can still stall some things that, unfortunately, as with this law, we haven't done in the previous period. Obviously, someone has to make us do something. When you mention these warehouses both Prahovo and Smederevo, they tell me here, but I don't know the details, I'll look, about the NIS letter, etc., and you'll get an official response from the ministry. What I'm told is that the Prah, of course, was bombed, which you know, is that there's both the NIS and the Army and the Directorate and there's definitely something to sit down about and talk about. I don't mind talking to NIS about everything, if they can do something, if we can use it. The question is that we are certainly minority owners of NIS and whether we will succeed or not, that's what we'll see. It's a matter of our side, whether we try, and we always will, but before we see what it's all about, then when I see it, I'll give you more information. I think I've answered all of your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26789	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26790	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, just a few observations regarding the Law on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons. In 2000, the Republic of Serbia ratified the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination, which came into force in 1997. That Convention also gained additional power by adopting UN Security Council Resolution 1540, adopted under the competences set out in Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, which established the obligation of all Member States to develop and implement appropriate legal and legitimate measures to prevent, above all, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction among non-state entities. The Convention itself, as a kind of control mechanism for the implementation of it, provided for the education of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, whose head office is in The Hague and whose all States are obliged to provide annual declarations with detailed data concerning the production, processing, use and storage of toxic chemical substances relevant to the Convention. In this respect, in the implementation of all obligations undertaken by this Convention, and in order to ensure that all entities involved in the production, storage, development and use of chemical resources that could be used as weapons are subject to a uniform legal regime of this Convention, the Republic of Serbia has passed a Law on the prohibition of the development of production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Since more than 10 years have passed since accession to the Convention, and in the meantime, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, in order to bring the implementation of the Convention into line, has made a decision, i.e. instructions concerning changes to the concentration limits in relation to which there is a obligation for domestic legal or natural persons to submit reports on the production of chemical substances relevant to the Convention. In this way, the conditions for the amendments to be intervened also with regard to the law adopted. Given that the former SFRY was one of the few countries, which had the capacity to produce and store chemical weapons, that the Republic of Serbia had consistently respected the Convention and thus gained a proper reputation in this part of the world, such changes of laws are necessary to continue with this positive trend. The amendments to the Law agree with the related domestic rules, amend the concentration limits for chemical substances for which, as an exception to the approved rule, no report is submitted to the competent ministry, no data on the plant for its production, no report on the plans for their production. The reason for intervention in the part of the concentration limits lies in the fact that the regime for the production of chemical products is being tempered, thus ensuring that domestic legal and natural persons are subject to a single regime which also applies in other States to the signatories of this Convention. Other provisions include legal and technical harmonisation and correcting detected errors in the basic text of the law. The PUPS parliamentary group will support these amendments and additions to the Law on banning the development of production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26791	The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26792	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, is simply amazing that it took 20 years to pass to have the Stock Reserve Act on the agenda. There were previous initiatives, working groups were formed, but the Stock Reserve Act was not on the Assembly's agenda. That is why I would like to commend Minister Ljajic and the Government for having this law on the agenda of the Assembly, for the strategic importance of the goods reserves. In the past 20 years, we've had wars in the environment, we've had sanctions, we've had the bombing of Serbia, a large number of refugees and stock reserves intervened, and they've allowed that stability in the supply of basic life supplies to the population and, of course, they've affected the health of our population. It all caused them to be stock reserves, i.e. stock drop and we believe that today, when economic downturns occur, it is necessary for the state to allocate more funds for the needs of the Stock Reserve Directorate. The new law proposes amendments that will certainly improve the arrangement of this area. One of the most significant changes, according to us, is the supervision that will take place in the overall implementation process - from procurement, storage, use, i.e. the renewal of the stock reserves that we have. Why is this important? For years, it has been said that there are abuses in stock reserves. A few months ago, we had a chance to see, unfortunately, through the media, I must say, as MPs a report from the task force formed by the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture, that the inspection went out on the ground and that there were serious irregularities and serious abuses. We heard today that she also reacted to the police, that a comprehensive control was carried out. We now expect both the police and the D.A. to do their job and finally have those responsible, who will be convicted and finally answer for everything they've done. What was that all about? We heard that silo control was coming to the double bottom, that we had silos that there were no grains of grain, that we had made it impossible to carry out the controls by removing the ladders. In various ways they tried to control those who were warehouses. I don't think that's good, and there's a lot more to talk about. We had media headlines, I think, in June the most where there was a lot of talk about it, but from that day on, we don't really have that much information about what's really going on with it and how far we've come. I don't want it to happen. It was shaking worse. It was born a mouse. So we were talking about major abuses, and we don't have simple information and we don't have the ones that have been discovered. That's where we need to see who's responsible in the Directorate, who's responsible for the authorized warehouses. Of course I'm giving you this criticism right now, because you've done your part of the job, and it's really commendable, as far as the ministries are concerned. Now it's time, as I said, for the police, for the prosecution, and for everything to be done for these processes to be over. I don't need to talk too much about it and call out what public warehouses have committed, who's more responsible here. This will show when the processes are completed, when we have a legitimate responsibility, i.e. Convicted persons for these crimes, severe acts of theft. I think the Assembly should be informed of that as well as of us as MPs. We know that the Directorate's report on its work has been submitted to the Government, but because of the specificity of this topic at all these problems we've faced, we believe that at least the Assembly Committee should get official information about what happened with all of this, that we know what the result of all of this is. Otherwise, we won't do anything if it remains to be run, to be noticed, that large quantities of grains are missing, that one, as you respected ministers have said, has managed to recover and that we now have in silos a certain amount of grain, but must not remain on it. Indeed, if we want these legal solutions and this law proposed today, and I say there are really good changes, it gives results, we need to move towards this responsibility, the specific responsibility of the responsible persons who have made serious abuses for an important strategic issue, and these are the stock reserves. Far be there's been some major disturbances, some major accidents. Should we then see that some of our silos are completely empty, so that stock reserves can come to a minimum that could endanger our country? That's why I'm sorry that today there are not many MPs in the hall who attend and participate in this debate, because this really is a very, very important issue. I wanted to ask you a question, but my colleagues have already asked you that, do you know how much a person has been prosecuted so far, if anyone has been convicted and convicted so far? As we heard, you said it was still in progress. What I ask you once again, although you don't have to formally report to the Assembly and report to you about it, that you still work, because we think that we are only here to help you, and that together for such important issues we should do everything we can, not that we, as MPs, learn and receive this information from the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26793	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26794	Very short. There have been criminal reports against 14 warehouses where a shortage of wheat and corn has been identified. I fully agree with you that a report should be submitted not only to the committee responsible, but also to the MPs, or to this assembly. We're also directly interested in this whole thing getting a final not only police, but also a judicial epilogue. In the end, and more than once, it's been mentioned here why after 20 years. Here, as far as I know, a task force has been formed since 2007 to pass this law. Every time the law came to the government, that government fell. I hope this assembly manages to pass the law and will not disband until this law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26795	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vesna Stepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26796	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers and members of the government, esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's MPs, is today in front of us in the framework of this joint review of a set of legislative proposals and I will refer to the proposal for a law on commodity reserves. The new legal solution will, as proposed, be revised for the first time in 20 years, i.e. to restore the legal arrangement of the reserve system in the Republic of Serbia. The supply of the population to agricultural and food products, medicines and medical products and products necessary for the life of humans and animal health is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia and for this reason the provisions of the law on commodity reserves provide that local self-governments can educate commodity reserves. Also, Article 3 determines what cases in which emergency situations provide for market stability, i.e. when stock reserves are educated in the case of natural disasters, technical and technological accidents and other situations, when a break in the basic supply of Serbia's population may occur. It is also provided for the obligation of the Stock Reserve Directorate to operate on stock reserves in a transparent manner, unless the rules governing data management, which are significant for the defence of the country, are set out differently. At that time, the Director of the Stock Reserve Directorate prescribes a degree of confidentiality of information, although another solution may have been needed to regulate data confidentiality in a different way. A special part of the law also applies to the obligation to form mandatory oil and oil products reserves. Serbia joined the so-called so-called Serbia in 2006 as early as 2006. The energy community of Southeast European countries, which at that time covered only the issue of electricity and gas, and then took over in 2008 the commitment to expand the work of the community on oil and oil derivatives. In October 2012, a decision was made at a session of the energy community in Budva to form these reserves by the end of 2022, i.e. to operate on 1 January 2023. The law stipulates that mandatory reserves are formed in the event of the security of Serbia's supply of energy and energy to meet the international commitments undertaken. The current share of oil in primary energy in our country is 27% and more than a quarter, which is why the formation of mandatory energy reserves is important. Since the old law governing that area of stock reserves from 1992 is completely exceeded, as the stock reserves can not only be a warehouse that will deliver goods in certain crisis situations, but the stock reserves must predict developments and developments on the market and react before the disturbances occur. Also, what I would give a special accent is the storage of agricultural products and mineral fertilisers. The Law on Public Storages for Agricultural Products, which entered into force in 2009, clearly introduces significant newspapers for economic operators in agriculture. Agriculture is a activity with a number of specificities, where there is a slow turnover of capital, it is poorly profitable and difficult to obtain crafts. This is the reason that agricultural operators are most often unable to bear the market conditions of providing the necessary means of reproduction. I mean, first of all, seed wheat. material for the reproduction of grain war cultures. That is why we need to have a clear orderly functioning of public warehouses for agricultural products, conditions that must meet the conditions of their use, the responsibility of public warehouses, the establishment and role of the compensation fund. After receiving agricultural products, the public warehouse is obliged to issue a trade record. In doing so, the public storage facility has created a change in the register of public records. Here we need to be more careful with the agricultural reserve so it doesn't happen again like the previous years where we sold the wheat, and in the same year we bought as seed wheat. Reproductive material. According to the Compositing Fund of the Republic of Serbia, licensed grain-culture warehouses have since the beginning of August this year been 10. We have a total of 52 authorized mineral fertiliser warehouses, and in the Mačvanski district itself, where I come from, there are five authorized warehouses. We should also be more careful when it comes to the storage of mineral fertilisers, whether they fully meet the conditions for their storage, because chemical changes in mineral fertilisers themselves occur under inadequate conditions. When we look at experiences from the region, it shows us that the system of public warehouses and trade on the stock market is gaining momentum, because as more and more modernizes and aggregates our agriculture, we need more and more public warehouses. I hope that as the ownership of the quantity of goods produced among individuals is accumulated, there will be growing interest in the stock market and in the way in which large quantities of goods are managed, and the state itself has a clear picture of the stock reserves. We also need to remember how important it is to integrate our commodity market with the world, and I believe that this will motivate people to use the stock market more and public storage. Thus, the state is fighting market disturbances and instability in all market mechanisms without any administrative measures, and one of the ways is a stock reserve. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in the voting day will support a set of proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26797	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. Thank you very much. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26799	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today at this united agenda we have four draft laws - Proposal for a law on commodity reserves, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex number 2. Agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the prohibition of the development of production, storage and use of chemical weapons and their destruction and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation. You will all agree that these topics do not have much to do with each other, and this law itself, most important at this united point, which is the proposal for a law on commodity reserves, could not be explained by one minister but needed to have two ministers present there, and it may turn out later during the debate that another minister is needed to defend this law. The fundamental objections to this law that has been made in accordance with European directives cannot be cited, but the most important issue in the adoption of each law is, how will the Government implement this law? If we have the principles of business and management of commodity reserves in Article 2 of the Law and it is said – the principle of supply and stability, the principle of market business and the principle of good business, it is clear that the government itself does not adhere to these principles in implementing its own policies. How, then, will the government prepare proposals concerning this law? Article 3 states that stock reserves are educated and used to provide supplies and stability on the market in case of emergency situations, first case, occurrences or immediate dangers or serious market disturbances and third, emergency or wartime conditions. I don't know what should happen in Serbia from this in order for the government to intervene and in some way ensure stability in the Serbian market, because certainly stability is not when the prices of basic life supplies increase by 30% in a year and with this real income for every citizen in Serbia declines. It's definitely a kind of emergency situation. For citizens' pockets anyway. I don't think there was such a reaction by the government, as there is no announcement in the new budget that such reactions will be. As we have seen in the rebalancing of 15 billion funds that were intended for the stock reserves are down to three billion, and that is how the government plans to apply this law which is essentially well written, are good principles, are good procedures mostly, but the application that needs to happen doesn't exist. Article 8's position on mandatory reserves says that the annual programme and the financial plan for its implementation are adopted by the government on a proposal from the Directorate. What plan and financial programme can be adopted by a government that twice in two years, means twice a failure of the draft budget? Miss all other funding parameters, concerning what is important in Serbia for every citizen's life. Such a government cannot even prepare a proposal for an annual and financial plan of mandatory stock reserves. Madam Minister, you have explained this section regarding mandatory reserves of oil, gas and oil derivatives. You didn't mention the introduction of a fee would increase the price paid by the final buyer. We understood everything else you said. We understand the importance of harmonising the law with European directives, with the energy community, with those agreements that we have signed. In this business, truth be told, the ministry is doing its job well and we have a good pace regarding the adoption of laws and sublegal acts. But, Madam Minister, when you speak to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs, you must say that the price of fuel will be higher because the fee will eventually be paid by end-users. It is clear that earlier in the campaign, when you spoke on behalf of the SNS, you said that the price of electricity in 2011 would be 20%, so the following year when you became minister you participated in proposing a new price that was 10% higher. Do you realize now what is the weight of performing a public function and with what attention must every promise and every word when politicians are at the highest level be said? We cannot use demagogue in the past year, and this year we are trying to show citizens that we are only telling the truth because Serbian citizens cannot forget it. We can't forget either. Because, as you have criticised the previous government, you must now expect it to return to you twice, and as long as it is in Serbia we will not be better. As long as we're counting on inappropriate means, that's how it happens. And it's not appropriate that you weren't in a meeting with Mr. Miller, but that says that our power system doesn't have a single policy. If we're talking about energy security, we need to worry about it, because when you criticize Mr. Bajatovic, citizens are afraid of being energy safe this winter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26800	Mr. Jovanovic, I beg you, leave the party bickering now. Now these laws are on the agenda, so I don't read them now. I'm asking you to talk about them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26801	Mr. Arsenović, I must ask you - how can we from the opposition criticise the government, if that is how you protect it? I'm talking about stock reserves. Mandatory reserves are oil, gas, derivatives. I'm talking about fees, I'm talking politics. If I can't talk about it, I won't talk about it today. Please make your point and don't interrupt us again. When ministers talk about everything and everything, then you keep your mouth shut. This is not one previous deputy parliament speaker, in previous parliamentary practice, has not worked in the past seven years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26802	Please, I won't interrupt you when you stick to the agenda. But whenever you step away from the agenda, not just you, but I'll warn anyone that he's stepped away from the agenda. I'm not going to advise you on how you're going to discuss the law, that's your problem, not mine, and when I discuss the law, then I'll discuss it my way. Therefore, it is not my obligation to you. But it's my duty to tell you to stick to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26803	If that's the way to silence the opposition, I accept Mr. Arsenovic and let it serve you honor. I think you should stick to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, not obstruct the Members of Parliament in the presentation. I won't talk much longer since you interrupted me. I've lost every thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26804	I have to react again. No, we're not gonna take the personal side. It's not my goal at all, on the contrary. It is your right to criticise the law in terms of what is wrong with this law, etc., what you propose and I know that it is your right and obligation to criticise the law. That's what I'm going to say to you every time you're constructively talking about the law, from your point of view. I have no intention at all, I really don't, but the dictionary you're using is inappropriate and I have to intervene. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26805	Mr. Arsenovicu, well, you assess. If you're assessing how I talk about a certain law and that's how you make decisions, fine. You'll be the opposition soon enough, so we'll see. The next law, since I couldn't finish this law what I was going to do, I'm going to keep talking about the agreement law with the People's Republic of China. Since I don't know which government representative is in charge of this agreement, I'm going to refer a question to both government representatives here. We had a debate on the Committee on Economic Affairs about the agreement concerning Corridor 11, loans for the highway, and that's a great thing, to complete this important infrastructure project in Serbia, but we are not clear who authorized Velimir Ilic to sign an agreement on construction before the loan agreement was ratified in parliament? To explain to me any of the ministers present, I'm not interested in anything else. This proposal for an agreement was signed in 2009, the Government of the DS, and I think it's good, but you don't seem to even know that you're applying and ministers are signing construction agreements before the agreement itself is ratified. As for the Law on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination, I think that this is certainly an important change that DS will vote for, because simply in 2000, when Serbia joined the Convention, we as a country began to communicate normally with the civilised world again, and we re-emerged in the international community and it was known that the fear of the then international community was that a country could develop such a weapon and that it could be used for a purpose for which it should not be. It has certainly been a strong turn towards the international community since 2000, unlike the policy that led us to the very bottom of the policy in the international community in the 1990s, the relations that we violated and all that was not good. The Democratic Party will support this legislative proposal. I'm asking the ministers to answer the questions I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26806	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26807	Mr. Chairman, I point out to you the gravest violation of the Rules of Procedure you've done, the violation of article 107, because you have violated the dignity of this institution. As chairman, your obligation may be more than anyone else in this House, while you chair the Assembly to protect the dignity of this institution. You can't put yourself in the defense of the government or any political party in moments when political groups, or parliamentary clubs that have entered here as representatives of political parties, are criticising the political parties that are now in power because of the facts that clearly speak about what they have said and what they are now doing is not in harmony with each other. So, if you expect this parliament to, as you say, speak only constructive criticism, then I'm afraid you don't understand the essence of parliamentaryism. The constructive criticism does not mean supporting projects that come from the government or avoiding telling the truth about this government, and the truth about this government is exactly what the previous speaker was saying, sticking to a topic that is on the agenda. I really don't think it's your job to defend the government from MPs. It's not your job to defend one party against another party's criticism. That is the essence of parliamentaryism. We are party representatives here, as are the ministers of the parties, and you cannot avoid the fact that in the polemics, which concern concrete legal projects, they avoid the facts that speak of these same party representatives, unfortunately, worse than they like it and than you like it. Once again, please, if you want this discussion to go the way it has been going so far, until you have done this interruption of the speaker, then stick to the strict letters of the Rules of Procedure and don't stand up as a defender of government or political parties, whose majority of you are sitting in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26808	Thank you for the letter you've said. I still don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason I've concluded that the speaker doesn't stick to the agenda. I don't mean to defend anyone here. I simply demand that we stick to the Rules of Procedure, or the agenda that is under way. We can have a different view of it. Why didn't I warn other opposition messengers? Because they stuck to the agenda. I have no reason to warn you more than others. Take it, read the stenogram, I won't convince you now. But you have the right, if you believe that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, to have the Assembly in the voting day pleaded on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make a statement? (Hope of Kolundji: Yes. ) In the day of voting, the assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26809	Thank you very much. On the contrary, I don't mind, I even think you should criticise and try to find the best solutions out of these criticisms, and if we have to explain something further or possibly add to the law. Regarding the price you mentioned, or the fee that may be planned at a maximum of two dinars per litre, I explained that before you called. That's one option, more specifically, is currently our only option to meet our obligations, and in order to have energy security. What I think you said from your presentation, and what I understood, the question really of all the issues is energy security, that we have sufficient amounts of energy and energy at sustainable prices. It is not possible to talk at all about the satisfaction of the population without talking about some investments unless we have enough energy. If there's another way, and right now, in the situation we're in, I'm not sure there's any other way we can solve that question, when we're talking about warehouses, this is the only way we're in, and that's how it's been, when the analysis rules are being done, that fits, as I said, the possible projected rate of inflation. There's one important thing here. When you talk about that price, I don't think it might be bad either... If you've paid attention, one good thing that's been put into the law is licenses that all those in the warehouse must have. Why am I saying that? Previously, many have talked about control, how control will be done, what punishments will be, etc. In the case of mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives, if someone breaks what is regulated by law, he loses his license. That license's only been lost for three years. So this company can't deal with it anymore. It's one way to try and sort out how the mandatory reserves work in the first place. It's just a little dyspression. When you mentioned this price of electricity and when you talked about what I was saying as a representative of the SNS in opposition, and what today, I'm just going to tell you one thing – and then today and today I think the EPS is still doing irrational business. The situation is better, but it is not good enough, and the price of electricity has not been determined by the minister for a very long time. So it does not determine the energy minister's price for electricity or gas, the electricity price is determined by the Energy Regulatory Agency, an independent body, an independent agency. So, in that sense, I couldn't influence or determine the price of electricity. I will also remind you that the moment the new government was formed a year and a half ago, Serbia's Elektroprivreda was in debt for over 50m euros. Serbia's electricity industry will today end its business year as positive, which you must admit is not small. This is the year the Elektroprivreda of Serbia provided and completed all planned repairs, with which she was late a year and a half ago, when the new government came and took over the work. Not to mention record production, etc., which is nevertheless, to be completely honest, partly and because of good hydrology, and we have to say that there are some things here too. So if we're talking about whether Serbian citizens will pay a higher price for oil, or oil derivatives on the market, that's something we're just going to see in the next period -- is there going to be a fee, what is that fee going to be, and what is it going to be from that fee to do? Our plan is certainly about the warehouse itself and the possibility of trying to implement this law, using another instrument, and this instrument is called compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26810	The word has Ivan Jovanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26811	I thank you for confirming my thesis that there will be an increase in price. Of course, there should be energy security for Serbian citizens, although there is no other way, and we in the Democratic Party believe it exists. We believe that you've been in debt in the previous year of about five billion and that you could separate some of those funds from the warehouses. We think credits can be used much more rationally than for hiring party soldiers and irrational projects, but that's another topic already. As for the EPS and the price, you didn't listen to me very carefully, I said you took part in an 11% increase in electricity prices. In what way did you claim that 20% would be reduced, if you knew that the regulatory body did? In what way did you claim to cut the price? How do you plan to do that if you say that the independent regulatory body changes the price? Then how could you in the campaign claim to lower the price of 20%? We all know how the price is formed and how it's brought, so there's no need to talk that way. As far as the EPS is concerned, you say it's a profit. Why do we today in the Republic of Serbia's budget get a proposal for the EPS to be in charge of an additional 100m euros in liquidity? Why did we get a proposal to owe another 100 million to the business banks, if that company is doing such a good job? As far as you're concerned, at the end of last year, you reduced the accounting value of the EPS. So, you're accounting for E.P.S. profits. As far as irrational business is concerned, EPS business is much worse today. When it comes to remounts, these remounts were arranged two years ago, a year ago, when public procurement was carried out. It has nothing to do with this government. The real truth is that the EPS today is far more overloaded by unnecessary personnel, new employees, far more irrationally spending resources and is in far greater trouble than it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26812	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26813	To start with how the price is determined. Since you know so well how the price is determined, then you should know that the EPS makes a proposal to the Energy Regulatory Agency, proposing its fixed and variable costs, and the Agency therefore measures whether these costs are justified or not. Depending on how justified they are, it approves an increase in electricity prices. So I also told you in my presentation that the EPS is still not as rational as it should be. So when it's as rational as it's supposed to be, then it won't be able to come up with some of the costs that come up today. Since you speak as you know and say – we know how the price is determined, so how is it determined by the price, except as I said, and how is it by law? The second thing, the 100 million you mention in the budget is a hundred million that the EPS will have as its own participation in the realisation of the two Kostolac phase, namely the construction of a new bloc. That's that hundred million. Actually, it's going to be 107 million dollars. That's the reason. It's not for liquidity, etc., but for that reason, because the rest comes from credit, and this first part goes as EPS. Therefore, there are no other duties. Don't talk about the loans that were taken during the time, when I have to say, your CEO of the EPS and that they haven't been realised in years at all, from the IBRD loan and beyond, where the state was giving guarantees. It wasn't the EPS that did it a year and a half ago, but it worked during the previous period. Do you know how much the EPS loan stands during your reign? Don't argue about it now. It's not good, but it's certainly much better than it was a year and a half ago. As for the remonts you're talking about, I apologize, but you're wrong. There are certain capital remonts, one that was contracted, and all the other remonts were contracted just a year and a half ago and they end up. Not to mention some other serious things we met when we came to such a public enterprise, but we will all agree that there is no public business that is doing rationally enough in Serbia today. What I'm up for is that we get to the shortest possible period of time, or there's one government decision where we're going to have dynamics and deadlines when this reformation and restructuring of all public enterprises is going to end, and by that I mean, of course, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia. I think I've answered you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26814	Thank you. The word has Ivan Jovanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26815	You answered me, but you mostly agreed to part of my exposure. When you talk about how we should all work in the interest of citizens, I agree with that, but citizens should also get the right bill for electricity. It seems to me your responsibility. They need EPS employees to be satisfied at their workplace, so they can be more productive. They're not happy because they have to do the work for the unprofessional ones you brought in. That's what I'm talking about. I think that's why EPS suffers and has big problems. Don't let us go out with specific data now, because it will be devastating for you and for your government. Because even in the tabloids, it's known that the director general's office is doing grand ballerinas. This is the efficiency and improvement of the work of the EPS, as well as of all other institutions. We, of the DS, warn of it, as well as other boastful things that can't be seen and heard in the media today because there's self-censorship and fear. But it will pass, and then it will be better for both of you and for us, believe me. What you're saying is that it's $100 million for the construction of the Bones, so it doesn't say in the budget. He's writing a liquidity loan. Take a look at the front page. I don't know why it was a problem to write it. I know, but don't criticize the MPs if they read what's in the draft budget. That's what your government did. I don't think you have communication with each other, that you're all meeting separately with Miller, but that's a problem for the country's energy potential. That's why we're criticizing you. And you didn't answer me why the accounting value of the EPS was reduced?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26816	We're done with the replicas. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26817	I'll just say a few things. Just don't talk about energy security. So it would be good if you didn't talk about energy security. The assets of the EPS did not reduce the value. The EPS capital is 10 billion, and I assume you know that. But when you talk, I don't read the tabloids first, I don't get information from the tabloids. We delivered to the Ministry of Finance that it's the Second Stage Costolac. If necessary, it will be further clarified. That's absolutely no problem. As far as the EPS business is concerned, I'm going back to that. Today, the EPS has 36,000 employees plus four and a half thousand people from Kosovo. During your director Dragomir Markovic, you know how many people are employed in the EPS? It employs 3,800 people. So it's during Director Dragomir Markovic. Whether people are satisfied or not, I believe that no one today can be satisfied with public enterprises because they need to be more efficient than they are, and that everyone really needs to do their job. And if you had taken care of all this, we wouldn't have come into a situation right now if there were three, four perpetrators in one workplace for the same job. So don't blame this government for that. It's not the new government's fault. The new government is trying to correct all the "guilty" Drines that exist from the previous period. As far as the EPS is concerned, I think the EPS has a serious perspective from the moment the market opens and from everything that's in front of the EPS today. When you talk about bills, I agree with you. Serbia's power utility had to form an EPS supply last December, it formed on August 1st. Why didn't they get along properly? This is the responsibility I expect to see from the EPS management, to show, therefore, where these mistakes were, because they were not errors in the directors of companies, or distributions, but precisely in a system that was not made in the right way. But I'm for wherever there's a problem has to be solved. But believe these other things, energy security, the state of EPS, the number of employees and everything that's been ballast for a year and a half that we inherited, believe it's not the new government, it's the government, primarily Director Dragomir Markovic. Do we need to talk about the Colubara, and everything that's been going on with the EPS? I don't think we should talk about it. There are others who take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26818	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26819	Dear colleagues, I believe that the new legal solutions under the Stock Reserve Act will have a positive impact on the security and stability of the supply of our citizens. What's good under this law is establishing multiple levels of control. If we just look at Article 3 of Section 2 which tells us about when we can use the stock reserves. We actually see essentially that we are practically in a ten year old, and perhaps for two decades practically in a special, or emergency state when the turbulence on the market is very high, so we need the stock reserves and household business with them as well. What happened in the previous period showed us that there were major abuses in the case of goods reserves, whether they were working in the field of energy, whether they were in the area of food products or in the area of medical equipment and medicines. Various lobbies have used the lack of adequate rules for easy wealth, all at the heart of our citizens. So only in the field of medical and drug medicine did we have various pharmaceutical affairs that were mirrored or in the part where we had too many vaccines, due to inadequate purchases, poor estimates, and that's what our citizens paid for. Or, in the period of 2012, when we had a shortage of vaccines for regular vaccination of children, again for various political, lobbying reasons and when the funds for this were rerouted for other purposes. In addition, this law, as I said, establishes higher levels of control, so that it provides one household business and not only when it comes to the amount of stock reserves but also about the stock reserves, about their expiry of the deadline, or about the importance. So, we have situations that due to one non-domestic business, the stock reserve should be written off precisely because of the expiry of the deadline and due to the inadequacy to be used. When we talk about medical and medicinal products in article 32, it is explicitly stressed that the storage of medicines and medical equipment can only be carried out by authorised companies for these purposes, not by other trades, let me say, organisations. Articles 36, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also allow for control by the elderly of the competent ministries. So we'll have control of the stock reserves when it comes to quality, but also quantity. In the past, it wasn't possible so we had great deficits and great losses. Article 10 is also intended to monitor, i.e. the planning of financial resources for commodity reserves, so that we believe that there will be no major turbulence and shortages of both agricultural and food products and medicines in the coming period. Stock reserves and household business are an instrument for security, supply in one country, and thus we provide not only economic stability but also existential stability of a country and will support this law in the day of the SNS vote. I'm also asking other ambassador groups to join us in order to get the state out of the crisis more effectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26820	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26821	Injury of Members 106 and 107. Mr President, there is a minister who seems to me to have been fully in line with a moderate, reasoned, civilized performance, at one point telling us DS MPs – don't talk about energy security. Now I'm asking you as chairman and as our colleague, with all due respect how can you allow an executive official to ask us who you are and don't accidentally talk about energy security. General, you know when I tell you this, I know you feel it in yourself as truth. This was crossing the line. That's where you had to react as an arbiter. You didn't react. That's what you broke the Rules of Procedure. Just because you and I and the minister know two things well, that the DS has actively, with full power, provided a South Stream project in Serbia, and that the minister has advocated Nabucco, a project that has disappeared. That's why you made a mockery of the truth here. Please respond in these situations in the future for the benefit of parliamentary life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26822	I agree in that sense that there is no need to hold back and prevent opinions. But that's not how I understood the minister. Now you can react. She was kind of called, and that's why she said so. I didn't take it maliciously at all, because her further discussion went in one well-intentioned response. That's why I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I agree, and I'm asking everyone not to call. We can't forbid it. I agree. He has every right to speak, but in spirit with the Rules of Procedure and in spirit with the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26823	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, because I think a political option, a political group is trying to set itself up in the past few minutes, a few hours, according to an old good tradition when it was in power, to set itself above the law. First, when Mrs. Minister spoke about energy efficiency and energy stability, I think it was all about the parliamentary groups, because now it's the proposal for a law on commodity reserves. The fact that someone wants to talk about what they want, it's more of a problem for the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26824	Mr. Granny, just listen to me. Please listen to me. You advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please explain what I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26825	Because you should have prevented such things, Mr. Chairman. Because you should have warned. Because a little sooner on your eyes and on your ears, the chairman, has shown that censorship exists in Serbia. If there were censorship on the second RTS program, because the DS speaker said that – we would say that, we would all say how many people are employed in the EPS, but there is someone there who doesn't allow us. Doesn't anyone here at the National Assembly allow it? And why wasn't it said? Then when Mrs. Mihajlovic said how many people were employed during the previous government, those arguments were forgotten. If you think censorship and calling on a dictatorship, and a reminder of the past, until last year by 2012, that there's not enough reason why you don't warn someone here in this National Assembly, then we really don't share the same values. I think you should have sanctioned these things in time and put this debate in a normal course, and talked about the points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26826	Time, Mr. Granny. Mr. Babic, I think you reacted incorrectly to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You saw their reaction when I warned them to talk about the agenda, and I did. I also responded adequately when it came to the minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. So there was no reason, there was really no reason to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Okay, that's your right. But you've abused it, in that sense, that you're talking about censorship now, and now I really can't accept that it's my fault, whether television is censoring or not. Please, when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you stick to it. I'm asking, would you like us to come forward in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26827	Madam Minister to respond, but fine, if I'm on the agenda. I have to start with my really big surprise. I simply don't understand how someone thought to combine chemical weapons and stock reserves in a united debate, and add a few more contracts to them. I just couldn't find a single connection, even though I was very serious about getting ready and working on these laws. But since it's in the explanation when we voted for the agenda, the silent arguments about how this point came together, I'd like to hear them, to expand my knowledge. I'm sure the arguments will be very creative. I have to start with the Stock Reserve Act, because I think it's one of the most important laws for every country, including Serbia. Its task is to ensure the security of the supply of the market, i.e. citizens, in the end line, with basic life supplies, and with medicines and medical means for human use, although I can see that here in this field there is a lot of thought, in general what is a strategic antibiotic, for example for Serbia, so how we provide it. Then veterinary medicines and funds, then industrial products, mail, railways and what is new in this law, and the novelty has, in any case since 1992, been the security of energy supply, which is of course very important and what is the topic in many countries, but also what has initiated us and directly resulted from the signing of the Law on the ratification of the Energy Community Treaty and Directive 2009/119, which is directly related to the establishment of an oil reserve security system. What is it that confuses me here? I'm confused with the budget's budget for this. I really don't see how serious we are then in our intention if we've provided these funds just for this area that's extremely expensive. Of course, this is not just a question in the field of energy, this goes into the area of the environment, and then it gets the most into that area that concerns all citizens, and we shift the price of energy to their backs that will collect. I can't say that this law came in the moment, something after this big summer affair that was opened with stolen goods, when we discovered, when the whole of Serbia discovered that 80,612,18 tonnes of grain had disappeared from the stock reserves and 49,909,55 tons of mercantile wheat, and the rest, corn. What I mean is, when we turn it into money, and we're all very interested in turning it into what's tangible and what we can talk about, because the state really is in a very difficult economic situation, it's a pity that's about 20 million euros worth. At the same time, it's devastating that Macedonia is opening this story and it says that its market is threatened by a large amount of cheap flour entering that market, which is somewhere when you compare, exactly how much it is, the damage that comes from stolen corn and wheat, and then I wonder if what's being treated as a crime in our country, and it's a felony, because what they've stolen is a commodity reserve, is treated the same way as it was treated in some other countries of France, Sweden, because they treat it as terrorism. Excuse me, undermining the security of the state, which is the objective of the stock reserves, on the one hand, and all that is happening in Serbia, is to question Serbia's international reputation. Now that you've opened that story in Macedonia, you don't have an answer there. I see Mr Ljajic, who, as minister with Macedonia, is fighting for every trade exchange, for various problems that arise in trade exchanges in agriculture, in some other areas, and on this side you have no answer to this simple question, who undermines the security of Serbia's state and why it is treated so with us in such a way. When we look at our protective mechanisms, I see that they haven't improved much in this law, they're neither much more efficient nor more effective, they're weak and they can't be applied. That's what I'm afraid of when I talk about this law. I'm really sorry that I don't have time to deal with these principles anymore when it comes to the law, we're going to talk about amendments, but these are the principles that are very important for a country like Serbia. I also want to talk about this second law – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and Destroying it. Many of my colleagues have said today that this is a very important area, although it does not work at first sight, ask the scientific institutes that have to work with these substances, ask military institutes, ask large companies, factories, plants, departments dealing with and operating under this law, and which really poses a problem that they have to report to the competent ministry for a certain time, or once a chemical agency. Another important thing that we have to worry about when we talk about is that the former SFRY was a real state, it was also apostrophysed, which had the capacity to produce chemical weapons, and, let's just say, in this case, we have to say how important it is that Serbia accepted the Convention in 2000 and passed a law that clearly adopted the rules of the game and fenced itself from chemical weapons. We have committed ourselves to establishing a verification regime for certain toxic substances contained in the Annex to the Convention on Lists 1, 2 and 3 in order to have insight into the production, processing, use and storage of these substances, in fact to have insight that they are used for purposes that are allowed, for peaceful purposes and not to go in any other direction. We made a commitment to form two mechanisms and we formed them. The first mechanism is reporting. This means that as a state, we will regularly report to The Hague in a state in this area of our country. The second mechanism is co-operation with international inspection and it is a very important mechanism because we have committed ourselves to forming and establishing a legal regime at national level. And we did establish it by the government forming the Commission. The Commission includes ministers and representatives of many areas, foreign affairs, trade, health, environmental protection, customs administrations, etc. So, one very wide body. That is why my question for Mr. Minister Ljajic – which is why in the previous law, and you remember very well the amendment we talked about, in the Law on importing and exporting dual-purpose goods, where it is very clear in my amendment that what our obligations are under this international treaty, according to this Convention. You said then – this is all right, we'll just bring it into some other law. I ask – in what law is it? It's very important for me to know, because it's something that we as a state will have to explain to the international community. It is very important to say that Serbia fulfils all its obligations and that is the most important. Then what are these changes? The changes are actually due to the fact that the Conference of the Member States has brought some innovative instructions and these innovative instructions are actually in line with what we are doing today. There are more precise concentration limits for individual legal persons who are obliged to submit a report to the competent ministries of List 2A. The second change is about harmonising terminology, let's say, what is a discreet organic substance. When I come to terms with the consensus, I must immediately say that the Committee has submitted an amendment which is also an alignment, but in this case between the unity and the plural that appears in the text, which the government has accepted and thank her for that. For the implementation of this law, the Chemical Agency was responsible, which was in that unfortunate move when the Fund was destroyed and two other agencies were practically destroyed. It's all about protecting the environment, and that's what hurts me the most. At the time, it was said – we will remove the many agencies, we will not finance them, unfortunately, it just turned out that the agencies were in the field of environmental protection and how they bothered them. That's why I think we need this agency today, and now we just see why we needed it so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26828	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26829	First of all, let me explain how these amendments and additions to the law today are combined with the system law on commodity reserves. First, the jurisdiction over this law has three ministries – the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Trade, Foreign and Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Energy, i.e. the protection of the environment. That's one reason. The second reason -- if it were a fundamental change of this law, then it certainly wouldn't be like that, then we'd have special amendments and additions to the law, but since you said that these were really not essential, they were just equations about the Convention itself, there was simply no reason to put it as special. You've already talked about how important this is and I agree with you, but you mentioned one thing, and that's inspections. We also conduct through the Ministry of Defence the training of our inspectors, and it is related and in accordance with the convention. Another thing that you mentioned about the Stock Reserve Act – and how are we actually going to do all that because there's a lot to be invested so that we have enough storage space by 2023? The assessment says this: the fee I mentioned from two dinars a year should bring six billion dinars into the budget, which will be a neutral item in the budget, so as much as it goes into the budget, it will come out and be used for storage space and within nine years we will have that space. A small addition to the fact that the price, for example, varied between 146 and 156 dinars last year, thus affecting the stock market or the movement of dinars. These two dinars I've mentioned are almost below what affects my course. It's just that you have an idea of what these two dinars are. It's one way, calculated how we're going to meet our obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26830	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26831	You mentioned two things. The first concerns exporting our grain to Macedonia. It is true that the Macedonians justified their decision to limit imports of wheat and flour from Serbia by the alleged grains from the commodity reserves went into the Macedonian market in an illegal manner, so it knocked down the price of domestic wheat and, therefore, Macedonia adopted a regulation on restrictive imports of cereals, more specifically wheat and flour from Serbia. However, when we sought concrete evidence, we never received it. The whole story comes down to the alleged grain going from here to Kosovo, that there is some mill in Kosovo that processes that grain and then exports illegally from Kosovo to Macedonia's territory. But it's all speculation, we've never been able to get exact information about it, nor do we know if this whole story is true. Of course, no one argues that there has been severe abuse. Is that grain even exported to Macedonia or is it distributed here somewhere, it's completely ethemic, the damage of 20 million has been done and we are now dealing with the consequences of that act, that is to make up for that damage and get as much grain back as possible, and where it is not possible to take the warehouses that are given as mortgages. As far as this other law is concerned, I really don't know exactly, as I recall, your amendment referred to that in one article where it says - weapons of mass destruction; you proposed to be a provision of chemical weapons. Our answer was that the weapons of mass destruction included both chemical and biological weapons and that there was no need to stress special chemical weapons. If you're referring to some law that needs to be passed now, it's a law on the export of weapons and military equipment. So, we previously passed the Law on importing and exporting dual-use goods, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26832	The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26833	Thank you. Here, I'll try to start with this last one. It's really hard to and I expect you to remember the amendment, I remember very well because I know what I wanted with that amendment, but well, we'll see when it's your law that you announce. This wasn't about putting in that term "chemical weapons," but let's not spread that story now. What I was saying about this story with Macedonia and similar stories, where we can't determine whether it was like that or not, is actually the first material damage to Serbia, then the violation of Serbia's reputation, and my whole concept story was protection mechanisms that we as a state have to do to control everything that's going on in this very important area, is what's essential. You mentioned inspections, you mentioned a lot of what, I think it's very important that we strengthen these protective mechanisms, then we can talk about it, that everyone will take advantage of the opportunity to take what they can get. To go back to what Mrs. Mihajlovic said, the fees of two dinars per litre of fuel are not particularly large, especially when we compare them with this salary increase, then people will just get as an increase in wages to give for these two dinars per litre. What bothers me terribly is that citizens will finance their own energy security. It seems to me to be moving on to the weak shoulders, really worn out shoulders, materially worn out shoulders, to citizens who really don't think they should finance it themselves, the state has to put it there in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26834	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26835	So, right now, let me say that the bonds of payment are the fees of the energy companies that have the license, among other things. So, they'll deal with paying that fee. They may not have to take those two dinars that way, do they, but I think that's enough. What I might have wanted to say is, there's no other solution right now, and on the other hand we have a situation, let's say, we had a story about the Syrian crisis or any possible crisis, we really don't have these reserves that we can have for at least 30 days, not to talk about 90 days, we're secure and we can function normally. It's not easy, but nine years ahead of us and with all this stuff that we're planning in those nine years, I believe we'll be able to talk about security when we talk about oil and oil derivatives. There's another story about some kind of power that we're producing here, but if we're importing something, then we're always pretty addicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26836	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26837	Let's get this over with. I totally understand what you're saying, we're actually saying the same thing. Of course companies will pay. Do you think companies won't transfer that to citizens? It will. When you increase VAT, it's the first thing that people in stores feel. After all, it all comes down to the back of the citizens. It seems to me that this is what we need to avoid as a state, because we really think this is a very important area, and let's open up a final story about how we're going to achieve energy security without each of the poorest citizens paying for it, at least.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26838	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26839	In my discussion today, I will refer to the Stock Reserve Act. Stock reserves are a subject that is little to talk about and becomes current only when problems with the purchase of goods arise and the price of basic goods on the market arises. That it is true, says the fact that 20 years of application of the Merchant Reserve Act, which was adopted since 1992, has really created the need to adopt a new, modern, modern law and, above all, to regulate the system of commodity reserves, but also make it more efficient and more professional, as well as the need to bring this law into line with EU directives. In addition, the old law is unacceptable for the present time as regards the organisation of stock reserves and the creation of necessary supplies. Another reason for the adoption of this law is the precise definition of the objectives of education of commodity reserves, the determination of volume and product types within the framework of commodity reserves and the regulation of other issues of importance for the harmonisation of the supply system with European legislation. The bill also eliminates the weaknesses of previous legal solutions and areas of commodity reserves in a way adapted to the conditions and needs of the Republic of Serbia. We are witnessing many affairs and abuses when it comes to stock reserves, many failures in the commission's work in selecting depositors. Controls have identified major abuses in the Directorate's purchase of goods, then fails to close contracts with companies that have no storage space at all, or silos, or have the personnel prescribed by the law. About 30,000 tonnes of wheat worth about sixm euros have disappeared from dozens of silos across Serbia. Malversions with corn have also been detected in several warehouses in Vojvodina and in the central part of the republic. The worst is, in fact, that these abuses take a long time and that the state has been damaged over a long period of time and that almost no serious control has been carried out for years. What she needs to take seriously is that this theft in the stock reserves definitely needs to get an epilogue in court. The bill prevents abuse, especially when storage and the choice of warehouses are at stake. Article 26 The proposal for this law provides that warehouses that have offered the most favourable storage conditions of a reserve storage facility in accordance with the storage contract concluded with the Directorate and under the most favourable conditions of storage are considered to be the lowest offered price of storage of mandatory reserves with the fulfilment of all other conditions prescribed by the public tender. Storage facilities in public property will be used, which will have a concrete impact on the cost reduction per storage unit, and the law will also affect the construction of new storage facilities by around 130 million dinars. The Stock Reserve Directorate deals with security, storage, preservation and restoration of the Republic of Serbia's stock reserves. The stock reserves contain almost all the food and non-food products needed to supply the population. Among them are basic provisions of life, cereals, livestock, meat processing, energy, medicines, hygiene. A special part of the law concerns the obligation to form mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives. Serbia's obligation to establish a system of mandatory oil reserves since 2006 when Serbia joined the energy community of Southeast European countries, which was related only to oil and gas, and since 2008, the work of the community has spread to oil and oil derivatives. The law stipulates that mandatory reserves are formed in case Serbia's security of supply with energy and energy is compromised and that international commitments are met. The draft law, more specifically Article 22, defines the amount of compensation for the establishment of mandatory oil and oil products reserves, the method of accounting, the way in which this compensation is paid, as well as the availability of resources from this compensation for all energy operators carrying out energy performance. We have already heard a lot today when it comes to this fee, and I must say that it is not quite clear to me what goal is being achieved by introducing this fee, or whether a final assessment has been made to the extent that it will cost the citizens of Serbia, as end-users. Then, as a problem, this bill does not provide for the responsibility of the Head of the Stock Reserve Directorate. Their responsibility has been left out of practice under the Public Procurement Act, as the supply of goods is treated as a state secret, and this may constitute a framework for abuses. Article 7. The proposal for this law provides that the Director of the Stock Reserve Directorate shall be the one who decides, i.e. the degree of confidentiality of data, documents and contracts to be concluded in relation to the operations of the management of the stock reserve. In view of everything that has happened in recent years, it is known that control in June has established that 17 silos of 77 controlled have no or no large quantities of wheat. A working group for the emergency determination of the situation of the stocks of wheat and corn in the authorised warehouses of the Republic of the Reserve Directorate identified 17 silos missing about 46,000 tonnes of wheat and about 32,000 tonnes of corn. In view of all this, the natural issue is raised – is it the best legal solution for the director of the Directorate to be the one to decide on the degree of secrecy of information or was it wiser to be the Government? In order to ensure coordination in the work of state authorities in the area of trade, finance, agriculture, local self-government, etc., the proposal of this law, if adopted, will produce the desired positive effects. A series of newspapers introduced by the Bill, as we heard from Minister Ljajic, such as the exact structure of goods, the precise definition of all stages, starts from the purchase of goods, through storage, to the lending of goods, etc., then the obligation to reserve oil and oil derivatives will help to manage the stock reserves in a more efficient and responsible way. The law certainly will not solve in an effective way all possible abuses, all those abuses that may arise after the adoption of this law, unless we establish a good system of supervision and control over the work of the stock reserves. The SPS parliamentary group, as authorized representative Zoran Kasalovic said, will support the proposal for a law on commodity reserves in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26840	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26841	Don't let it stay unresponsible. I've said it a few times, but to repeat, it's not a waste. The fee you mention will be used to purchase oil derivatives and to build a warehouse. Otherwise, the fee is called compensation, in some countries it can also be under some other name, but all the countries and the EU, but also these countries of Southeast Europe, which are moving precisely with harmonisation, that is, with this kind of Stock Reserve Act, are getting oil derivatives and thus building a warehouse. So we didn't put anything special new, but what everyone else is doing, because it's the only way. If you have any other suggestions – let me know. In the budget, money won't be any different. If we were richer, we might be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26842	The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26843	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ljajic, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, in my discussion, I would like to refer first of all to the Stock Reserve Act and ask some questions about the meaning of the adoption of this law. Are we simply bringing him in because we haven't had a law since 1992 or are we really bringing him in because the stock reserves are a strategic matter for every serious country? It seems to me that when we look at the 2014 draft budget, it is not so and that the budgets provided for the stock reserves are very modest. I think that's why we disqualify the adoption of this law and its full application. If we really want to take care of the safety of our citizens, then it is a fundamental level of decency to provide adequate resources that are necessary both for energy efficiency and for life-forms and for medicines and for all that every serious country must have at some minimum in certain situations. Unfortunately, the budget that is scheduled for next year does not put trust in it. I think he's very modest. I don't see how these funds will provide gas reserves or basics, let's say, grains without talking about drugs or anything else. Also, for the functioning of the stock reserves, it is a question of centralised, financial management and realisation, and of the sales of goods contained in the stock reserves, the arrival of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, how stock reserves can work in one efficient way if they do not have their own account, have no own income and do not have the funds in them. Is it possible that there is no trust between the goods reserves and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? This brings us back to one situation, such as the Public Procurement Act, today we are talking about 370m euros in public procurement savings. Are those savings or are they projects that haven't been realized? If these are savings, Mr. Ljajic, then with the 370m euros you have the means to replace that you have an adequate budget for the stock reserves in the following year. In some ways, you should make sure that the stock reserves do not have one hypocritical relationship with our citizens and with the people who do the production. If the stock reserves intervene only when the prices of basic agricultural products are high, and when they are low, we do not have that intervention and we do not have a ransom for the need to preserve our own production, then it is a question of the purpose of the existence of the stock reserves. We should be more careful to discuss this. We can't say when we have extra products that it's stock, and when we have a shortage, that we're keeping the standard of our citizens and then we're closing the boundaries for exporting products. These are some things that we should be honest with ourselves at some point and sort of pass some laws that are applicable. This law will not be applicable with this kind of relationship. The second thing, one of the members of the law foresees building storage facilities. I would recommend that you first sit down with Mr. Radulovic, Minister of Economy, make one cadastre, one database of what is contained in the Fund for Development, in the Privatisation Agency, in the enterprises in restructuring, what is there from storage facilities that are burdened with mortgages and whose state is the principal trustee. First, do it, see what's out there as a resource, whether these warehouses can turn into public warehouses, and if that can get you into a situation to stop turning agricultural land into building land. It's one responsible relationship to ourselves. I'm sure if we just did a restructuring company analysis today, that there are huge storage facilities that are completely enough for this job that we're talking about here today. But you have to talk about it inside the government. The easiest way to say is – these funds will be in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and we will finance the equipment of the warehouse from the Republic of Serbia's budget, or we will come up with funds in such a way as to raise some prices to some energy or somehow collect that income from citizens or from licences, as the Minister said. Let's try to see what existing resources exist in our country. We had a country that was much bigger than this one now. I don't remember that during the period when it was a country that had more than 20 million inhabitants, we had a lack of storage capacity. In addition, in the previous period there was a huge investment cycle in storage facilities. You have newly built storage facilities throughout Serbia. Has anyone seen that? The other thing to ask as a question is not just whether these infrastructure facilities are equipped in an adequate way, what about quality control of products entering these storage facilities? Are those standards we've been controlling enough? Is it enough to have only a basic analysis of the grains that are found there, where we measure a hectolitre, moisture, etc.? Is there any sort of classification that can meet the minimum of some standards that are happening today in countries around? Should our cereals culture be the only ones to satisfy the basic parameters, and then we will improve and put them in a situation to produce flour or I don't know what else? What about the drugs? Is it because of the Public Procurement Act, if due to the inadequate relationship of the stock reserves, we don't have the basic medications. You can't get into a situation at VMA today to do bone marrow transplants because there are no vaccines to receive donors. As a country, we have entered a bone marrow transplant program, saved huge resources for both people and the state, and we are unable to obtain vaccines waiting for patients to transplant the bone marrow there. It lasts eight or nine months, on VMA, because someone at some point decided to centralize everything and get all the funds in the budget. What is the mistrust of the institutions that exist in this country? Why doesn't someone trust the stock reserves? Why doesn't someone trust VMA? Why does everything have to be in the Republic of Serbia's budget? Why are there no independent institutions that do this work in one responsible way? My God, there's a criminal law, so if someone breaks it, it'll fit, go to the place where it's necessary. But such fear is blocking life from itself. The purchase of stock reserves today is some state investment in some new production. It's not just the mere fulfillment of the form that we have some pounds in our state. What are the gas supplies, Mrs. Mihajlovic, for our country? Are we able to hold out tomorrow in the event of some gas dispute, to endure three days without gas delivery, that we don't have heat? It's too serious. Stock reserves are a strategic national matter and we must not allow it to be a mere form. With this law, we are trying to fill out a mere form, and in the budget for next year, we are forecasting ridiculous funds to ensure the functioning of the stock reserves. We're talking about a long-term operation plan for the stock reserves. Well, if it's a long-term plan, then we expect that in three, five or ten years we will have one stable operation of the stock reserves. If we start from the previous year to reduce by more than 50% the amount of funds allocated to the stock reserves, then somewhere we are not in the same positions and we are not thinking well-meaning, first of all, about our own citizens. I think the level of responsibility within the government of the Republic of Serbia, within the parliament, must be much higher. I think you should have sat down with the Minister of Economy, with the finance minister, to make a serious analysis of what it is that exists as a resource, to make one cadastre, not to say the information system of the existing, to draw some conclusions and say, yes, we have that, we miss that, and we say - the government will make its own regulation to decide how much to buy, when we're going to sell and how it's going to happen. The second thing, the story of the abuse of goods reserves, well, gentlemen, is it abuse or was it preparation for the new season of buying agricultural products, these are now policy issues. Whether someone did it with the consent of the Directorate or did it without the consent of the Directorate, it's the same thing that needs to be separated. The question is do we have these stocks on this day, do we have enough wheat, do we have enough corn, soy soy, not to say everything else? Simply, it's a public larma that's trying to create seemingly some concern about the state of the stock reserve, and then reduce it by more than 60% of the stock reserve budget next year, it's at least irresponsible. That's why I think this legislative proposal should be completed, first of all to bring it into line with these two ministries that I've talked about, and with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, see what's out there from the resources, and then talk about what we're going to build from the warehouse. Today, in every village, you have an abandoned pump that Serbia's oil industry will no longer use for economic justification, but the fuel incentive that farmers get is divided into the city center, by several thousand liters of people taking over, blocking traffic, because someone can't think about there being some resources where such things can be done. So it takes a lot more attention in this than it's just a mere form that we need to fulfill and have the law. The law itself is something that we adopt not because of the EU, but because of ourselves living here, but the sustainability of this law depends on everything else that should follow it. If that's not there, this law will be inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26844	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26845	Where to go - several seemingly, hypocritical, mere formalities etc. I don't think I'd agree with you. The Stock Reserve Act is a system law. It's too bad it wasn't brought before, we all figured it out. Not to go in now on the grounds that since 1992, who's to blame, why he's guilty. We now have a serious law in front of us, almost historically in some of our segments, especially when we talk about oil and oil derivatives. You may not have noticed when you were reading, but we're not talking about gas reserves here. If you've been paying attention to the directives and the law, there's not a single sentence here that you have to talk about strategically mandatory gas reserves. So the strategic gas reserves will be regulated by the energy law. We'll do it because we're currently making changes and additions to the law. Right now we're talking exclusively about mandatory oil and oil reserves. For your information, there's plenty of gas in the Banatian Court. It's the commercial gas reserves for the scariest winter, if that's what it is, or possibly the gas crisis in a month, and we'll just bring it in strategically. So that's one thing, just so you know when you're talking, because a few times you're referring to the law and you're talking about gas. When you talk about the budget, unfortunately, it's our reality. Again, I don't want to go back to how the money was spent and why we're in a situation where we have the budget that we have, but you should also know that three billion in the stock reserve budget plus six billion that I've just mentioned, if we're talking about fees from which oil derivatives should be obtained and warehouses built. When we talk about the storage space, I'll remind you, it already in large part exists right now in the "Transnafti" and in the Directorate, and then slowly in the years ahead what we need will be built anyway. I think that would be all for now. So the gas's enough and it's going to go through the law. You mentioned heat at one point. So there's plenty of mules. What this government has done, which none of the previous has done, is that it has begun to solve the issue of mules, loans and this vicious circle that exists between the heat, the "Serbiagas", the Directorates, etc., because it has to stop at one point. You can't just take it from the Directorate and never come back. So, a lot of things are going on. One is the laws we bring, and on the other hand, and what is real life and what we inherit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26846	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26847	Of course, we're not satisfied with the resources provided for the stock reserves either, but these three billion are not the funds that are meant to provide oil and oil derivatives, which fall under mandatory reserves, and that's another story compared to this. These three billion and eight hundred, respectively, are specifically intended for the purchase of agricultural and food products and other products stored in commodity reserves. Therefore, these funds are not used to provide mandatory oil and oil reserves. You mentioned another important question. I agree that the funds are not enough, but we will be able to ensure as much goods as possible to prevent any shortage or to prevent any disturbance on the market, or the state will intervene from the stock reserves in these situations provided for by this law. As for storage, here's some information that's very interesting. In 1992, there were two billion dollars in stockpiles. Last month's stockpile balance was $185 million. In 2000, we had a million tons of wheat in our stock reserves. Today we have 204,000 tons. We had enough storage space because it was all state property, or public property. There's been a privatisation. A large number of agricultural combinations that had silos were privatized, went into private hands and the state remained with one single silo owned. Everything else has to be rented. It's an unsustainable condition. I said and I repeat the fifth time, 460 million of us are only out to rent that warehouse space. It's completely irrational. The whole system will collapse unless we change this and provide enough storage space owned by the state. How can we do that? One of the ways is that you mentioned, to see what the state owns as a resource, which can be in the storage function of goods from stock reserves. Another way is to collect from the claim, and the value of these claims on today is 95m euros from bankruptcy proceedings and the value of court disputes on today is 54.5m euros. Since we won't be able to take those funds now, and we have the mortgages that the warehouses gave, we're trying to put it into storage function, or the state to be the owner of that storage space that's going to be used and that's going to largely prevent what's going on right now. The former Yugoslavia had enough storage space because it was all state property. We are trying to recover some of that in ways that I have already said or using these resources that are now in power or owned by other state institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26848	Right on line, MP Siniša Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26849	I thank you for your answers. I'm sorry, it's a gas energy to me, no matter what you say it isn't. It is one of the most important energys and the strategy of the Serbian state and the arrangement with the Russian Federation around energy is our national decision. I am sure that the destruction of the reputation of the national company "Srbigas" through the media gives citizens a single mistrust and creates a single dose of concern. It would be good for you to talk to each other and stop being a practice. This is a good thing you said there was gas in a month. I'm sure Mr. Miller won't be mad at us, and he'll be there in the next few months. The first month of autumn has passed relatively with high temperatures and that's a good thing. Mr. Ljajic, I think that 15 or 16 privatisations have been cancelled at the Privatisation Agency and there was some green pulse rule by the Ministry of Mladjan Dinkic in the previous period and there are huge storage facilities in these companies. I'm sure you can determine that with Mr. Radulovic. In addition, there are a lot of loans approved by the Development Fund, which are mortgages, which are certainly non-refundable, where there are also large storage facilities. I am sure that in one good analysis, the state can have a sufficient number of storage facilities and, on the other hand, put economic operators in office, hire some people there and have serious and responsible stock reserves. What you did not answer me, and what is an acute question, was first of all a matter of supplies of drugs and pharmaceuticals, and what is the relationship between the goods reserves and the state of Serbia towards the sector? It's something that I've apostropheed specifically, I've given you a concrete example and I've asked you if it's wrong not to plan well in the stock reserves, is it the law on public procurement? These are things that are important for our citizens to have basic medications in hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26850	The word has a folk MP, Nebojsa Beric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26851	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the previous Law on Stock Reserves, which was passed exactly 21 years ago, may not be a necessary target, but when trying to analyse and determine the effects of this legislation, we come to the frantic fact that the law so far has not been consistently applied, but that the behaviour of the warehouse and the companies that should have kept their state property directly mocked both the state and parliament, which has been passed by such legal solutions, because how they interpret the fact that only partial checks of the stock reserves determine the shortcomings of hundreds of tons of corn and other cereals, and that certain warehouses are precisely due to the lack of trust in them on keeping, do not allow access to authorized state authorities, and therefore think to earn amnesty for, we can openly find, unscruly, unscrupulous theft. By way of derogation from the law of the current federal law on commodity reserves and sublegal acts relating to commodity reserves, there is a need for the adoption of a new law and for a thorough and transparent manner to be regulated by the area of business of goods reserves. So far, stock reserves have been viewed as warehouses from which goods are delivered under certain emergency circumstances. Modern trends in the economics sphere also suggest that stock reserves, as an institution of national importance, must monitor market developments, predict developments and respond accordingly before certain disturbances occur. One of the mechanisms for combating price disturbances and market instability is intervention from stock reserves. This proposal of the Stock Reserve Act after 20 years is the first time that the legal arrangements of the reserve system are revised. The bill stipulates that mandatory reserves are formed in the event of a threat to the security of supply of state to energy and energy and to meet the international obligations undertaken. One of the basic positive features of the bill is the determination of the scope and type of products within the stock reserves, as well as the harmonisation of the work of the stock reserves with European legislation. It is important to stress that one part of the proposed law regulates the obligation to form a reserve of oil and oil derivatives, bringing together a system of stock reserves in our country. If it is known that the current share of oil in our country's primary energy is 27%, or more than one quarter, it clearly results in the importance of forming a reserve of this energy, in addition to providing electricity and gas reserves, which has not been the case so far. In Article 4. The laws clearly determine the goods necessary for the stability of the state market, and Article 5 determines that the Stock Reserve Directorate is the institution which has exclusive competence for the overall operation of the stock reserves. Articles 6 and 7 shall specify the way in which it is done and which the directorates of the Directorate are in the control and prevention of material damage, exactly what I was just talking about. What happened in the previous period? The most important provisions are contained in Articles 38 and 39. The bill, where supervision of law enforcement is clearly spoken of, is said to be responsible agricultural and market inspectors, as well as the ministry in the field of energy and the finance ministry. Control must be comprehensive, uncompromising, and the inspectors who do so must be people of experience, checked and unsuspected in the practice so far. The SNS parliamentary group will support such legal solutions in the voting day and due to the intended penalties, i.e. economic offences contained in 10 points of Article 39 of the Law, because these high fines are reliable, warning the factor for all those in the stock reserve business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26852	The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26853	Dear President, honourable ministers, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have heard more than once today about the importance of stock reserves and the obligation of the state to maintain sufficient quantities of all those supplies that should be stock reserves. It also makes it impossible to abuse these stock reserves and regulate market disturbances. The question is raised on the basis of the events that preceded, whether the state is capable of doing so, because they also appeared, among other things, we recognize the problems of storage, the system of public warehouses or the control of warehouses, etc.? I must note that there is a greater involvement of the state on this subject by adopting a law on public storage for agricultural products, then by introducing stricter control over regulation, that is, by respecting the provisions of this law that we are talking about today. So is the introduction of the goods records. On the other hand, it's not good, let's just say, on the website of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, I didn't notice the annual work programme of the Republic Directorate, of course, the part that doesn't apply to the state secret. I must also point out that we are concerned about an increase in the price of oil from some two dinars, which we have already talked about, which will again come on the back of citizens. The absence of large public storage facilities, i.e. state-owned warehouses, also. As regards the very Law on Public Storage for Agricultural Products, this law defines certain conditions for certain warehouses to be used by the Republic of the Reserve Directorate and must be registered in the register of public warehouses. On the site, I saw that we have about 92 thousand tons of storage capacity of these, primarily agricultural products, so I'm asking whether that's enough and all in 15 public warehouses licensed under this law on public storage for agricultural products. We know, and what we've already read, 80 warehouses store stock reserves, and only one is owned by the state, according to the minister, for just over 17,000 tonnes of capacity. To relate to a story earlier, I think there must be a lot of abandoned facilities in rural areas in some parts of Serbia where some of the funds can be used and invested precisely in the organisation of these areas, that these are storage areas for stock reserves in state property. On the website of the Republic Directorate, I saw a little more than five billion dinars for the organisation of the work of the Republic Directorate have been identified in 2013. However, for the capital maintenance of buildings and buildings, I must say that only 248 million dinars, to bring the storage capacity of the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate to an optimal level, as it stands in the budget. I'd like to know if those funds were spent on and what they were spent on? Did we bring certain storage facilities to an optimal level? I agree that it should also be spared that in this current budget it must pay attention and that smaller funds are allocated for different purposes, but surely it shouldn't be for the area of stock reserves, which would be extremely problematic if we get into a situation, for example. elemental disasters, as Serbia gets hit every year by some elemental accident. We've had situations, which we've heard a lot about, the sale of state grains, the collection of that storage space, whatever that grain wasn't there, and I'm also interested in whether or not the stock reserves of other groceries have been examined and whether they exist in the way they store these foods, so other than the cereals with which there were problems in the previous period? Under the law, the government should adopt an annual stock reserve programme, a financial plan. I also think that the plan for investment in public storage should be found in that annual programme, and I don't think it was an idea relating to those mid-term plans that were supposed to exist under the previous law and should have been done, and we heard there was nothing. I have another question on the subject of public storage, or storage space. It is said in light of the law that investments in the storage space will be 172m euros by 2020. I suppose it means EU territory and all those countries now belonging to the energy community. Is this funding going to be provided by the European Union, because it says here in the law that our operation is going to be carrying out the construction of these public warehouses, so I'm curious on what basis we know, based on what parameters? Well, anyway, referring to that again, I would now move on to another law that is the Act of Confirmation of Annex number 2. The agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between Serbia and China and asked the question – how will we ensure that Serbia's economy, primarily construction and our builders, are involved in the construction of these infrastructure projects that we will be working with the People's Republic of China? It should be noted that Article 5 provides for changes concerning the choice of bidders, i.e. no procurement for the selection of bidders for these infrastructure projects. So how are we going to determine this artist and, of course, how are we going to ensure that these are some companies, of course from the Serbian construction industry? Is Serbia as a state signatories of this agreement conditioned by the Chinese bank's loan not to call public procurement and has the opinion of the Public Procurement Authority been delivered? Of course, in all of these cases, we have to do it. Also, since Article 2 of the Agreement, therefore, of the basic agreement, states that projects and studies for the purposes of the construction of these infrastructure facilities will also work, will they amend this Article 5. The agreements listed here in Annex 2 mean that Chinese bureaus and Chinese agencies will do the same projects and studies, not Serbian firms? Also, does it mean that all the equipment and all the machines we're going to get, as stated in Article 2 of this Article 5, we're actually going to import and obtain from China? In light of the bill, it also states that Serbia will not have financial obligations in implementing the law. However, the amendment of Article 6 freed all transport infrastructure projects from VAT and customs, as the minister initially said. I think it's certainly a shame for the Serbian budget. Of course, there will be no financial obligations, but the damage would certainly be noticeable, because I think that the state of Serbia may have been able to establish a slightly better negotiating position in this whole story under this agreement and that we are, however, in addition to very important things, which is that we have these infrastructure projects, to realise them, and to achieve certain revenues in the budget. As regards the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation, I would like to ask quite similar questions because at point 5 of this Agreement, it says that public procurement procedures for the implementation of the projects listed among other things in the Annex to the Agreement and I am asking again – will Serbian companies not be able to participate in the realisation of the project itself because it specifically states that the Canadian Commercial Corporation is supplying offers from Canadian companies? It is very important that we know how much we will have, or whether there is an obligation to hire domestic Serbian performers, equipment and Serbian products. Does these agreements mean that projects will exclusively be implemented by Canadian companies and that they have the right to an obstacle to realisation, since the Agreement is valid for five years for all projects that are listed and there are several other areas besides energy? For the construction of the Motorway on Corridor 11, Belgrade-South Adriatic, for the construction of the Pojate-Preljina highway a minute to twelve years ago, and I must tell you that for Western Serbia highways, the highways represent survival and nothing but naked survival, although the state does not think that we all move here to Belgrade, I really urge it to move towards the realisation of these projects as soon as possible, but first of all to take care of the Serbian economy and Serbian construction and how to help our businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26854	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26855	Just a few explanations. Let me start with this agreement between the government of Serbia and the Canadian Corporation. Whether it will be built and how it will be built depends on the feasibility study to be done. This is a simple roof deal. Secondly, the Canadian side proposes its companies and Serbian companies. If the Canadian side proposes its company to provide and finance under certain models, which do not involve any guarantee of the state, in that case under the agreement is excluded from the public procurement process, which does not mean that in the negotiation process, it is a long period, it will not, of course, be made to our companies. The second thing, at the beginning when you were talking about the Stock Reserve Act, you asked for money, whether the EU, etc., and above all our estimates say it is necessary for Serbia for the next nine or ten years, when we talk about the storage space, to invest 50m euros and not 130m euros, as far as it stands, as I think a mistake. Secondly, it takes 600m euros to purchase oil derivatives for the next 10 years. That's the money we're going to provide through everything I've been talking about, that's primarily through this fee that we've been talking about and possibly some additional projects. But I repeat once again, Serbia is already in the structure of its storage space of certain storage spaces, and that's why for the next nine years, additional storage space is not as high as expected, but for the purchase of oil derivatives, we have to get it and we have to hold it there for 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26856	Minister Rasim Ljajic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26857	On the website of the Directorate, there is no annual plan and programme of the Directorate because it has been declared a state secret on the basis of a Regulation on the criteria for the identification of data relevant for the defence of the country to be kept as a state secret, which means that the total quantity and type of commodity reserves is classified and is therefore not on the website of that annual report. The government is establishing an annual plan. The financial resources are known from the Budget Law and there are no mystifications in this respect. We do not know whether, on the basis of Article 7 of the Director or an authorised person, we will use the right to change and prescribe a different way of information secrecy, so that this report is made available to the public. I really don't know. For now, this military regulation is applied to declare this a state secret. As for the funds used for the storage space, it is 200 million dinars used for the reconstruction of the R23 tank in Smederev. As far as the deal with China is concerned, it is an extremely favourable credit line. It will not only benefit Serbia, but 16 Southeast European countries will use an open credit line under very favourable conditions and those conditions for which we also use credit to build the Zemun-Borca bridge. It is true that neither VAT nor customs on imported goods are paid. That was the condition of the Chinese side because we're getting a loan under very favourable conditions. The annex provides for a way to determine the choice of a foreign performer, as well as our domestic performers and service providers, and we will see how it will be defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26858	Replica. National MP Bojana Bozanic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26859	Thank you. I thank the ministers for their response. As for investments in the storage space, I apologize if I was wrong, but the explanation that I received as a review of the information provided by the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy is that by 2020 investment in the storage space is 172m euros. If I'm wrong, I apologize, but that's how it is. I thank you for your answer. I understand, of course, that there are conditions, if someone gives funds, that that's how it has to be. As far as the stock reserve programme is concerned, I didn't understand that all the details of the programme are a state secret, of course some part is, but I saw a lot in the press how much wheat or corn are bought, etc., so I thought maybe some of those parts should be on the website within the programme, but I understand that the full report is protected. I only appeal to the government, to the ministries to really fight maximum for the Serbian economy, above all for the slow-moving Serbian construction, because that way we can get out of the crisis and stop raising all those taxes that are on the back of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26860	National MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26861	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens, I will make a brief comment on the draft law amending the Law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 97 and points 1 and 9, the framework for the adoption of this law has been fully defined. Our country respects its commitments, defined in 2000 by the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and the destruction of the "Official Journal of the SRJ", international contracts number 2, which it has joined this Convention. I believe that it is necessary to agree and update the concentration limits of the chemical substances in question for which there is no obligation for domestic legal persons to submit prescribed reports to the competent ministry, ensuring the same application of the Convention in all States of the signatories, as the basic law has been adopted in order to comply with the obligations made by the State by adopting the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and Disposal, and it is necessary to comply with the decision and instructions adopted by the Conference of Member States. In this way, the conduct of our country is equated with the conduct of the other members of the Convention and, most importantly, ensures the proper and complete application of the Convention. The amendments in Article 23 are fully compatible with the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Extermination. To implement this law, as we have heard, no additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget is required, so that the competent ministry will ensure its implementation within the framework of regular business. This law does not create new obligations for citizens, businesses, small and medium-sized companies, and thus does not entail new costs of implementation, so that the law is to be adopted in order to comply with the Convention. The Serbian Progressive Party will support and vote for them in the voting day, all draft laws that are on the agenda today. As far as the Systemal Code on Stock Reserves is concerned, I would have one suggestion for the authorities, or suggestion, as regards Article 8 of this Act. I think there's a possibility for the City of Nis, as the center of the territorial deployment of the stock reserves. I think the City of Nis and this part of Serbia would gain importance in terms of governance and distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26862	MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26863	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry, let me at first express my great satisfaction over the presence of two ministers and six associates on this very important topic we are talking about. I will take this as respect for the MPs of the government of the Republic of Serbia, then respect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by the government and the resolution ministries, and in the end I will understand, gentlemen, your seriousness with which you approach, two ministries, so if you want two ministers, solving these problems, as you have done over the past year and a half. Bringing the new Stock Reserve Act is a great move by the Serbian government, and the right thing for citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, for several reasons. I'll only name three, four. First, because its application will better ensure that the theft from the stock reserves carried out by the former government of the former regime is stopped. Secondly, its adoption will meet the requirements for Serbia's membership in the World Trade Organisation. Third, a system of stock reserves will be brought into line with European legislation. Fourthly, the 1992 law, the issue of goods reserves, will finally comply with the regulations and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, because for a full 20 years it has not been done. Dear People's MPs, the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation to bring its legislation into line with the requirements of the EU energy directive, which will allow Southeast European countries to participate fully in the EU's internal energy market. Taking into account this, this commitment, the Stock Reserve Act also lays down the area of mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum products. However, I believe that it may have been necessary to consider setting stricter penalties for the theft of stock reserves, if that happens. I may be under the impression of past events, but stealing in stock reserves should, in my opinion, be treated as an economic downturn of our country's power, and even as it was in earlier periods, or as terrorism, and adequately determine adequate penalties. I note that it was not stealing the grain itself during the previous period, there is no time to explain it widely, but also many other products. Believe it or not, it's true that the applicable Stock Reserve Act was built away in 1992, 20 years ago. Since then, there has been a need to amend it, or pass a new law. The former regime had no ear for it, despite suggestions from experts that a change of law was necessary, which is why the Serbian state established teams of experts to produce new acts in the previous period. However, there would always be an unexplainable stop. Why? Probably in these few sentences of mine, there'll be an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, the discovery of the new government, I mean the government, about the theft of state property, might suggest the reason why it's been difficult with the legal regulations of the commodity reserves. That was also the opinion given by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in the last six months. In fact, the former government of the former regime has cleared the silos, I mean the theft, to the last grain from the stock reserves. They stole exactly 80,000 tonnes of cereals worth 20m euros. In seven warehouses, government controllers found no grains. Out of 77 controlled warehouses, 18 warehouses ran out of 20m euros worth of grain. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is unfortunate that for the first time in the coming of the new government, the state of Serbia has set out to control the state of the goods reserves in the last 10 years. Why didn't the former government do that? You heard the answer yourself. In the past, the theft of goods reserves was characterized as a threat to our country's economic power and considered a form of terrorism, and a applicable law only as a violation, even as a criminal offence. The theft of cereals and silos by the former regime was simple because the perpetrators had the support of the police, the judiciary and the Stock Reserve Directorate. Why? Because it's the only way to explain that control wasn't for 11 years. I'd like someone to explain another reason. Unbelievable, but since the grain stores were stolen, the state was paying for the same grains as if they were in silos. So she paid to store fog instead of grains that weren't there, and that's 250,000 euros a month. The logical question arises – what if there were natural disasters, possible earthquakes, floods or not God of war, and the stock reserves are empty, the population needs to be fed? I therefore believe that the law may have decidedly determined that stealing our country's stock reserves was undermining our country's economic power, that it was equal to maybe even terrorism, and that it might have been appropriate to impose penalties on it. Only two sentences on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting the development of production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, since the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention in 2000, which was adopted at the UN Security Council in 1540, which gave the Convention additional strength and importance. The accession of our country, Serbia's accession to the Convention is very important, because this is the way we gain reputation, both among the members of the Convention and among the UN in general. By applying this law, we will show our country's commitment to introducing regulations from this area in time, but also realize that we will be very often the subject of attention regarding the application of the Convention. Thanks to you, Madam Minister, and your industriousness, we bring these regulations in due time. In Voting Day, I call on all MPs, regardless of the party's commitment, to vote for these laws, and especially MPs from the opposition, because this will publicly condemn their colleagues who have estranged grains from the warehouse and damaged Serbia's state by more than 80,000 tonnes of grains. This will, ladies and gentlemen, make a small contribution to the modernisation of Serbia, conducted by the SNS headed by its President, Aleksandar Vukic, the country's President Tomislav Nikolic and Parliament Speaker, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26864	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26865	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Art. 104, 106 and 107. They have two elements of the error you've committed. First of all, you've allowed the previous speaker to leave the agenda completely and present things that have turned into insults and accusations without any basis. Namely, along with the living minister, the living and healthy who sits here and who knows all the nature and situation in the commodity reserves, as well as their connection to the dispute with Macedonia that we have and now, you have allowed the previous speaker, though in the spirit and style of the Makarska referendum '73, to give us a lecture here again and to say that, beware, the MPs of the opposition contributed to the robbery of their country and to the emptying of the silos. That's inadmissible. You, as chairman, don't know which path you allow this behavior when someone in power so address the opposition. That doesn't make any sense, Mr. Chairman. You must give the warning and stop the man immediately. In case he has any information, let him run straight to the D.A.'s office. Besides, at least there's good connections and there at the head, he says, with Mr. Wolfie, everything works great. Don't harass us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26866	I really didn't hear him calling the MPs, but it was the former regime. He's been talking all this time about a former regime where I've been in the middle of it. Therefore, it does not appear in that sense that he called the MPs, but the former regime did. That's one thing. Secondly, the fact is he was talking about stealing a reserve from a certain warehouse. I have to tell you, though, I can't get into what's true or not. You can't deny it's part of the reserve. That's how I saw it. Personally, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, but you certainly have the right to ask that in the Voting Day we make a statement about it. You won't? Thank you. Mr. Atlagic, you have no right to reply, since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Marco Atlagic, from the place: He spoke to me. Never mind what he said to you, he advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. On what basis are you answering? (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Article 108. Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26867	Mr. Chairman, Article 108. - You have to take care of the agenda. I'll remind you that you interrupted me because I compared the prices, or the fee for the oil with the price of electricity. The former speaker spoke about the former government, didn't mention the law, talked about some abuses, talked about everything and everything. He was pretending to be an opposition, and you let him go peacefully to the end. Although I believe that my presentation was far more useful for this debate today, I think that you should have the same criteria for all and then you will be more respected by all MPs and then the subject will be more significant and better processed. Mr Stefanovic presides over the National Assembly much better because that is exactly what he adheres to. Please try and stick to the fact that all MPs have equal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26868	That's why I'm not the president of the assembly. It is therefore logical that the President of the Assembly leads better. As far as I'm concerned, I'm glad the President of the Assembly is better than I am in charge of the Assembly, because that proves that we've chosen a good man. Secondly, the perception of what is going on in the agenda, as anyone puts it, it is clear that you will experience it differently, the right hand side will experience each and every one of you individually, and I see it quite differently as neutral. I'm trying to be neutral and make sure that mostly, I mean, I'm doing it. So, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it's your right to ask that in the Voting Day we make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Are you looking? (John Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. All right, we'll go to the voter's Day. Who else wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26869	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I'm advocating a violation of Members 103 and Members 109. Article 103 says the MP has the right to seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which my colleagues have done. However, they advertised, say, Article 104 and he speaks of the right to replication. So, I don't blame you very much because members are listed quickly, including those of Article 104. You have not denied anyone the right to a replica, nor has anyone called upon it. I also advertised article 109, as colleagues insisted that you give a warning to my distinguished colleague Mark Atlagic. The warning is given to a messenger who approached the speaker without permission, and he did not. The warning is given to a speaker who speaks before asking and receiving a word, and he did not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26870	Please, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26871	I'm advertising Rule 109, literally reading the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26872	Listen to me, please. You're wrong. You have to prove what I hurt the Rules of Procedure. What one of the MPs said when he advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure is his right, and it is my duty to follow it. You may indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but only in the part where I contributed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please stick to it. That which any of the messengers of the people have said is my weakness if I have allowed it and attribute it all to me. Don't attribute, as they can't attribute your right to speak. Please attribute it to me, to what is injured, in what sense is the injured Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26873	I was just saying where you injured the Rules of Procedure, or what was advertised and what I advertised. So you let these injuries be advertised by the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, the Rules of Procedure say, if he interrupts or throws a speaker, who directly addresses another MP, if he uses curses and offensive expressions, if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons, if other proceedings violates the order of the sitting or acts contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So please, in future chairman, I do not ask that this vote be made, that some consideration be given to these comments of the Rules of Procedure, at least I think one MP within the Parliament group is enough and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26874	Thank you, too. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26875	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law on commodity reserves stems from the need to remove all observed shortcomings in the existing Stock Reserve Act, which was passed twenty years ago. Based on the need to align the new law with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, requirements for membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation and the EU are met. The main reason for the adoption of a new law on commodity reserves is to more precisely define the objectives of the education of commodity reserves, as well as the determination of the scope and type of products within the framework of the stock reserves and the harmonisation of the reserve system with the European legislation. If the Law on ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community between the European Community and the Southeast European countries obliges the Republic of Serbia to bring its legislation into line with the requirements of the EU Energy Directive. The new Bill on Stock Reserves also governs the area of mandatory oil and oil products reserves, which once again confirms the respect and realization of the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia. The new Bill on Stock Reserves regulates the conditions for education, financing, distribution, use and renewal of goods reserves and conditions for the establishment of distribution financing and renewal of mandatory reserves of oil and oil derivatives, as well as security and maintenance of space for accommodation and storage in warehouses throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Professional jobs related to operations in commodity reserves are carried out by the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate, which has a legal personality, based in Belgrade, but is given the opportunity to educate special organisational units outside its headquarters. The operation of goods reserves, education, restoration, distribution and financing of goods reserves is carried out by the Directorate on the basis of the annual programme. The annual programme and financial plan for its implementation are adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Directorate. The new bill obliges the Directorate to submit once a year a report to the government of the Republic of Serbia on the business of commodity reserves. In the case of emergency or wartime, the law obliges the Directorate for Continuing Work, in a manner and under the conditions laid down by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The bill provides for supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this law, by the ministry responsible for trade and agriculture affairs, through market and agricultural inspectors, as well as the competent energy ministry and the competent finance ministry. The representatives of the Ministry of Health, Finance, Business, Defence, Agriculture, Trade, Justice and State Administration, Economics and Regional Development, Energy and Environment, and Home Affairs, where their suggestions and suggestions are taken into account in the drafting of the text of the law. I believe that the proposal for a law on commodity reserves is well and well done because it provides security for supply, use, management and renewal of goods reserves, thus ensuring the economic security of the Republic of Serbia. Based on all that has been said about the new Stock Reserve Act and what is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, the SNS parliamentary group will support the draft law on commodity reserves in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26876	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of the government, there has been a lot of discussion today about the proposal for a law on commodity reserves, perhaps a very difficult word. I fully agree with fellow Members of Parliament who claim that this legal matter should have been put into the procedure before and the work of the stock reserves to regulate the law that has brought about the situation in which the state is today. Well, someone may not like this today, but I have to say that we haven't even had a stock reserve in the past because, by definition of the stock reserves, they serve when there are elemental accidents, war dangers and major market disturbances. I'm very interested in when our stock reserves have intervened in the last 15 years when major market disturbances occur. Especially when it comes to agricultural products that are strategic. I wouldn't want to talk about energy because it's a matter of the department and there may be some competitions but it's not about other activities but life supplies and how they are. We've recently had, say, roadblocks due to the price of sunflowers. It's been a long time, and it's the government's wish, the minister-in-chief, that everything be likened to liberal conditions on the market. Now, I ask one other question – do we have these liberal conditions on the market? Or we have cartel monopoly associations that regulate everything that happens in Serbia. I can say we have this other one. We all know when it's a basic accident, we all know when it's a war situation, but nobody can convince me that the difference in the price of living cattle in February and October is 40% and that it's not a serious market disturbance, and so it is. No one can convince me that a serious market disturbance is not when the difference in the ransom price of wheat in July or December is 40% higher in January. The difference. Who's making money on that? Cartels. Why? Well, we don't have a game. We don't have anyone to fight to buy out a agricultural product or anything else, but we have one mass, most of all, of all the bad guys who make money on this. To make things worse, so far with stock reserves and their supplies have been traded to replace those same goods when market conditions were more favourable for those buying out the agricultural product. That's why we had this famous shortage in the stock reserves that showed up. I don't think they really wanted to steal, it would have been obvious, but if they wanted to make a lot of money, with money provided by Serbian citizens, that's a fact. And no one can deny it. Here our stock reserves have proved that existing legislation does not fit the current market situation. If we're already in favour of liberal capitalism and the market, I'd like someone to show me some economic expert or expert that he plans to develop his company in the long term when he has an oscillation in the market of 40% in the supply of raw materials. Maybe he could plan it, but he's still not smart enough to assess whether he'll have enough raw materials because of such market conditions. Serbia is a agricultural country and the entire government should be organised in such a way as to create normal conditions for the development of agriculture, and conditions were such that the agricultural producer was losing. I will rely most on livestock farming because it is the highest form of agricultural production, and the meat industry is the highest form of the agricultural and food industry. We had a situation that a farmer, a farmer, lost January, February, March, April, May, often in June, because he couldn't cover the cost of production or farming because at that moment the raw materials were expensive and his cattle were cheap. The consumer lost in August, September, October, November – because meat was expensive. Who made money? How was the standard of citizens protected? These are the problems why we have agricultural production today, at least when it comes to livestock production, at the level of 1912, 1913 or 1914. Are we going to talk about how the competition that was supposed to take part in that liberal market was removed? Through legislation, where laws have been selectively applied, in particular 2008, 2009 and 2010. It seems to me that at the time, some director of the Department of Veterinary Affairs was Mr. Micevic, a former colleague, who only closed slaughterhouses that were not in a system that were employed by 400 people. We of the SNS believe that this law will break some bad practice, as well as some bad sublegal acts to stop existing, to stop someone from making a living on the stock reserves. Because only stabilization in the market can be enough motive for stock reserves that they don't need a single dollar from the budget to preserve the economy, to preserve citizens' living standards and create stable market conditions so that the economy can develop and that the country doesn't cost a single dinar, even more or less, to make a little money. It's one of our visions of how to manage the stock reserves. We believe that this law gives these opportunities, unlike the previous ones, and that is why we will support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26878	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26879	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, fellow Members and colleagues, and I will be back in history a little while, given that in the longer period of time, from 1993 to 2000, I have worked closely and intensively with the then Republic Stock Reserve Directorate in order to supply the market with basic life supplies. During that period, I also experienced all the reasons for which republican or slave reserves are formed, which are: market disturbance situation, state of emergency and even war. This is precisely why I am particularly pleased that we have before us a new bill aimed at harmonising this important area with European legislation, as well as the adoption of a modern law that defines the issues of commodity reserves. Because it is a Republic law, and I mentioned earlier that in 1993 I worked with them, in 1992 brought into other social circumstances and in the federal state which defined the questions in this area by federal legislation in 1989 and some amendments and additions, respectively, in 1993 and 1997. A decision by the Council of Ministers of the previous State Community of Serbia-Montenegro created the opportunity for certain competences of the Federal Stock Reserve Directorate to move on to the republic. This is just one piece and one reason to pass a new law. The second part concerns the obligation to create a reserve of oil and petroleum products, in line with the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, which is required to bring its legislation into line with the European, which is one of the signatories countries, for the participation of the Southeast European countries, where we are, too, on the EU energy market. The draft law has the intensities to move, above all, the issue of commodity reserves and the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate with the so far-favoured position of certain goods and products and to give them the right place and purpose, above all, to ensure stability and to prevent market disturbances, as well as to define the market conditions of business with the attention of a good businessman. The overarching purpose and task of the stock reserve is to ensure the stability and supply of the market in case of emergency situations. Here we mean natural disasters, disasters, technical and technological disasters, which can result in interruptions or complete and difficult basic supply; then the occurrence or immediate danger of major market disturbances and ultimately, in the event of a war or emergency. The Republic of Serbia educates its stock reserves in order to preserve supply and stability, primarily agricultural and food products, materials for the reproduction of the same, medicines and medical means and equipment, oil and petroleum products, transport equipment and telecommunications systems. Also, stock reserves can make up money. Jobs related to commodity reserves are carried out by the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate, and local self-government and autonomous province can also, depending on its needs, form and educate trade reserves. The law provides for the adoption of annual stock reserve programmes, following the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which determines the types, quantities, volume and value of goods which educate and restore as reserves, territorial space, capacity, storage space, storage conditions, investment needs, etc. This law provides for the establishment of mandatory reserves of oil and petroleum derivatives in the event of a threat to energy and energy supply due to supply disturbances. The law closer determines what mandatory reserves are, the basis on which the height of the same, the way in which they are kept and formed is determined. The government, on the basis of a proposal from the competent ministry, brings a long-term plan to form and maintain a 10-year reserve, with the obligation to monitor the application and proposes compliance with the real needs within at least three years. The government also brings a medium-term programme for a three-year period. The activities of reporting, forming, maintenance and investment are carried out by the Ministry of Energy, which is in accordance with the European Community Directive and the central storage body, with the obligation to form a separate organisational continent within the framework of the ministry itself in the oil and gas sector. Particular attention should be paid to the storage, storage and control of and control of both the storage and refurbishment of the reserves and the intended use of goods from commodity reserves, so as not to repeat the situation of major shortages of goods in warehouses and the unauthorized availability of goods from commodity reserves. The draft law amending the Law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction stemmed from the need for certain provisions of the existing 2009 Law to be in line with the decision or instructions made by the Conference of the Member States of the signatories, the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Chemical Weapons, and the destruction of which we are signatories. The Republic of Serbia has joined the Convention 10 years ago and appropriate decisions have been made during this period, both legal and natural persons dealing with production and processing are required to submit appropriate reports on the production of chemical substances from List 1, 2 and 3. The Republic of Serbia has fulfilled and fulfilled all obligations under the Convention, given that we are under special control, as legal heirs to the SFRY, which was one of the few countries that owned chemical weapons and had the capacity to produce the same. One amendment was adopted on the Committee and the government accepted it. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation on Strategic and Economic Co-operation stemmed from a common position on the importance of projects, primarily from industry, energy and agriculture and infrastructure development, as significant priority objectives in setting and achieving Serbia's citizens' well-being and accelerated economic recovery. Canadian companies were present in Serbia first and foremost in research and exploitation of our country's mine potential. The Annex to this Agreement is firstly projects in the field of energy using our hydropotentials and investing in renewable energy sources. It should be noted that this corporation is state-owned and founded by the state of Canada. I hope this is just the beginning of fruitful and long-term co-operation in several fields because officials in the state of Canada have shown their desire and will to expand the areas of co-operation between the two countries both in the transport of goods and in the flow of people and through joint investments in production and agriculture. Finally, I must mention Annex number two between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, which was signed in 2009 and on the basis of which three major projects are implemented in Serbia, the Zemun-Borca Bridge, the procurement of scanners for Customs Administration and the first phase of the "Kostolac B" project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26880	The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26881	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected ministers and other members of the government, the proposal for a new law on commodity reserves submitted by the Government on one hand, was conditioned by codification and modernisation of our legislation in this area, since this matter was regulated by a republican law of 1992, a federal law inherited from the time of the SFRY, and two sublaws, which had been passed by the Republic government and former federal executives. On the other hand, and in this matter, it is necessary to comply with international standards to the team before it is stated that our country has already signed certain international agreements that impose systematic new solutions. Unlike the applicable law, the new one will first define some of the principles of business and management of commodity reserves, of which I particularly consider important the principle of market business and the principle of good business attention. In order to implement these principles in practice, the principle of transparency of business has also been declared, unless the regulations are regulated differently. More important is that provision that defines which good falls under the stock reserves. In view of the current solutions that include food products and medicines, I think a good solution is that under the stock reserves oil and oil derivatives and equipment and goods for rail, mail, telecommunications, energy and defence systems will be included, given that we are all personally convinced during the duration of NATO aggression in 1999, of the importance of life for the state and citizens of the proper and reliable functioning of these public services. It is predicted that operations related to stock reserves will continue to be carried out by the Stock Reserve Directorate. Unlike the previous law, only an annual stock reserve programme is now envisaged, which I think is not good, because it took a medium-term plan, if a five-year period is too long, to plan some real plans and needs, I think it could go on a shorter period of time for these roof plans, for example for two or three years, as for oil reserves. On the other hand, new solutions will be better specified what the annual plans do and how they are drawn up. The key news is that the principle of market business will be implemented through a legal provision, that the purchase of goods will be done in future under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. In this way, significant savings in funds will also be achieved in this area. The new law will no longer provide for the procurement of goods from domestic producers, which I do not personally think is quite right, but if the proposal is defined as the market principle of public procurement, then such provisions must also be accepted. As regards the way goods are delivered, it is good that the possibility of obtaining goods through a trade, which will also create opportunities for more favourable supply of goods and business of the Directorate. A significant part of the law is dedicated to the area of oil and oil reserves, which has so far not been the subject of regulation of the existing law on commodity reserves. The reserves will be shown in the two-month consumption of these energy plants at Serbia level, and are scheduled for storage in special places and special storage rules. As far as the storage rules themselves are concerned, there are no roots of new solutions, since the existing ones have quite precisely regulated the relationship between the Warehouse Directorate and the mutual rights and obligations defined in accordance with the Bond Relations Act. In addition, the new law will also provide for criminal provisions for commercial offences and violations of the law, which has not been the case so far. Dear People's MPs, order must be introduced in this area, the market-based transparent business principles should be established, and most importantly, more frequent and thorough controls and the real state of the commodity reserves. This law will now create a more valid legal basis for such a thing, and will therefore support this legislative proposal by the PUPS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26882	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26883	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had a little bit of a problem at the beginning of today's debate to understand the correlation between the stock reserve and the chemical weapons ban law. Then I remembered that yesterday we marked the day when a truce was signed in one of the most terrible wars in mankind's history, the day the First World War was ended, which will remain remembered for the mass use of chemical weapons, by millions of victims caused by chemical weapons. However, we Serbs remember the First World War above all, by the heroism of the Serbian regiments, who were first married with fame in both the First and the Second Balkan Wars. Unfortunately, during the 1990s, those who ruled this country had come up with this heroism, this torment, blood and sweat, known and unknown heroes. Then I saw that 700 million dinars were planned to mark the anniversary of the start of World War I in the budget for next year, and that a billion and 879 million 728 thousand dinars were foreseen for the purchase of goods reserves. And there's a connection between those two laws. I don't think I understand what Tomislav Nikolic is going to do at Milunke Savic's grave, except to tell her – I'm sorry that I ran a policy that your heroism has come up with, but it shouldn't be to spend 700 million dinars. The 700 million dinars will be transferred immediately to the stock reserve fund and then the budget will make sense, otherwise, I don't know what kind of answer they will give when from the depths of the Ionian Sea, when they stand in the galleys of the Tsar, ask heroes from both Bregalnica, Kolubara, Cera and Cat's Stone. Is there a Serbian horn from Kosovo field? I don't think there's an answer to that question and it doesn't take 700 million dinars to answer that question. Every time there's a law on stock reserves on the agenda, the government falls. That is not why this law has been in force since 1992. We last year, as some of my predecessors said, had one elemental accident that hit Serbia, it was drought. Since one evil never comes to Serbia, we have also received this government, the worst since the arrival of southern Slovenians on the Balkan Peninsula, in order for the disaster to be complete. Today, it is easy to say that no one wanted to regulate the area of commodity reserves, which is the easiest thing to say to the SNS because you of DS did not take over a country destroyed by wrong politics, destroyed, robbed, with sanctions, visas, devastated, released from the world and international organisations, with unsolved murders and prisons of crowded political opponents who stood up for it, were only in prison because they advocated the idea of the EU. Today, when we opened the door to you and European aspects and European eyes, today when you realized that the country is round and accepted EU policy, it is easy for you to pass European laws. I say, the previous law was passed in 1992 with the intention of providing supplies for war, natural disasters and shortages. Since you were far-sighted in the '90s, you first passed laws, and then you started wars, and then you made shortages. It's really an advanced view of politics, a far-sighted understanding of politics. So, you take care of the law of shortages, you cause shortages, you make a law of what happens when the war comes, and then it's fine by the law. We all get in line for sugar, zeythin, milk, flour, but that's why you call us five-coloners. That's why we were traitors and five-collars. I have to admit, I was a five-colonaire at the time. Every day I was fifth in the sugar column, rabbit, milk, flour, wheat, bread, but times changed. In 1998 you entered the government and you didn't think to change this law. Now you're criticizing us for having to deal with sanctions, visas, power shortages, a country where there were no stock reserves, there were no extra reserves, no reserves, no gas, no oil, no sugar, no oil, and now you're giving us a lecture on the robbed reserves. I really don't know if a man can break his mind like a thread and forget his role in the time behind him and forget how important he has given that time. Well, it looks like it can. The urge protects you with complete forgetfulness to save you here from torture for responsibility, and the responsibility of your effect is enormous, as because of impact, as much as because of no effect. That's why it's amazing to me, the Maltese historical treasure, when you start to explain to us through this slave reserve law how we actually got what we didn't ask for. I understand that you explain to the citizens of Serbia that they will get what they already have in this five-year-old's wake. It's so advanced. Why do you promise them that they will get what they didn't ask for, that you didn't promise? Why are you giving it to them? It's amazing to me that we always get what we're not looking for, and we don't get what we're looking for. For example, an increase in VAT on these life intentions that should go into stock reserves, milk, sugar, oil, books, heat, on newspapers, on textbooks. In one word, under your advanced authority, only prices advance. Everything else goes forward. The most important part of this VAT increase to these intentions that go into silos and warehouses will not hit pensioners at all. They don't even buy milk, sugar, Zeytin. They have no heating and utility costs at all in their cost. They don't eat basic life intentions. They don't heal at all, they don't buy drugs. It doesn't hit the pensioners in your advanced opinion at all. I don't know if you're going to put genetically modified food in these warehouses, because genetically modified food was probably the eternal need of our people and our citizens, which you've solved so advanced that you give it to us to drown, so that our people will be genetically processed, so I guess mutants in an even greater number will vote for you. You know, it's easy to tighten someone's belt when it's as big a waist as that canvas on Topcider, a historical canvas. What does this law say? Let me just tell you a few things I have some fundamental objections to. You say this, in Article 4 of the Law, the position, point 4, enters both the supply reserves and the equipment and goods for the needs of the railway, mail, telecommunications, energy and defence systems. I have to stop at those railroads. Do you know what the CEO's menu looks like? Turtles, goat cheese. In which silo will you guard the truffles and in which goat cheese? And where do the Cuban Havana cigars go? Are all these the needs of the Railways or the needs of the Director General? What do we do when he decides to take the entire collective, the college director, to lunch? Do you know how many seas of truffle silos? It can't even be born in China with whom you sign a contract on both the canal and the purchase of a truffle. Is that how you save it? Why is the Belgrade Stock Reserve Directorate headquarters? What's not in Krushevec? I'm Krushevian. We're in favour of decentralisation. Or New Sad, StaIac? Well, next to the Port Captain's office, he's got the Stock Reserve Directorate. What can I tell you about the budget? What can I tell you about point 22 of this letter of law? He says: “The amount of compensation for the establishment of mandatory reserves, the method of accounting, the way in which this fee is paid, as well as the availability of funds for this fee is prescribed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance in charge of trade affairs, and on the basis of the necessary amount of funds for the implementation of the annual reserve programme. “ What will that compensation be? Does anyone know how to answer me? How much will this fee affect the prices of some energy? Do we know any parameters as far as that is? Is that 100 million, two million? He says - the fee goes to the budget. How much further will it burden the lives of a pensioner who will not feel at all these advanced measures of improving his life? These are questions you don't have answers to. The next time you decide to give us a lecture, how we left empty silos and I don't know what, remember what condition you left the country in 2000. Empty silos, empty warehouses, and full of cemeteries and crowded collective centres with refugees. Now I need you before that policy to embarrass us for your effect. I'm ashamed I didn't fight you more vigorously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26884	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26885	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to say something about the stock reserves that, according to their function, need to preserve the country's strategic security, including possible military and economic pressures to which, God forbid, we can be exposed again. Our close history has shown it. The colleagues here talked about the role of the stock reserve, the stability of the market, the price, etc. I agree with them completely. Stock reserves should be used to that end. However, the stock reserves, what no one has said, also play a role as an instrument for agricultural policy. So they should preserve price stability during the ransom. The state can no longer prescribe safeguard prices, it cannot prescribe parity, but it can use stock reserves, as an instrument, that when surpluses of agricultural products are obvious and the price of decline they can buy it and put it into stock reserves and intervene when prices go too far, or when they exceed a market price. That's how a Serb peasant is kept. Also, the role of stock reserves in agricultural policy can be in the following – preserving each other's parities, especially between mineral fertilisers, corn, wheat, agricultural products, as well as parities between corn, wheat and cattle prices, so meat prices. In such a way, the state may, without prescribing it, preserve the safety, not only of consumers, not only of processors, not only of the state, but also of preserving the country's food security, the population, but also of preserving the production of strategic agricultural products. Therefore, their role should be in agricultural production as a major instrument. But that's not the case. We are witnesses, it is an inherited policy, that stock reserves have always been on the side of processors and trade interests, various traders and export lobbys. I was the one who was the opposition in the '90s, and I don't remember any of my colleagues fighting anything too much against it, unless it's taken me seeing them like that with chairs on my head, with expensive pictures under my mouse, in front of a burning, then the Federal Assembly, that is, this Assembly. What the minister said was that moment almost a million tons of wheat was found. In the 1990s, there were 1,200,000 tons of wheat in the stock reserves. So also how these possible military and economic pressures on our country were addressed. Also, I claim that upon the arrival of DOS to power, in these changes I myself participated there was no gap in warehouses as much as it was in 2012, and the minister himself confirmed it, there was goods in the stock reserves. In 2003, over 500,000 tonnes of wheat remained in the stock reserves, and then these trade interests emerged by the fact that the wheat paid for 7.5 dinars, plus the costs, etc., which exceeded eight dinars per kilogram, were sold for exportation of 5 or 5.5 dinars, so that the wheat would immediately after harvesting purchased from the same exporters of 13 dinars. So, just on those several hundred thousand tons, someone made a pound of about eight dinars, so figure out how much that was at that point. I think it was between 30m and 50m euros for the exporter. The minister himself said that in stock reserves, which in a court of law, 54 million and 95 million, you will receive a 150,000 figure, that the state is being sued or activated by mortgages. So, that's a total of 150,000 euros, to recalculate it into the price of last year's market-based wheat, that was about 150,000 tonnes for that money, and we didn't buy it, I don't know exactly how much, I don't believe we bought something big. So 1,000 wheat is in court, which is mortgaged on 54.5 million and 95 million in court, that's the information presented by the minister. Also, I want to say that the Ministry of Trade is not responsible because the stock reserves are under government authority and this law only defines what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing, what the Ministry of Trade, what the Ministry of Energy is doing. So, that wasn't possible until now. Also, it is not true that the only affair of 80,000 tonnes of wheat, for which the state gave 20,00,000 euros and paid 2.5m euros annually for that warehouse. Before that, nine companies were sued in various ways, with 107,986 tonnes. It's not this last control. I can tell – Stapar Stepanovic worked Pecinci – Petlovaca – Novi Sad, twice Novi Sad "Import", Novi Sad – Belgrade – Šupria – Osipanica, a total of 59,165 tonnes of corn and 48,821 kg of wheat. It's the condition that was found before this control. This control has partially succeeded, 80,000 tonnes have been found and one part has not been found. The colleagues who were so loud about aflatoxin did not say that the aflatoxin affair was designed in the heads of those who wanted to cover up the affair, not to reveal the lack of corn, but that in the dry year, when it was to be delivered to cattlemen, it was to be declared aflatoxin and thus not to be delivered to cattlemen, and possibly, if necessary, to destroy it. This corn was not found in those quantities in the first ones shown in the stock reserves as aflatoxic, was not found during the controls found in these warehouses, and in some warehouses the quantities that the stock reserves passed to the warehouses were greater than their capacity, so I will specify Krcedin – 22,500 tonnes short, capacity 18,000 tonnes, is almost impossible to place in a glass of two decilitres of something. It was in that control of everything and everything. It has partially succeeded, and in part it has not, because they too are very skilled warehouses, so there has been a shift of various agricultural products, and I don't need to remind myself of how all these obligations have been avoided. So 80,000 tons was found. We were looking for that control. I was one of them. That affair wasn't forced to end. The opposition champions received 15,000 tonnes of wheat stocks of 23 dinars, but to return it after harvesting 15 dinars, the debt profit at 15,000,000 kilograms is 120,000,000 dinars. We're not going to name names. Also, the cattlemen recently applied for the rest of the aflatoxin corn and didn't get it. Aflatoxin corn was given to warehouses, like they were going to eat it. The only people who can use it are cattlemen. They didn't get it, but the warehouses got it right. Whether that corn was or not, I don't think so, but even if it was, that corn was paid 27 dinars plus VAT, 30 dinars last fall. This corn is now changing by 800 grams of new corn whose harvest price was 13 dinars, which means that 30 dinars per kilogram changes by 10 dinars. If it had been a normal landing event, that corn should have been used by cattlemen, that they maintain livestock production in very crisis years. But he hasn't been given in a year, most likely he hasn't been there. He was claimed to be aflatoxic. In the end, it's like that given to warehouses that can't use it, they can't eat it. The only thing they can do is sell it to cattlemen, and they'll probably sell it at a higher price than they can at the stock reserve. So every kilogram has been replaced by 800 grams. With a kilo of state buying 30 dinars, he now borrows it, and in exchange he gets a corn that will be paid 10 dinars. It's not hard to calculate that it's almost 20 dinars per kilogram. It is not difficult to calculate that combination of 25,000,000 kilograms must weigh 500,000 euros. It's not hard to calculate that it's 500,000 dinars. It is not difficult to calculate that it gives an equivalent of 4.5m euros. This is evidence that stock reserves weren't so useful to consumers, they weren't so useful to the state. This is evidence that they didn't even use agricultural producers. I'm not saying that they also benefited certain parties, but also how they used some merchants, importers, exporters and these lobbys. You don't have to work too hard after this and prove something more detailed. There's documentation for all of this. She's been photocopied. Apparently there are official secrets, but when it comes to some kind of confirmation, then that official secret isn't so secret, it gets to the media very soon. But everything that's with us, the official secret is actually public, and public procurement is secrets, and that's how this goes on. So I'll think about it. I'm probably gonna back this bill, 'cause there's some more amendments. That part about energy, I absolutely support it. I also support this part of the law, but I insist that the responsibility of those who are and how they knew what the warehouses were doing is determined, not just to match the fine boranium. We've been taking our heads off in front of the little thieves a lot, and in front of the big ones, we've been taking off our hats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26886	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want us to streamline the debate at the end of the day and say that the law on commodity reserves is being passed in order to implement it, but given the projected item in the budget for the Stock Reserve Directorate, it is clear that in the next period, the law on commodity reserves will be difficult to implement. I would like to reiterate once again that the 2013 budget for the Stock Reserve Directorate had over five billion dinars of the budget, that the rebalance reduced that amount to 3.6 billion, and that the budget proposal for the following year reduced that amount to barely three billion dinars. In doing so, it's only 1.8 billion dollars for the purchase of goods. This law does not allow the Stock Reserve Directorate to have its own income. So everything the Stock Reserve Directorate will buy next year, and this law includes equipment for the military, railways, telecommunications, mail, energy, will amount to barely 15m euros. This is absolutely not enough to correct the state of Serbian agriculture, let alone the development of Serbian agriculture. I stress that five billion dinars were spent last year to buy mercantile wheat and mercantile corn, and that as a result of the purchase, Serbia had a record production of mercantile wheat of nearly three million tonnes this year. I stressed that this relationship, as it was with Serbian farmers this year, will result in Serbia having to import wheat because of record low areas under the wheat next year, because it is forecast that Serbia will have just over a million tonnes of wheat next year, and the required quantity is 1,400,000 tonnes. Therefore, there is no principle of incentive and security of continuous production in the law, and that is a great lack of this law. I've done a good law analysis, and it clearly consists of two parts, the part that applies to all goods except oil and oil derivatives and the part that concerns oil and oil derivatives. Now, given that we have two ministers, which is not very common, which defends one law, I wonder how it is possible that there is no obligation in the first part of the law to adopt a long-term and medium-term plan and programme, and when it comes to oil and oil derivatives, it has a long-term and medium-term plan. Article 8 in respect of other goods, the annual programme shall be adopted for a period of one calendar year following the entry into force of the law governing the annual budget of the Republic of Serbia, without any deadline compared to the date of entry into force of the law, and in the case of oil and oil derivatives, the annual reserve programme shall be adopted no later than five days after the date of entry into force of the law governing the annual budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's just amazing that the two ministries didn't comply with the parts of the laws they wrote. What I'm extremely interested in is how is it that SNS has 12 amendments to only part of the law relating to oil and oil derivatives? Does this mean that the first part of the law wasn't even read or that this second part of the law was so bad that they had to fix this law themselves? All in all, the debate in particular will give us answers to some of these issues, but I repeat, without increasing the funds to the Republic Reserve Directorate, there is no possibility of implementing this law and Serbian agriculture will have even more problems in the coming year, because it is not adequately defined through subsidies or through the Republic of the Reserve for adequate assistance. I think that Serbian agriculture will remain only in pre-election promises Serbia's greatest development opportunity, and in fact will be Serbia's biggest failure, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-12-0.u26888	According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in points 8, 9, 24 and 25 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 74 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Dubravka Filipovski, Cedomir Protic, Milorad Stošić, Stefana Miladinović, Dejan Radenkovic, Vesna Jovicki, Dejan Rajčić, Ivan Bauer, Milorad Mijatović, Slobodan Jeremic and Olgica Batić. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Aleksandar Antic, the Minister of Traffic, Milorad Ilic and Milutin Popovic, assistants of the Minister of Transport, Dejan Kocic and Demir Hadzic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Traffic, Vida Stevanović, independent adviser and Miljan Milić, junior adviser at the Ministry of Transport, Sinisa Trkulja, assistant director of the Directorate for Railways and Milan Zivanovic, head of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 10, 11, 12, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda under points 10, 11, 12, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary groups, and the review is given to you in addition. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the Proposal for a Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Agreement on the Main Internal Waterways of International Matters, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the area of rail transport, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of the Minister of Ukraine on Co-operation in the area of rail transport, Proposal for a Law on Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic of Serbia and of Slovakia on International Transport of Transport and Passengers. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic, the minister of traffic want a word? Here you go.
