ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19289	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I called this special session to address his Excellency, Janos Ader, president of Hungary. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, the President, as well as the other members of the delegation attending today's session: his Excellency Oscar Nikovic, the Ambassador of Hungary to Serbia, Laslo Soke, Director for Foreign Affairs in the Office of the President, Jolt Nemet, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Hungary, Anita Alorijai, Press Director at the Office of the President, Laslo Sego, Adjutant in the Office of the President, Emoke Bac Varkuti, Head of the Office of the President, Mira Vujić, Third Secretary of the Embassy of Hungary in Serbia, Vera Mavric, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and his Excellency, Rade Drobac, Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia in Hungary. I ask his Excellency, Janosh Ader, president of Hungary, to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19290	Thank you. The only word worthy of this day, which may be a special accent, is that this is the first opportunity for the president of the Republic of Free Hungary to speak before the free Serbian Parliament. Dear Mr. President, dear Parliament, when I express my gratitude to you and my recognition, I do so on behalf of Hungary, on behalf of our entire political nation, on behalf of all my Hungarian countrymen, also on behalf of all well-intentioned and moral people who reject inhumanity and injustice, lived anywhere in the world, whether he is a Serb or Hungarian or a member of any nation in Europe. I express my gratitude to you and to the citizens of Serbia on behalf of all of them, not only do they believe in mutual respect and respect, but they are ready to act on behalf of the same principles. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, those who can step out of the shadow of painful sins and inhumane actions, they stand on the side of life and together with life on the side of the future, on the side of the common future. That's what you did. Those who follow the postulates of morality, they have the strength to speak the truth. You did it. A moral man has the courage to say that he feels right in the depths of his soul, and you have listened to your heart. Your Honor, you took an important historic step last week. You recognize all the things that politicians once broke down and politicians have to make amends today. You said what it was and no matter how painful, what 70 years seemed impossible to say. You've pronounced an entirely great sin that dictates common sense to people. You said collective guilt was unsustainable. You said there could be people who are sinful, but the people can't be sinful. You said that the Assembly and citizens of Serbia cannot be identified with the past and so many sins and wrong ideas that have caused human suffering in the past. Your decisions have made it clear for all time and makes it an uncut position that the free legislative body of the Republic of Serbia is ready to give satisfaction to innocent Hungarian victims, who were killed during the atrocities during World War II, the victims of Hungarians from this area. The Declaration of the Assembly that you adopted a few days ago after seven decades, not only seals a chapter of our common history in the 20th century that was filled with pain and darkness, but also opens a new perspective of the 21st century with regard to our peoples and states. Your decision expresses its commitment to European values. It is a decision whose meaning exceeds the decision itself because you set an example for others in this way. An example of how we live today, how we can and how it is necessary to do everything that can contribute to the restoration of the moral order that has been perverted in the past. Your work is a true gesture. It is a message to well - meaning people that those who are able to feel with others in mourning, that there is a strong spiritual bond among them. Those who hold on to one another in mourning are also able to share joy. The new Central Europe of the 20th century is born of these gestures, from gestures of mutual understanding, acceptance, co-operation, speaking the truth, out of respect for universal and common human values. This value system is the cornerstone of Europe's rebirth. You can count on us as friends and partners in successful European integration. Let me share some of our experiences with you right now. Our experiences show that the community whose membership you will become is not just a set of abstract values, but a set of allies who are considering a common future and who want to act together. In Europe, co-operation cannot be counted individually on great successes, but many of the countries that create partnership can count on new advantages. The adoption of the Declaration of the Assembly on Co-operation and the relationship that is based on our countries for good neighbouring countries is an important step in creating an alliance of this kind that shows for the future. The alliance, which points to the future, makes for stronger decisions and sentences like those recorded by Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic during a visit to Budapest. These sentences are like this – we have opened a new page in our relationship, we have closed the gates behind which there are misunderstandings left. In the interest of Hungarian children and Serbia, Mr. President stressed the following -- the burden of the past should be lifted from future generations. The time has come for each other's apologies and forgiveness. I think it's really time to apologize to each other. Free democratic Hungary condemns those who, by multiplying the sufferings of World War II, as Hungarians, have come up against innocent Serbs. As president of Hungary, I ask forgiveness for those crimes committed against innocent Serbs on behalf of Hungary in World War II. Since no one can commit crimes, we still believe that mutual forgiveness and what follows after an apology can be stronger than reconciliation, because we do not want to live side by side, but to live together as a community of Central Europe's people. We, today's Hungarians and today's Serbs, stand united on the side of innocent victims. We do not want to leave our children to die, lie, and hate, but to live, righteousness and cooperation. I want it to be that way. Let's do everything in the future that we can really do. You can always count on me and Hungary as good neighbors and allies. I thank you for giving me the opportunity to share my thoughts with you. Your attention was an honor to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19291	I thank his Excellency, Janosh Adre, President of Hungary. I conclude the third special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you. (The session is over at 10:15 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19292	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIAAPRIMARY National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 26 June 2013 (The session began at 12.15 p.m.). The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19293	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 144 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 122 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momir Stojanović, Dejan Rajčić, Slavica Saveljic, Branko Ružic, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Donka Banović and Milos Aligrudic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Sasa Jankovic, Protector of citizens with associates, Prof. Dr. Neven Petrusic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality with Associates and Stanojla Mandić and Aleksandar Resanovic, Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013, which was convened at the request of 141 MP, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you a request for the maintenance of the 7th Extraordinary Session in 2013, with a certain agenda contained in that request, with the correction of the title of the first two agenda points. As you could see for the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2013, the next Dn e n i r e d 1 was determined. Regular annual report by the Citizens' Protector for 2012, submitted by the Citizens' Protector with a proposal for a conclusion of the Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government Committee on 8 May 2013, the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 24 May 2013, the Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty of 29 May 2013 and the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Child Rights of 31 May 2013; 2. Regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2012, submitted by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 24 May 2013 and the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty of 29 May 2013; 3. Report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information from public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for2012 , submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Culture and Information of 24 June 2013 and the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee onJustice , State Administration and LocalSelf- Government of 24 June2013 ;4 . Report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for2012 , which was submitted by the State Audit Institution with a proposal for a closure of the FinanceCommittee , the Republic budget and the control of public spending since 19 June2013 ;5 . Annual report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for2012 , submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency with the proposal for a conclusion of theJustice , State Administration and LocalSelf- Government Committee of 24 June2013 ;6 . Proposal for a national strategy for judicial reform for the period2013-2018 , which was submitted by theGovernment ;7 . Proposal for a national anti-corruption strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to2018 , which was submitted by theGovernment ;8 . Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Republic ElectionCommission , who was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia – VojislavKostunica ;9 . Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic ofSerbia , which was submitted by the DemocraticParty 's ParliamentaryGroup. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 191 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1. The Joint Single Search on the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2012, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector with the Proposal for a Conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government of 8 May 2013, the Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 24 May 2013, the Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty from 29 May 2013 and the Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Rights of the Child from 31 May 2013; the Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2012 submitted by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality with the proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 24 May 2013 and the Committee's proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Labour, Social Issues, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty of Poverty since 29 May 2013; The Report of Information on the Law of the Law of the Court of the Court of 24th and the Law of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of 24th and the Court of Justice of the Europeans of Justice of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Union of the European Union of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Union for the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Joint Single Search on the 2012 report on the work of the State Auditing Institution, which was submitted by the State Audit Institution with a proposal for a closure of the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending since 19 June 2013; the Annual Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2012, which was submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government since 24 June 2013; 3. Joint Single Search on a proposal for a national judicial reform strategy for the period 2013-2018, submitted by the Government; a proposal for a national anti-corruption strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018, which was submitted by the Government; 4. A joint single search on the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Republic Election Commission, who was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica; a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. People's MPs are getting out of town. Do you think the vote is wrong? I would like to make one more statement about Mr. Babic's proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – no one with abstention – has voted, not one of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the agenda proposals under points 1, 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and what you have obtained in the material. I have Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, reported to me, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19294	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure. – procedure to monitor the work of state authorities, organisations and bodies. You did not put into the agenda today a report by the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia. It's a regulatory body that works and does its job well. The Assembly's Health and Family Committee adopted an annual report by the Health Council of Serbia, and the Serbian Parliament has shown concern for health care in Serbia by not putting a good report on the adoption, which drew attention to both Serbia's health corruption and some measures that the health ministry should take and work. Please, if we have made this mistake today, put the report of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda as soon as possible as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that it is the role of the National Assembly. Today's failure to put on the agenda of the Health Council's annual report shows concern for Serbia's health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19295	I do not see a bad will, but I must remind you that in an extraordinary session, the President of the National Assembly determines the agenda of the National Assembly. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly may, at the request of a number of MPs, convene a session of the National Assembly that then decides on the agenda. I don't see what I've hurt the Rules of Procedure in, because only the president of the National Assembly can do the violation of the Rules of Procedure. However, I understand this in good faith, and I believe that this report will also be on the agenda. I'm sorry we didn't get a chance to adopt reports from the representatives of independent institutions in the previous years, which I think this assembly of the National Assembly will remove. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19296	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the beginning of this session, I think the following provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been violated. Article 86 is the last position he says - the president of the National Assembly can postpone the hour, that is, the day of the start of the National Assembly, of which he informs the MPs in good time. With that in mind, yesterday the beginning of the session of the Madam Chairman was delayed for five minutes. Then five minutes went on for 53 minutes. I'm not surprised that Vidovdan will fall this year on January 14th, if that's how long it's been five minutes. I've got advertising and a member of 87. Rules of Procedure. It says - National Assembly meetings are usually held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. Today's session is scheduled for 12.00 hours, and it starts at 12.20 hours. The break in the determination of the quorum lasted unusually long in this unification of the debate. Finally, on the basis of Article 88, I question the presence of certain MPs. I'd like to get a copy of the electronic voting system on the presence of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19297	Of course, everyone has the right to ask. You'll be right. It's been released, it's official. I can answer you about this break, because I think I have rightly and to your request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure reiterated the vote to remove any suspicion that the vote was regular. At the same time, several MPs have indicated that their parliamentary units are not functioning and that they cannot exercise their parliamentary right. That's why I allowed a slightly bigger break, but it is undeniable that there were 126 MPs present in the hall who had their cards inserted into the electronic voting system. The document on this will always be provided by the congregation service, and that is not the problem. According to Article 96(3), Rules of Procedure, I urge MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups to set up a maximum of three participants in the debate by mutual agreement. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 192 and 193, and in accordance with Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: the regular annual report of the Citizens' Protector for 2012, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protection Officer, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and with the proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty; the Report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matters and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data for 2012, submitted by the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning and Protection of Personality with the proposal for the conclusion of the Competent Committee. Is that what the motionor's representatives want? The word is Mr. Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you to those who are here today, and they weren't here yesterday. Thank you more to those who were here yesterday. The report I filed contains the state of human rights and I'm sure you've read it, but I would take the opportunity to point out in the shortest lines what I consider to be the essence of that report. So, the state of Serbia's citizens' rights in 2012, I will remind you of 2012, marked a fall in the achievement of economic, social and cultural rights of citizens, the improvement of some political rights, with the simultaneous decline of others, the break-up of the vicious circle of failures in judicial reform, and the lack of results in the new cycle. The stagnation of respect for the rule of law is a clear demonstration of political will to fight corruption and tabloid banalization of the fight. What is particularly important for the majority of citizens, the lack of consistent reform of the administration and on depoliticalisation, in terms of professionalisation, which are some of the conditions for the legal and proper work of the public authorities. Dear People's MPs, the Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia was addressed last year by 20,000 citizens. Of those 20,000 citizens, almost every other one said that he could not live in the way he thought he was worthy of life. The citizens who say, I know you're not in charge, but I don't have a job, I don't have anything to feed my family on. Economic and social rights depend on the economic base in society, and it is not my job to deal with the economy, but it is my job to point out that what we often have is illegal, and even more often, we use it irrationally and incorrectly. I've already listed you on the front page one of those examples, and unfortunately, it's too much. So, in the process of control of not paying workers, you can find out that there is a Potato Centre in Serbia, a Center for Potatoes in Guca, founded by the government, to whom the state has given land, resources for work, buildings and everything that is needed, was supposed to be for scientific research, but this state potato centre is the only thing it does is produce and sell potatoes on the market, making competition for those who do not work in state resources. It is assisted by two ministries with serious funds from taxpayers and by state resources, with state aid, along with state grants, the potato centre is in bankruptcy, does not pay any profits or contributions. Such examples, MPs, there are too many. Because when we tell citizens there's no right to exercise their social rights, believe that you're both wrong and I'm wrong, because there's money, it's just used in a way that's totally inadmissible. Civil and political rights have made progress. Last year, a series of laws that unconstitutionally regulated the right to access data in the communication of citizens were advertised unconstitutionally before the Constitutional Court and, as proposed by the Citizens' Protectors. It's a big shift. Our citizens who do not have legal identity, who are legally invisible, are allowed to be enrolled in the parent books and these procedures are ongoing. Our citizens who do not have an apartment, have no home, or homeless are allowed to receive ID cards. All this has been done under the laws that you have passed in the National Assembly, which was initiated by the Guardian of Citizens, proposed and initiated. But there are also negative trends between civil and political rights. One of the most significant is the reduction of the essential freedom of the media through the influence of non-transparent ownership, legal and ethical irregularities of media space, the leak of sensitive information from the state authorities from the proceedings under way, and according to the European Court of Human Rights' rulings, the publication of information from investigations that are under way not only constitutes a violation of the presumption of innocence, but also a threat of independence and the authority of courts. Unfortunately, it happens every day. The rule of law in the Republic of Serbia is still in the shadow of political will. I've just come from hearing about the report I filed as a national and preventive torture prevention mechanism, to say again that the laws exist, but we don't implement them because there's no will. Dear People's MPs, it takes political will to pass the law, and that is your will here. When you pass the law, it is not a matter of political will whether it will be implemented, it is a matter of rule of law. One who does not enforce the law does not do something that is related to the will, but violates that law and you should react to it. The first Manchester in the world is in Sweden. I asked my colleague, Simeon, what is the percentage of the execution of her credentials? She told me she didn't know. The percentage of implementation of the Citizens' Protector recommendations is slightly less than 70% and is within the European average. The Swedish Twin doesn't know that, because it says - it's mine to determine the failure and to say who and how to correct it. If that someone doesn't, they'll react to the government and ask their minister why his ministry isn't working? If by any chance the Government doesn't ask the minister, and that almost never happens, then the National Assembly will ask the Government. It's not the job of amann to do that. Today, and I would like to commend this, for the first time, the National Assembly has before it a proposal to conclude one of the resolution committees, which says that the National Assembly is asking the Government quarterlyly to deliver a list of unexecuted recommendations from the Citizens' Protectors, as well as reasons for not fulfilling these recommendations. If you adopt that conclusion and, more importantly, if you implement it, make sure that the rights of Serbian citizens are significantly improved. It's about reforming the administration. In addition to what was badly done at the political level, the government's relations with corruption have been moved. Citizens are shown a clear political will to deal with corruption. But, MPs, you should know that ministers can't be anti-corruption fighters. The anti-corruption fighters are daily the ones I listed in the report, which is more than 30 republican inspections - market inspection, labour inspectorate, sanitary, health care inspection for medicines, tourist, exchange inspectorate, veterinary inspection, water industry etc. I can't just have ministers fighting corruption. These people, thousands of them get paid by taxpayers, there's not enough authority, there's not enough authority and there's not enough responsibility. Every day these inspectors fail to establish illegality, including corruption. If by any chance they do, they often find themselves having a problem, if they've had their powers covered by someone who's powerful in this country. I call on you to go from the government, and based on the data from the specific control procedures conducted by the Citizens' Protector, these are not my knowledge through the media, my associates go to state authorities, question people, take statements, watch documents, so I ask you on this basis to ask the ministers to provide what is their legal duty, to provide independent and efficient work of state inspections. It's a matter of activity. Every year since the establishment of the Citizens' Protector has 30% more work to do. On the one hand, it is not surprising, and on the other hand it is not bad -- you know that Serbian citizens have confidence in institutions. It is also good that in 22% of the cases the authorities that are informed that the Citizens' Protector has received a complaint about their work and after I ask them questions that arise from the complaint, they say – we have made a mistake, we correct the mistake. But it's not good that there are system failures and that there are people who think they're above the law. You will see that the state ministries, especially the Ministry of Forces, are very quick to meet the recommendations and you will see that some very small, very sheltered state authorities consider or the public authorities feel that the law does not apply to them. If we don't make sure that those who are deaf about established irregularities insist on their right to violate the rights of citizens, on their rights under quotes, if we don't find a way for them to answer for their inadequacy and their unconsciousness, we won't achieve much. A year ago, I proposed, or initiated, amendments to the Law on the Protector of Citizens to make it possible to work more efficiently. A year has passed and the bill has been returned after the new constitution of the National Assembly. It has been a year I still have 30 people to respond to 40,000 demands from Serbian citizens. Each of these requirements is a document, documented, each citizen has been identified, every council he is deemed to have written down, every recommendation in the process has been published on the website of the Protector of Citizens. So I'm now responsible for saying, I won't be able to guarantee much longer for the quality of the work of this institution under these conditions. At the same time, dear MPs, by amending the budget, you are predicting organs that have not existed so far and you are giving them significant funds. I've been informed that you've predicted the existence of an office for quick answers. No one consulted me, and I'm the only state body, I, as the Guardian of Citizens, who, in his legal description of the job, has custody of good administration. No one consulted me on the need for a good answer office to be made. Come on, he didn't consult me, but the basic principle of good administration is that every body gives quick answers about its work, not that a third body will be formed to answer the question about the work of someone else, quickly and pay it. So if there are tens of millions of dinars for new organs, I don't know how we can look a man in the eye without a job, whose family has nothing to eat and say there's no money for social aid enough, and I look at people like that by the description of my work every day in the eyes. I don't think I'm going to take any more of your time by showing the report I believe it's detailed enough. I'll be happy to answer your questions, and I'll apologize in advance even though I didn't get an apology, one hour I'll have to go out, my deputy will come in my place. Namely, this session has been scheduled and delayed several times, the deadlines have been moved, I've moved my responsibilities towards other people and today I can't avoid it, I'm going to have to leave in an hour and I'll be back after the meeting I have to have. Unfortunately, my deputy, although elected by the votes of the MPs, therefore, was not elected by the Government but by the National Assembly, my deputy would not have the right to speak to you because such an interpretation is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I apologize for that, but I'm sure he'll tell me anything you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19299	The word is Dr. Neven Petrusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first to express my satisfaction that last year's report has been the subject of the National Assembly's committee's attention, which has also earned the attention of women's parliamentary networks in the part in which it relates to the achievement of gender equality and, of course, because today is the subject of your attention. As you know, the one who referred to the previous year was not the subject of discussion in the congregation. The fact that we're discussing this report today makes us happy and that's a good sign, I'd say. The report in front of you actually has a double function, and that's what the law says. On the one hand, it is there to show a real picture of the situation in achieving equality, to point to key problems both in social groups and in those areas of social relations where discrimination is most common. On the other hand, this report provides, in a way, the review and work of the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, Independent and Independent Body, which, as you know, is established by the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination with one single task to deal with one single law, which is the right to freedom from discrimination. I hope this report of ours with the data contained in it is somehow fulfilling and accomplishing both tasks. What is the characteristic of the report that is before you and how it differs from the previous two that we have submitted to the National Assembly is that it gives a presentation of one of the research that we conducted at the end of last year, a study of public opinion that should show what citizens and citizens of Serbia are like when it comes to discrimination and how they see this phenomenon, what their views are in terms of ethnic, social distance towards individual social groups. Of course, we wanted to know if there was a Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and what he was doing and what his jurisdiction was. This research is valuable, and I believe it's worth your attention. I'm sure those who work on different policies in different areas can have very good indicators in which we actually have to work intensively to change the state of consciousness. The research shows, and I'm only going to indicate one single piece of information, that 18% of our citizens and citizens have extremely discriminatory views. Also, it shows that one half of citizens and citizens would not discriminate but would not condemn discrimination, would not react in the event of discrimination. It's also something we're worried about. The survey also showed that we have the largest ethnic distance towards Albanians, Croats, Muslims, Bosnians, and in fourth place are Roma, Roma who in some previous studies may have been at some point in the first place. When it comes to social distance, it concerns the data of how large our citizens are that LGBT wouldn't even be in its neighborhood, they wouldn't be in the family, they wouldn't be with them if they had anything to do with it. What is our relationship with HIV sufferers and other marginalised social groups? These data along with what they are and our findings regarding how much our education system is able to actually get the first knowledge of the life that surrounds them in children we educate or at least so should be for life in an open, tolerated society, a democratic society. How many really these teaching materials, this teaching internship, but also teaching practice, allow children not to learn the definitions of what non-discrimination is, what human rights are, what it is, what tolerance, but to train them to do in our everyday life, from small legs, how they will do it later in life as adults, actually practice tolerance. One of our recommendations as you could see is that in the education system we are changing something and there is much to change, concerns the fact that although it was necessary to adopt a special sublegal act that would actually regulate the reaction to the case of discrimination in educational institutions. It wasn't done until today, which I was talking about on committees. I just want to remind you of some information from our report. In 2012, in this period which relates to our report, we had an inflow of 40% more complaints than in 2011. It should not be concluded from this that discrimination is increased, but should, in fact, be kept in mind that the trustee institution is more visible. I would be simple, in a way and free to say that I believe that an increased number of complaints is something that is the result of our work, because in 2012 we visited over 60 cities in Serbia, including Roma settlements and other settlements where displaced persons from Kosovo live, refugees. We tried to explain first how they could easily recognize discrimination, on the basis of which they knew whether they were discriminated against and, of course, explain what we were doing, how to simply address us. On the other hand, what also concerns us when we sum up the complaints that have come to us, is that over 40% of complaints refer to discrimination committed by public authorities at all levels. We are particularly concerned about that, and what we also noticed and what I want to share here with you is that many lawyers, employed by local self-governments, and actually from what they write to us when they declare complaints, show one fundamental lack of knowledge of anti-discrimination regulations. We were very often able to convince ourselves that people do not know that there is a Law on Discrimination, or ban. Our task is also to prepare one programme, together with other social actors, that some lawyers, those who work to prepare different decisions made by local self-governments, especially those, but also other authorities, offer one corpus of knowledge, show them that when they create some decisions in their jurisdiction, they themselves have to test those decisions from the aspect of discriminatory rules, as our work was directed at dealing with individual cases of discrimination, and when I say to individual ones, I mean cases of discrimination between individuals, but also cases of discrimination against the whole group of people. We have used our many powers, our legal authority to direct recommendations to public authorities and other persons to take measures to improve the situation. On the one hand, it has improved in the sense that the causes of discrimination are eliminated, that provisions contained in various acts that are actually discriminatory in their nature, but to improve the system of protection against discrimination. So 117 of these recommendations are addressed and it seems to me that they are quite specific and provide clear guidance for the treatment of those concerned. These recommendations fall into the order of those we bring, which are the least implemented. I must say that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, as well as the Protector of Citizens, can point out the problem of not implementing recommendations this time. Many of the recommendations we have made are recommendations that are both in practice and in what reports by international institutions have been confirmed as correct. There was no need to initiate proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, in respect of discrimination, in certain cases, because in the context of this particular case of discrimination, there was already a recommendation from the Commissioner, and in fact, it often happens that all these arguments happen again when it is decided. A few days ago, the Serbian Constitutional Court had to carry out the procedure and to determine that the provision of the article was 85. The CAP unconstitutional, although we actually gave a recommendation more than a year ago, before this law was passed, to eliminate this provision, because they have not matured the conditions that we have, since we do not yet have a well-founded, effective, functional system of free legal assistance. I also want to say that our data suggests that when it comes to the basis of discrimination, complaints relating to discrimination appear here among complaints, based on disability, nationality of ethnic origin, with most of those relating to Roma discrimination, then gender, religious and political beliefs and age. It's somewhere by the number of complaints that have come to us, but from that it can't be concluded that discrimination on these grounds is the most widespread, because different factors affect it. We have a highly developed non-governmental sector and civil society organisation that works in certain areas and which are very agile in using the authority to appeal to the Trustee, on the one hand, is a significant factor. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that the largest number of complaints refer to discrimination in the field of labour and employment, which still does not mean that there is the most pronounced, but people, when it comes to these rights, are the most prepared and motivated to seek protection from discrimination, because it is one right which is a fundamentally existential right. With this in mind, I would like to conclude, when it comes to monitoring the phenomenon of discrimination, one of our recommendations was that Serbia approaches the adoption of a strategy to fight discrimination and I am very happy, I believe that all of us are glad that such a strategy has been made, and I expect that the measures provided for in the anti-discrimination strategy, in fact very quickly, because the strategy has been followed by the action plan, will give the appropriate effects. One part of our recommendation referred to the need to establish a functional system that would ensure that data from different institutions, which are relevant for the emergence of discrimination, to be collected, to give good methodological procedures, to ensure that this phenomenon is monitored and to see whether these creative measures we take to combat discrimination are effective or not. We've started new litigations in this period that the report refers to, five of them. Also, our experience shows that we still have a lot to do that both legal professionals, judges, but also other professionals, including lawyers, are actually increasing the level of understanding of the phenomenon of discrimination itself, increasing the level and understanding of what are today international regulations that can be applied directly. Why do I say that? Because it is not enough to know what it says in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, to apply it properly, we need to understand what values are behind every human right guaranteed there. It seems to me that when you look at how judicial and other institutions function, there are certain problems, and there are those who still don't understand it in the best way possible. It is not enough to state that in some of the judgments that we have received, where we report as prosecutors, a European Court of Human Rights verdict, it is necessary to apply access to the methodology that the European Court of Human Rights itself applies, when deciding whether or not it is discrimination. In addition to what our post-festum activity is, we tried, as much as our options allowed, to act preventively, to promote the idea of equality, of non-discrimination, to, together with NGOs, except the media, influence the change in the state of consciousness, to raise the level of knowledge. We have participated in many public hearings, just in this congregation and tried alone, when there were some important questions, such as whether there will be as many women here in the congregation as there are today many other issues that have been the subject of public listening, to influence such solutions. We also made some recommendations that we expect to be fulfilled. What I'm trying to say is, our work where we're members of international different associations like the European Network of Equalities, is that they're closely monitoring our work and assessing it positively. We, of course, use the experience of other similar bodies and what the views we take in individual cases are based on the standards that apply today and which the European Court of Human Rights has also built, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, since we are seeking the EU and this may be relevant to us, and that court also has a rich practice, although it is less famous than the European Court of Human Rights. The very fact that we are proposed to be in the Equinet Board from autumn, somehow for us, but she would say for Serbia, too, is a confirmation that this body of ours has been positioned somewhere and that we are assessing that its practice can continue to develop on its own and that it has support. The strategic plan we've come up with, the communication strategy, that's all of the things that will allow us to continue to develop. Our cooperation with the National Assembly, with its committees, is much better than at the very beginning, and these conclusions that will be the subject of attention today, show that we understand and understand the essence of what our recommendations are. We're still not satisfied with how much cooperation we've developed, how much we've done in 2012 with the unions. The number of complaints the trade unions make to us, although they are authorized and able to do so, is very small and we already have some plans to deepen cooperation with the unions and I believe that the consequence of that and their weak resources may be, but on the other hand, that what we need is what we do, the way we work, to kind of bring people closer to the union activists and activists. Co-operation with NGOs, with other civil society organisations, with media responsible for the phenomenon of discrimination, understands their role in promoting the idea of discrimination, is good, but of course we also have the media in relation to which we have to determine that they have committed discrimination, that they have published inappropriate content. Eleven books, manuals, brochures that we published and with the Judicial Academy, with judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, are part of what our overall efforts are to spread knowledge and raise awareness of people. Employees in the professional service of the trustee, 18 of them, including those who carry out professional work and do not work directly on our subjects, have been significantly improved and their professional competences, the institution itself has become more visible, accessible, more accessible, which of course does not mean that we are satisfied with the situation, there is much more to be done. Here I expect support and I see that even such conclusions, in some way, are to give us hope that all those of whom we depend in some way in providing conditions for our better work, which is above all the problem of solving space, as is indicated in the reports of international organisations, which ensures that we increase the number of people in our systemization act, which the National Assembly adopted, and should be in accordance with this act of 60, and it is with me 18. So these are very modest capacities, given the increase in the volume of work. Of course, we need to be available and not only in Belgrade, but also in other parts of Serbia. The biggest complaint comes from Belgrade, slightly less from Vojvodina. It's not from southern Serbia, it's not from western Serbia. Our idea and, I mean, one plan that has been established by a strategic plan, to try to form small regional centres somewhere, let it be one person in those centres employed, but there people will be able to get information and we'll be able to encourage them to recognize discrimination, not to tolerate it and react, it's the task of all of us. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and all employees in the Service of Trustees are indeed committed to the mission we have and we understand it not only as our professional task, but as one mission which, with pleasure, with all our capacities, without regretting the effort, indeed has the best way to accomplish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19301	Thank you. Do the committees want the word? (No) Do the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? (Yes) The word has Mr. Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19302	Dear President, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SPO and the DHSS support this kind of parliamentary action, strengthening independent regulatory bodies, because we believe that the power of the citizens' institution must be strengthened if we seek the values of modern Western democracies. Only small people think history begins with them. In that sense, the problems that have been inherited somehow after 20 centuries or over the last decade 20 centuries have been thrown under the carpet, their heritage and everything that has implicated an ugly present. We welcome the fact that the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, supported the adoption in this parliament of the law on the opening of the file, because several times the SPO, and last time together with the DHSS, tried to put into the agenda of this Parliament's session, is one such law. We, thinking that this is a necessary assumption in order to solve all those inherited problems, have sought on several occasions from people who fought for democratic values, from people who promised, as one of the main tasks, to open the file on 5 October. So one of the 10 promises, or one of the 10 items of the contract with the DOS people on October 5th, was the opening of the file. To this day it wasn't done. It wasn't done for many reasons. Those who say that there is nothing in the files, have to answer the question – why so much resistance to opening the file? Those who say the file was destroyed or that it was destroyed, we know it well by the then DB after October 5th, for months on the VMA polygon, must be responsible for that. How did the Stasi agents in East Germany respond for destroying the files of their secret service? We forget that we live exactly that legacy, that in the state services, the state structures, there are people who are heirs or who did everything to make certain political and tycoon, political and business structures take as much power as possible and as much state money. From September 12, 1944, I purposely cover the period from the founding of OZNA to the day of today, because it is the subject of everything in the files, from September 12, 1944, from the moment of the establishment of OZNA, to 1946, about 100,000 people were killed and thrown into mass graves throughout Serbia, only because they were different political commitment. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Resolution 1481, asked all former communist countries to bring to their parliaments a resolution that would dare the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes. This was not done in Serbia, it was done in Hungary, so we brought a partial a few days ago, which is supported by the SPS and the DHSS as a parliamentary club, the condemnation of the crimes of partisan or members of the Partisan movement on the territory of Vojvodina over the Hungarian population. So, in Serbia, it was killed and it already exists, only in three years, from a commission dealing with these crimes, 60,000 names and last names of patriots, whose grave is unknown. Are these the basic human rights that should be dealt with by the Protector of the Citizens and this State? Germany will not rest until it lists its victims and all serious states treat their victims in this way. Europe has asked us to bring one such resolution, because the legacy is very strong, because on several occasions I have talked about it and I will say again, that the descendants of those who took the fairies on Dedinj after 1945, who thought the crime was worth it, have been deeply rooted in all the state structures since the Second World War to the day of today. They are also Europe's biggest opponents. The European Commission has said Serbia will not become an EU member until the moment the secret files are opened. What is the task of these people in the public service? It is precisely to pave Serbia's path to the EU because Serbia's entry into the EU is a fact mirror in which they, their crimes, their links and their steps, will make Serbia more unhappy, defiled, defiled, more unhappy. Because they live by principle – the worse Serbia is, the better they are. We need to see, and I'm guessing it's in those files, and traces of a bloody step, traces of bloody money, murder of journalists, political insinuation in the 1990s. It's impossible for the State Security to start its archives after October 5th without these marks being found in the files. In Bulgaria, a reminder, two years ago, a parliamentary file opening commission found that four former ministers, one prime minister and 15 Bulgarian bishops, were co-workers of their secret services. We would be naive if we thought the situation was not similar in Serbia. We also need to find out in the draft law submitted by the SPO to the office, in the procedure it was submitted to the adoption of this Parliament on several occasions, in this law written in the experiences of the modern, now EU member states, former communist countries, so people who have recognised the grounds on which the history of the second half of the 20th century was built in their countries, so there must be the names of those people, and that is the basis of human rights, who have stalked their victims and whose stalking has produced the deadly consequences and the great misfortune for those people who have been arrested. So it doesn't just have to happen every time it warns this parliament what it takes to do. In his exposé, too, the prime minister said he would open the files for this term, and we do not see any indication of such a step. I believe that the greatest value and every Christian thinks that, every man who is a member of civilization, not anti-civilization, is the greatest value of human life. I think the huge victims behind us, that many people have gone unpunished, that history has repeated to us precisely because some thought that crime was worth it, because they were rewarded for their crimes during the Second World War, which was done in Maglai, say, it's a street here in Belgrade, or, say, at the Battle Stadium near Morava, where my great-grandfather and many fathers and grandfathers were killed, or, say, to read the testimony of Milan Tresnic, who took part in all of that, or to look at the names of the murdered hosts who were guilty just because they thought otherwise, and their list had already reached about 60 thousand names, to look back at what was happening to us, and then some organizations would not ask to celebrate again on July 7th, rather through rehabilitation, through the return of the property of those people, buried all those wounds from the past and tried to build a bright and a better outcome. I don't have anything against anyone. I'm not talking here against the fluids of the Partisan movement, because I think Serbia is a country whose anti-fascist role is unequivocal. Unlike many, we had two anti-fascist movements. Many countries that have in any way talked to fascism try to minimize their role in World War II or erase it from their history. I think Serbia should be proud of both the Partisan and the Equality Movement and all those people who gave their lives in the fight against fascism. But in order for history to be complete, and in order to be able to move forward and in the 21st century, to know what are the hands that have been able to go unpunished into modern society, and to carry their bloody traces from the past, I think it is necessary to decide on such steps. Once again, I would like to thank the Citizens' Protector for supporting the adoption of one of these laws, and because I think we could co-operate next year and all the parliamentary parties to join together, to pass the best possible law that could solve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19303	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19304	Thank you, Vice President. I must say, it is a great pleasure to talk about independent institutions, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I lined them up by age, not by weight. I think they're all the same. If this session had happened yesterday, I would not have had that satisfaction, secondly, and I changed my whole concept of speech because yesterday, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled by the decision of the BIA, which was complained by the Youth for Human Rights Initiative and on the basis of the recommendation of the Commissioner for Free Access to Information, i.e. to access information of general importance, ruled in favour of the Youth Initiative, i.e. The trustee for access to information. I want to remind you of this case that started in 2005, when the BIA rejected the request of the Youth Initiative to deliver the number of persons whose electronic communications were being monitored. That's when BIA said it couldn't, that it was a state secret. The initiative appealed to the Commissioner who found that the Free Access Act had been violated and ordered that the requested information be supplied. It took three years for the BIA to appeal to the Supreme Court on this recommendation and the Supreme Court rejected their appeal. In 2008, she informed the Initiative that she does not possess information that she does not want to give, which is a state secret. They complained to the European Court of Human Rights, and he made a decision yesterday, so I congratulate both the Initiative and the Trustee, that within three months the BIA must provide the requested data. I think it's one of the very good examples that this independent institution actually has to establish a different legal order in Serbia. Namely, they are, above all, the basic mechanism, not to say the only one at this time, except for Parliament, of course, the control of a state that, as we know, is always inclined to use its power beyond all control. These institutions have become institutions in their work against citizens' trust, because they protect their rights, civil and human, protect respect for the Constitution and legality. In my opinion, they have become the basis for establishing a rule of law in which everyone, including state institutions, respects the laws in which the laws and independent judiciary protects citizens and citizens from self-will and abuse of power from state institutions. Reports that are ahead of us contain some paradoxical contradictions. In any report, when you read that an institution's work is increasing, the institutions should be satisfied. In this case, unfortunately, this is an indication that the problems dealing with these institutions are unfortunately not solved and that the state is not doing everything it takes, that citizens and citizens have no reason to complain to these institutions about the violation of their rights. The fact that there is an increasing number of resolved cases and that there is a growing number of institutions that respond to the recommendations they receive, says that some things are changing in a positive direction and that we may be fewer victims and poor administrations and discrimination on all grounds, in all areas of life than health, education, etc. There's one more thing in common with these reports, and that's to say the seriousness to which they're written. They are very precise and accurately describing the problems they are facing, giving very precise information about it, and based on these data, it is possible to actually create some new policies that would change the situation in these areas in a positive way. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the institutions that should use this data in proposing new laws do not, so we have had a situation where the Ministry of Education does not follow the recommendations of the Citizens' Protector and Anti-Corruption Agency on textbooks, free of charge, and printing textbooks. They just went deaf about it and said they'd do it the minute they changed the law on it, and that's who knows when. It's common to these institutions to do that, in fact, in very difficult conditions. Not only because of the lack of funds, which is always an excuse for this kind of inactivity, but also because there is a silent obstruction within the system against these institutions. This is because they point to the lack of the system, because they require state administration, health care, social protection, education, police, security agencies and that I do not list any further, to respect the laws and to respect the rights of citizens and citizens. They rarely do, they resist it in all possible ways, and most effectively, the question of the conditions in which the agencies work, i.e. The institutions are working both on two trustees and on the protection of citizens, and on the number of people involved, and they also pointed out in recommendations that are part of all reports. These recommendations are indeed one, actually an action plan that the Government and the Assembly should adhere to. An increased number of requirements for all independent institutions is something that must concern us, because it speaks of one legal uncertainty. Mr. Protector Sasa Jankovic mentioned here some of the key issues that citizens and citizens face today, a question of naked existence, for which our grief is not the right address. At the same time, increasing the number of human rights violations, increasing the number of infringements, i.e. Discrimination, an increase in the number of denials of information, is something that says that this system is kept as long as it can from any change and that reform will not be a letter at all, unless it essentially changes. Also, I think it is very important that these institutions have submitted a number of legislative initiatives, and have managed to bring down some of the legal solutions that existed in the current laws in the Constitutional Court. First of all, it is the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on VBA, VOA, BIA, and, in part, the Code on Criminal Procedure, which will all come into the process. It is important that the Constitutional Court, acting on a proposal by the Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector, has made a decision that the relevant provisions of the Law on VBA and the VOA are not in agreement with the Constitution of Serbia. These are the provisions that were spoken of in public, and they refer to lists, i.e. to track down the records you've been talking to and how you've been on the phone without a court order. So that's inadmissible, that's what the public pointed to, that the security agencies didn't look back at, that's what the government didn't look back at, but the Constitutional Court positively responded to that, to my big surprise. It has already been said here that these institutions work very closely with civil society and I think that the success of their work could be a model based on which other institutions, ministries and the entire government, and this assembly, too, could turn more to that kind of cooperation and listen more to not only through public hearings, but also through public debate processes, the voice of the laws that we bring here. I think it's true that the legal framework is relatively well arranged at this point, that there are still some things that need to be done, but that we should work together. I urge all of us here in the assembly, as I call on all relevant people in the government, to read carefully the recommendations that exist in all three reports and to make policies on each of these independent bodies based on them. In a report by the Information Protection Commissioner and for free access to personal information and data protection, there is one example where, for the method of archiving and measuring particularly sensitive data, the government should have brought it by May 2009, but it has not yet done so. This kind of delay in adopting legal solutions is something that creates legal uncertainty and something we cannot deal with. I'm sorry Mr. Jankovic isn't here, because he's recognized. It should be the last distance. When all the other legal drugs were exhausted and the citizen couldn't get the satisfaction of his rights, then he should be that last link, that last step. Unfortunately, it is usually the first step, because citizens do not trust institutions that should deal with it first. In that sense, something should be done to improve the legal system. What's about to come as a judicial shift I doubt it'll change anything, but based on the recommendations it should definitely do. I'll remind you of some other successes these institutions have achieved. I'll remind you that we were at the border of the problem BiH had with JMBG, because one number of children had no more certified health books, so they couldn't be treated. It is again based on intervention by independent institutions prevented and they have obtained that right. We have avoided citizens seeking their rights on the street, if what they did in BiH. I will remind you that in the cooperation of these institutions, the problem of legally invisible persons has been resolved and that today many of them already have documents on which to employ and function normally in the society in which they live. I will also remind you of two recommendations made by the Trustee for Equality, as I call it, to fight discrimination, which, in terms of registering religious communities, must be changed to the Law on registration of small religious communities, which places them in an unequal position towards so-called. traditional religious. It has to change and it will be, I'm sure, one of the demands, if and ever, when we get that date. I'm sure it'll be one of the questions on the agenda. I think it's better to stop than to heal. In that sense, I think that many recommendations are actually recommendations for preventing some problems, not always for effectively solving the problems that some solutions have brought. Also, the issue is, as you know, a free legal aid issue. It is also a civilizational fluid which, unfortunately, is not respected by us and, in my view, is also one of the priorities that legislators and we here in the Assembly and in the Government should work seriously and ensure that every citizen can have free legal assistance that cannot be conditioned by any professional or lawyer status etc. What is the key to the problems we are facing and what I think is also one of the recommendations spoken by the Commissioner, is that we don't actually have basic information in the school system for students and the concept of discrimination and the necessity to do something about it, only in the context of civic education does this exist as one of the points, i.e.. as one of the topics on which the students who decide on the subject are informed. Now we have a case, since we have passed laws that were related to education, that a member who says is deleted from the roof law – an understanding of diversity. When you delete from the above Education Act – understanding diversity, you are actually working on discrimination and then and in that case, so to speak, the state is creating itself new problems and, unfortunately, little can, however many independent institutions, change something. So long as human rights, the fight against discrimination, the right to access information are not part of the educational system, we will have a problem, and so to speak, we will have successful reports in which the number of cases is increasing, instead of having successful reports in which the number of cases is decreasing and in which I say they threaten to lose their jobs, these trustees and the Citizens' Protector. That, of course, is not going to happen, because the moment that this would happen, all the disadvantages of this government and that tendency, which I mentioned at first, every authority would use its power beyond the law itself. So I am very glad that this Assembly has recognized the importance of independent institutions in its own right time. I'm glad she recognized it based, first of all, on certain pressures from civil society, from NGOs. I am pleased that this Assembly has unanimously, which one of the few cases, declared itself in the election of the Protector of Citizens. I think it's something that binds us all, that first of all, in my view, we're more numerous here while this issue is being debated and secondly, that obliges us to show a lot of respect to all citizens and citizens, among other things, by respecting all their rights, and their rights are that we represent them here in their best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19305	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19306	Ladies and gentlemen, when the reports of these three independent institutions are carefully read, an intriguing but logical question arises – what kind of country do we live in? There's almost no one in this country who hasn't asked a question like that for once. I believe that's the way it is here in the National Assembly. What exactly is this about? Who are these institutions protecting us from or better to say from whom or what are they protecting Serbian citizens from? Believe it or not, to the greatest extent of the state itself, of course, the citizens of Serbia themselves. The high degree of human rights is the ideal of every democratic society. These rights are guaranteed by many international conventions, charters, declarations and agreements. This high degree of protection of human rights guarantees both our Constitution and the large number of laws dealing with these issues. In fact, every law voted in this House, even though it implicitly included the highest standards of human rights protection. What happens in practice? Many citizens face the inability to achieve even the fundamental human rights guaranteed by our Constitution, such as the right to work, sufficient social assistance, adequate health care, education, the right to objective information and such. The poverty of our society and the economic crisis have distanced many from the possibility of enjoying a minimum of guaranteed rights. The people say – when misery enters the door, love flies through the window. The continued poverty of society has also led to great alienation among people, the lack of solidarity and the ever-lower threshold of tolerance between different social groups. In these circumstances, how is the state, or authority, or apparatus running the state placed? According to these reports, in many acts of haughtiness, irresponsiblely, violently and without any awareness of what the role of government is. To remind you, the government must always serve the people. We all know it's not always like that. Powers based on force, threats, fear and corruption are usually produced by a subsidiary society, without initiative and free thinking that is easy to manipulate. This creates a society without a future, a society where an individual is completely powerless and under the control of all-powerful bureaucracy and finally, a society that changes only through conflicts and revolutions. None of us want to live in such a society, for the most part, because we've had that experience before. The question is, how far have we gone from all this? Very little. Serbia is now largely a closed, intolerant society with corruption, haughtiness, bureaucracy, intricacies, unhappiness and various forms of discrimination. People are still leaving this country mass, and few want to go back. Perhaps the tone of my speech is too critical, especially when I speak to the National Assembly from the position of the head of the parliamentary group belonging to the congregation majority. However, my address is not a criticism of either the former or these governments whose mandates are covered by these reports. It is, above all, an expression of my concern for the situation in which Serbia has been in place for decades, which seeks to be preserved because we lack the critical will to change and abandon bad habits and myths of the past. The current government shows its determination to make a positive step towards fighting corruption and crime, a historic agreement with Kosovo Albanians and a consensus on Serbia's European path. The government is clearly defined to move towards reforms that will permanently and positively change Serbia. In order to succeed, it is necessary to put social values, which promote work, tolerance, solidarity, responsibility, high above work, corruption, intolerance and haughtiness. Of course, the condition for this is the existence of this political will that is always a trigger, but it must not be the only and strongest institution in society, and sometimes it is. That is why we must make every effort to provide these institutions with all possible support and assistance, because they are lighthouses on the way to Serbia to become an open and modern European society. What can we draw as a common thread of all these reports? First of all, we have a solid legal framework and defined institutions that do not have enough material and human capacities. So, in all the reports, we have a situation where there are insufficient numbers of employees and there are no adequate spatial conditions for uninterrupted daily activities. If we consider all these institutions to be extremely positive and necessary, then this kind of restriction has no justification or purpose. Secondly, from year to year, there is an increasing number of complaints and demands that citizens protect human rights. That points to a few things. First of all, people have more and more trust and information on the way and effects of the trustee and the Protector of citizens. That makes sense more complaints and demands. It is possible that an increasing number of complaints indicate a deterioration in the situation in certain areas, which should always be taken with the reserve. Also, information on the different rights of citizens, which are increasingly available to them through electronic media and the internet, contributes to their growing confidence in order to make these rights come true faster. At the end of all the institutions, whose reports we are considering, have an extremely good public image, receive a lot of praise and awards from international organisations and achieve exceptional co-operation with the NGO sector and citizens' associations. So they have full legitimacy and enjoy the undivided support of citizens, above all. In so long ago, it obliges them to work more responsibly in the interests of the citizens and for now they are fulfilling that mission. In particular, I would like to commend here a report by the Protectors, which in a systematic and comprehensive way, without excessively harsh words clearly points to serious social problems. This report, like the other two, clearly illustrates the nature of our government, prejudice, delusions and myths that are deeply rooted in our society. These reports may not be pictured as Nusic, but in any case they are anatomically cut across the state apparatus, administrations, political parties and a good display of the objective impotence of individuals against the often alienated state. There are concrete examples of eclutant violations of human rights by citizens by state authorities. Both the haughtiness and the passion of bureaucratized parts of the state apparatus are shown. The ways in which different institutions show disrespect for these independent institutions are also described, leaving deaf and silent on all their recommendations. We, MPs, are obliged to force the government, first of all, and some local self-governments to do their utmost to honour the recommendations of independent institutions. The reports detailed the data, provided a presentation of the situation in different aspects, human rights areas, beginning with economic, social rights, through civil and political, all the way to judicial reform, the fight against corruption and crime, objective information, cultural rights, the prevention of discrimination, the protection of personal data and other rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution. Reports detail co-operation, i.e. not co-operation with individual ministries and state institutions. What encourages is the growing number of institutions that ignore the recommendations of independent institutions. To become a modern society of satisfied citizens, we need a public sector based on the principles of good administration. This implies a responsible administration that is not itself a goal and that serves its citizens. Professionalism, expertise, integrity, freedom from party slavery are the only possible direction to form such a administration. Today we are still far from it, and this commitment in many causes ridicule and infidelity. I have no doubt that in the very near future we will be close to this ideal. On this road we need valuable help and Protectors of citizens and trustees for the protection of equality and Commissioners for information of public importance and protection of personal data. Perhaps one day, in the far future, these institutions will become meaningless and superfluous. Today, however, they are precious to the whole of society, and for many citizens they are the only thing that can bring about their torment and problem. That's why we have a common task and care that these institutions remain independent, that they can develop their full capacities and protect themselves from our bad influence. When I say ours, I mean the influence of political parties. Two suggestions for the end. The first is to make it clear in the next report where we have made progress as a society, and where we have gone back, starting with this report that you present to us today. That'll tell us clearly which way we're going. The second is that, through the Public Service or other national media, you set up periodic emissions in which you will present your results and point to eliciting examples of human rights violations and unacceptable state actions, when it comes to citizens' rights. The Court of Justice will be far more effective than the verdicts of the not reformed judiciary. Of course, we'll support all your reports in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19307	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19308	The chairman, gentlemen of our institutions, fellow MPs, is pleased that today all MPs speak commendably of your work. I think you've done your job and earned it and that our lives, I'm saying maybe from some experience of my own, national minorities, you've led to some European standards. I also want to say that LSV will support all three reports, with us being so, commendable about your work, but I see all MPs are saying so. I want to say at the very beginning, in addition to all this state relationship, perhaps even the government, according to your work which is in some segments and terrifying, because the government and some judicial authorities, the state authorities do not support, in some cases, your work. We know well that you work without rooms, that you work with a small number of employees, that you work with a small budget that is insufficient to perform your functions, not only in the field, but also in your regular activities. Also, I mean, besides all that, you're doing a really good job of yours. First, I'm going to talk about the work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The report is comprehensive and reviewed provides insight into the current situation and key problems in achieving the protection of equality. The report shows that the Trustee for the Protection of Equality and its team did not only act on complaints, but that they acted preventively to combat discrimination, raise the level of knowledge and awareness of the public about the problems of discrimination and the adverse consequences it has caused. The recommendations given in the report, on the basis of which the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality formulated the conclusions, give clear guidance to state bodies in which they must act in order to eradicate discrimination. The work of the Commissioner has confirmed that we need such a body through us, that it is necessary for its capacities, visibility and availability to be at a higher level. The report in front of us is useful, among other things, and because it contains data on the attitudes of citizens and citizens, how much they are able to recognise discrimination, to oppose it and the attitude of citizens and citizens towards individual minority and marginalised social groups. These data are a valuable source of knowledge of us with them and what is more important shows that there is much to be done to become a tolerance society that provides equal opportunities for all. Over the past year, according to the report, 117 recommendations were made to public authorities to improve equality, and this report includes 15 general recommendations. The competent authorities are expected to implement these recommendations, as the suppression of discrimination is one of the important tasks in the area of protection and promotion of human and rule of law. The work of the Commissioner and her team for the protection of equality are a real example of how each individual's human rights are protected. The amount of work that this institution has, unfortunately, still does not reflect the true state of affairs, because I think that a much greater number of those who are discriminating this society in one way or another and whose rights are threatened or denied, and the task of all of us is to promote and support the work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. This is the only institution that is necessary for this society and this country to provide protection and guarantee respect for human rights and the freedoms of any person who is threatened for any reason. Also, the existence of the Civil Protection Institution echoed positive among citizens, but far beyond our borders. I am not just saying this because of Mr. Jankovic's personality, who is really doing his job well, but also because Serbia needed the institution of Simeon, who exists around the world, and is everywhere seeking to be a universalised brake of the self-will of every administration and to maintain its activities at the heart of its attention a citizen, not gaining power. Also, the report of the Commissioner for Public Information should be commended and said that this is a good trend and confirmation that citizens have given full confidence to the institution, and he has given them his various assistances.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19309	Thank you. In the words of the People's Parliament, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19310	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the independent regulatory bodies, which you started to teach us yesterday by being here on time, to us who weren't here so we could start this session yesterday, you filed your reports exactly as the law says, on March 15th and March 28th. So, three months, those reports are ahead of us. We had time to get to know the materials you gave us. Reports have been made truly remarkable, with a terrible amount of data and very concise. Everything's been given in a clear and clear way. Everything you wanted to tell us, we were able to interpret and read in your reports. But aside from the committees considering material in the report, we didn't exactly hope to have the opportunity to really start taking these reports seriously. I think it's important that we deal with them because they're really a picture of the state of human rights in the country. On the other hand, I could say freely, and it's going to be the way I'm going to look at this thing in your reports, that it's the state of state institutions, that's the state of the state of the apparatus, that's the state of the country we live in. We have reports from the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data and the Gender Equality Trustee. I'd really like someone to tell me here today, or I'd like to have the motionary explain how he managed to remember to put these three reports together in one, because I don't think so, at least I don't see one element that should bring these three reports together, except they're called reports. Neither the status of these bodies is the same, nor their jurisdiction is the same, and I would really like us as MPs and the National Assembly to talk about this seriously, and not in this way to put everything in one sack, go a little bit, and say, "We will now tell you about how we have experienced your reports." That's very unserious. It's unserious, first of all, to the work you've put into those reports. It is also unserious for Serbian citizens, because Serbian citizens are really ready to hear the state of things objectively, although they experience it at any moment. It is also unserious for us MPs who have dealt seriously with this subject. I'll start with the Commissioner's report on information of public importance. This report actually refers to the implementation of two laws, the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data in 2012. What can we see right now in this report? We can see that there is a strong increase in the number of citizens who address the Commissioner daily. It's very interesting data when we compare how that trend was moving. In 2012, about 7,570 items were, in the field of information 6,037 items, which shows that in fact our institutions, that our state does not realize at all that it is obliged to give citizens information. The second part is data protection, and there's 1.533 examples. When we look at the percentages and look at how the number of objects was moving, it increased in 2012 compared to 2011 by 25%, which is even twice as much as in 2010, three times what it was in 2009 and 17 times more than in 2005 when the body was formed. What can this mean for us MPs? It could mean that the citizens finally understood that they had certain rights and wanted their rights to be achieved. On the other hand, it may mean that they are aware that there are regulatory bodies that can help them exercise their rights. But it can also mean that the state doesn't really understand its role, that something has changed in the status of the state, that some changes have arisen and that the state has to do everything it does publicly. Of course, the state doesn't like it, because it complicates what she wants to do and how she's used to doing, but that's what we have to deal with. Let's see what the report says is the situation in these two areas, in freedom of access to information and in the field of personality data. They're completely different analyses and a completely different condition. It's interesting to see, because it's the same cross-section of the state. Status assessments are different. When we talk about freedom of access to information, there is one upward trend, which means that the state slowly accepts that it has to open up and give information, that this information becomes public. But even though the upward trend is, and although that implies a slightly more active role for the state in that direction, there are also huge problems. I'd like to talk to you about these problems a little bit. For example, in 2012, several thousand violations were committed at the Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Justice. We have all been partially witnesses here in parliament of how this has been violated, how rights of citizens have been violated, but it is simply good to see it in the reports, because it gives one seriousness to what we are talking about right now. The Commissioner himself has warned these two ministries hundreds of times about breaking the law, but believe it or not, no one has ever been brought against a person who violates the law. That's interesting because it's about the ministries. Also, chronically present is the problem of forced execution of the trustee's orders. I have to say, these warrants are binding, even though they don't apply to the state. In the final instance, it is the government that needs to carry out what the trustee has ordered, but the government is not doing it for some reason. And that's an interesting piece of information for us MPs, because the government, everyone who comes here, says it's democratic and will respect the laws that are passed in this House. Because the government does not include itself particularly actively, the number of people who are deaf about the warrant is increasing. So, for example, in public enterprises, which become synonym for corruption, such as Telecom, they have 23 solutions that have been deafened, so the "Serbs of Serbia" follows, so the EPS, and the "Serbigas", so all that we are talking about here in parliament, they are just deafening these warrants. They're silent, and corruption is growing. I must remind the majority of this House, which is not present, but who certainly knows that all the recommendations are, in fact, regulatory bodies, that these institutes are before us today those who defend corruption. The fact that their information is public, that we need to get all the information we're interested in corruption somehow goes into another plan. Because, I'm sorry, nobody dares to go into such big games if they know that all the information in the end has to get to the public. There's no better condition in the ministries either. I listed these two, but the most complaints were on the MUP – 208. Of course, all police administrations are concerned, but simply 208 complaints are indeed one large number. The finance ministry follows with 92 complaints. You know how, we here in parliament sometimes can't get the information we're looking for. If you ask a parliamentary question as an institute, you'll get an answer to everything you haven't asked, but to what you've asked, you can't possibly remember what we need to be answered. When we look at the analysis of the resolved complaints, it shows that authorities have rejected the demands of the applicant, calling on, beware of the reasons why the state does not recognise what its obligation is - the secrecy of information or documents. The state says the information must remain secret. I liked the example I recognized, which refers to the Ministry of Defence, when General Ponos was replaced, who then said in the media that the ministry's budget was being spent irrationally. That's when Minister Sutanovac asked for emergency control. The public has never been familiar with the results of that control. The press has never dealt with it. We don't know the answers to these questions, but it's interesting, General Posh has been replaced. So the only answer we've got, and we haven't asked, is if it's going to be replaced, it's changed, but the answer to this question we haven't got. Since it was invented in the Department of Defense that some information was classified, then the Commissioner tried several times to get that information, got information and revealed us an incredible secret, 14 rows from that very large document was really confidential information. Based on 14 lines, the document was declared classified. I'm sorry, that's not how a serious state behaves. Then, they are called for the abuse of rights by the search engine, so 28-29% of the search engines that are looking for information are declared to actually abuse their rights. So, I abuse my right if I'm interested in why is such a program of measures being done at the Veterinary Authority? It's not abuse of information. Then, calling for a violation of the right to privacy of the person to whom the information applies, we had the opportunity to follow it in the media when it was a matter of personal income, or pay, as it is now called again, some executives and some directors in public enterprises, the figures are enormous, then it was declared private information and we can't get it. Then there is an explanation that this is not about information of public importance, an assessment, let's say, of the EPS that it is not information of public importance. Well, then, there's no legitimate interest in the search engine. Look, let's say the EPS says that information I'm looking for, that I have no legitimate interest in looking for that information. It's completely moved and dislocated, as the children say. Or say – information is already available. That's the most interesting thing, and that's when you, as a national MP, come to some ministry and ask for some information, they say -- it's already available, they don't tell us where it is available, we can't find it, but, well, it's already available. Now interestingly, in 2012, the Trustee made 47 conclusions on punishment, imposed 47 fines totalling 3.1 million dinars, of which 1.6 million were actually paid in the budget, 1.5 million were never paid in the budget, beware of who they were, who did not pay them. Unpaid, say: the interior ministry, the Securities Commission, Serbia's Archive, Zeljeznice, Telecom, Serbia's Lek Chamber of Serbia, Belgrade's Business Court, the town of Leskovac, the City Council. Look, a very broad spectrum, but they think they're above the law and there's no need to pay. This lack of respect for the law and this irresponsibility and this kind of arrogant relationship between state authorities and local self-government really leads to you wondering if this country has the right to call itself democratic. The second part of the report concerns compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. A very interesting question because as far as this part of the report is concerned, the Commissioner says we haven't moved away since 2005 and that our society, our country is absolutely not in a position to change anything when it comes to personal data. Why is that? What I like very much about both the Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector, they have indeed made very good recommendations and very good analyses. Why is that? It says – the legal framework for the protection of personality data is absolutely incomplete and some very important areas are simply not covered at all. One of those very important areas and completely unsettled is, say, security checks. Several times, this MP group has talked about it, especially when citizens, young people, who have not had the opportunity to enroll in a police academy or some studies that involve this kind of check, so one check that is completely unsettled, legally unprotected, causes many dilemmas, many misunderstandings, and most importantly, is not in line with the Constitution at all. The Constitution says very precisely, in Article 42. – collecting, keeping, processing and using personality data is regulated by law, therefore, not by sublegal acts, as is the case with us, but by law. So I must stress that the Commissioner has made a real initiative to regulate this area by special law, he has made a recommendation to the state, and the state has disobeyed that. This is very important because it is really necessary to regulate the jurisdiction of various entities, in this case both BIA and MUP and VBA and similar. Next, you have a huge space that's not covered, there's no law, and there's no actual control, let's say, in data relating to biometrics. Then on data circulating in the private sector, physical and technological security. Then what happens to the video surveillance data, it's completely uncovered space. There's nothing going on in this House. No one's making any threats to this guy. The government and other state authorities then failed to perform the basic tasks laid down by the Data Protection Act. Now keep an eye on this data. Two and a half years later, the government is late to adopt a personal data protection strategy. Four years with the adoption of a regulation on the protection of particularly sensitive data. Four years has not been passed by the Underlaws Government. The other government has changed, and she doesn't bring in a sublegal act that I think really has no excuse. The issue of sanctions in the law that is being applied today is indeed a matter that we need to talk about because we cannot expect the law to apply itself, it must also have sanctions and it is very important in this law to extend limitation deadlines and increase penalties. In the end, only one report that shows that we really need to deal with him seriously, and then I will quickly move on to Mr. Sasa Jankovic's report, the Citizens' Protector. I'm sorry I won't be handling the third report, unfortunately, in 20 minutes, three serious systematic reports are impossible to cross. Mr. Jankovic's report is also very good, very systematic, but what will happen to both the Trustee and the Citizens' Protector is that simply those institutions, in which citizens increasingly trust, will collapse on their own. Why? Because they have an enormous increase in the volume of work. They have small services, they have a small number of employees, and that is ultimately the Parliament's question to deal with this data. They're really well organized, covering for now everything that can be covered, having initiatives, having complaints, going out in the field and everything but it's impossible to do like that. Since small services are then able to move very quickly so that the state cannot determine the space for them, the permanent space in which they will work, about these two things are connected. Sasa Jankovic also dealt very, very seriously with this matter and found so many violations of human rights, did not find it, but found it based on complaints from citizens and turning citizens, so many complaints. First of all, that question is because I don't want to deal with others, I don't have time, but I will deal with the health care issue of our citizens and, above all, the health care of our children. It's a topic that we have to deal with and absolutely inadequate healthcare is something that adorns our health care system. She exists only when the minister here speaks to us, she's the only one who claims in this country that it's a good service. It absolutely doesn't stand. Citizens have no fundamental rights because the state allows employers not to pay contributions to health insurance, nor to pension insurance, and we will see that it happens to entire generations of workers who do so, where they will receive pensions. The state of course has services that can deal with this. Mr. Jankovic stated that we have over 30 types of inspections, she does not deal with it because they simply do not have jurisdiction, they do not enter into this topic seriously. The scariest thing is that these people who are employed, they're fictitious employees, they can't exercise their rights. They can't verify health books, they can't be treated. Then you have an army of people who can't get health care. The scariest thing about it is children get hurt because only their children don't get a chance to get medical books. Although this has been discussed several times in parliament, while Mr Jankovic's previous report insisted that children should have the right to have a health book by 18 years of age. The constitution says that – if it cannot be achieved that way, it can be achieved from other public revenues. It is a mandatory category of each country to cover its children up to 18 years of age with health insurance. We still have those examples. Just as a folk MP, I have an example of a mother who is two twins, who are a few months old, can't take her to a doctor, because she says - the Assembly didn't pass any law on the subject. The scariest thing is still our social actions when we're trying to organize ourselves to raise money to send our children to treatment abroad or some serious operation abroad, it can't be a matter of our humanity and our social concerns in that way, it has to be a matter of system, it has to be an orderly thing, and it has to be absolutely clear. Now look at the circus so we can make new health books that will be biometric. We spend a lot of money on it, and we don't find a way to find a fund, make a fund of where we're gonna send our kids to surgery, or we're gonna bring some other kids, or we're gonna bring doctors from some other country to do these operations here. So, models exist, it's possible to talk about it, but we can't deal with the team the way it's trying to tell us – it just can't. I'd like to say a little more about the rights of the children, although I've already touched that subject in this way. It's a question of violence. When a set of basic education laws was passed here, and then we thought it was very ugly to talk about seven or eight laws as much as it was, because then we can't take care of the details. She missed the whole, the whole palette amongst other things, the violence. Sasha Jankovic's report gives us the right to ask to discuss it that way. He says -- that violence in schools, of course there is, we get a picture of it from the media only when it's written, some kid killed himself either this or that. But schools don't co-operate with other institutions when it comes to violence. Schools don't have teams to protect children from violence or if they have anything to say about it. It is a very serious topic, and these reports for every MP should be a book he reads every time a law is found before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19311	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. We inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break. We'll be back at 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19312	We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19313	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of independent regulatory bodies, colleagues from the DS and colleagues from the DSS and the PUPS, as the representatives of the other parties are gone, but I hope they will join this debate, because I think they too see the importance of independent regulatory bodies and that the debate today will also give their contribution, especially as the majority of the report, i.e. a good part of the report, relates to the work of the institutions in which they now have their representatives, or members of the Government. The condition that has been processed in these three documents on 450 pages is not pink at all, and it is far from being shown by some pink television. In fact, the state of Serbia has been given here through words, examples of independent regulatory bodies, freed from party, possibly subjective views. Certainly, gentlemen sitting here from these independent institutions next to this high home should be guaranteed respect for the Constitution, the law, the legal order, and all of that from the usurpation of individuals, groups of people, which often knows to turn into a dictatorship of individuals or groups of people. Whether we are on the way to this, these documents show this, and that is why today I will quote more quotes from the Citizens' Protector's report, and as regards the ban on discrimination and access to information of public importance, and less will give some of my personal views. What is the reality of the previous period, most of which is covered by these reports, and we are some of the first laws that we have passed in this Assembly, they were given with the intention of destroying independent institutions, and started with the law on NBS, which is adapted to one person, one person, which is the vice president of one party. We got between two or three states in the world, a party-colored NBS, which should worry about the country's monetary stability. We are on track to make public service, which should be an independent public service, become the voice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or those who are at that moment in government. It's collapsing independence, if it's not broken, and we see the situation in the media sphere today, and we're not talking about what might be the most dramatic, which is the collapse of judicial independence, the prosecution. We also had an impact on the judges, on the prosecution and on the representatives of the government, and on some MPs of the National Assembly, which we have talked about so far from the DS. The function of independent regulatory bodies is that the legal system would function independently of whether it is this or that political option, whether it is closer to the centre on the left or right and whether it intends to usurp power, more than the Constitution and the law give it. Unfortunately, apart from these three institutions whose representatives are here today, there are few of these independent institutions left. What I find particularly difficult and difficult to accept is that the constitutional role of Parliament as the highest legislative body, but also the bodies that exercise control over the application of the law, has been questioned, as very little is being discussed in this Assembly and the law that this Assembly has passed and is being discussed in the Citizens' Protection Report. What is the current situation in these areas that are subject to these three reports, and I said that I would quote some of the provisions, because I really think they are extremely objective. For example, the Citizens' Protector's Report says that there has been a fall in the achievement of the economic and social and cultural rights of citizens. It's well visible to all of us, there's been a low-level stagnation, unfortunately, respect for the rule of law. There has been a clear demonstration of political will to fight corruption, but with its tabloid banalization. The Democratic Party pointed to this fact. On the one hand, we have an advocate to fight corruption, and on the other hand, as it is well said, tabloid banalization and the fight against corruption, of course, with the addition that it is very selective. On the other hand, we have a lack of consistent reform of the administration, especially with regard to depoliticalisation and professionalisation, as some of the preconditions for its legal and proper work. The weak institutions, the character of this report, i.e. the accent of this report, are weak institutions that lead to overpowering political will and populism over the rule of law, media wars and bureaucracy and formalism, and are the biggest obstacle to the fuller exercise of human rights and the rule of law in Serbia and faith in them. On the other hand, it said in the area of economic and social law that citizens should realise, growth in poverty and unemployment, has been increased, thus increasing demand for the state. Serbia, the most vulnerable, fails to ensure the minimum application of the standards needed for life, sufficient social assistance, adequate health care, minimum education, assistance in pregnancy, etc., to say ultimately, access to the most vulnerable cultures and scientific achievements, which are also guaranteed rights, are within the limits of statistical error. So it's very clear from this report, and it's clear to everyone who wants to look at the current state of the country, of course, and the period that's been observed here, is that citizens are having a hard time meeting their basic needs, and that our situation in culture, science, education, what we've been talking about these days is such that citizens' access to this area is within the limits of statistical error. Examples are given concerning the tabloidisation of society. The most damaging trends in civil rights are the reduction of the fundamental freedom of the press. Media through the influence of their owners, of course they are non-transparent and represent political party interests and this trend is manifested through the tabloidisation and leak of sensitive information from state authorities to individual media from which they raise circulations. So the information that should be confidential is available to the media. They have access to that information, they sell their circulations that way. Of course, they draw their conclusions from all of this, and of course it is a violation of the interest of a society in which there is legality, law, and prejudgment of innocence. We were very often witnesses, especially at the end of last year, but I would say throughout this year, scenarios like this where political powers are tasked with the media. The media implement the task through Satanization, and after that comes the salva of the satanization of people, groups of political ones, of course, with damage to everyone. It is selective to fight corruption and rule in particular. In that case, the rule of law has been questioned. It is said that corruption is economically exhausting and morally demeaning Serbian citizens, and at the breadth and intensity of the foundations of society. So it's not a fight against corruption just fighting through the tabloid media. The fight against corruption can also be seen in the fact that in the meantime, over four thousand people who have been sentenced to certain prison sentences have been released from custody, that there is no resociation of these people, that there is no follow-up of criminal acts, that people suspected of corruption are amnesty, as was the case of a doctor who received bribes from disabled people. He was amnested by the President of the Republic of Serbia. He has also amnested some other powerful men who today run some sports societies, etc. The tax debtors were also amnested. Amnesty will also be given to those who did not pay a TV subscription. All those who do not respect the legal system of the Republic of Serbia will be amnested. Where is the role of independent regulatory bodies and where is the role of parliament, and where is the role of government? Independent regulatory bodies filed reports and made recommendations. What will happen to these recommendations and reports? He'll probably stand at best in the drawers of some ministers, civil servants. It's not the independent regulatory bodies that need to implement the recommendations. It would be quite logical if this report of independent regulatory bodies received a report from the state authorities, therefore, from the ministries, what was done under these recommendations. I'm afraid that this feedback won't be, that next year we will again, in a similar or somewhat changed scope, discuss all these cases, and that these reports will, unfortunately, be getting fatter and fatter and that your role will come to a conclusion of the problem, some of your personal desire to change something, but with less opportunity to do so realistically. In that sense, when the Assembly doesn't have a supervisory function, when the Government doesn't apply the laws, I almost asked our minister who runs a resolution, I wouldn't want to mention it, since it's a similar situation in other spheres, what happens in the application of one law in its area? She said -- you know what a colleague, we don't have enough inspectors. I said - Madam Minister, you took office and you could have done something on that plan, you have enough civil servants, try to solve that issue in the government. So the laws don't apply because they don't have enough inspectors, or because inspectors don't do their job. Anyway, it's not up to independent regulatory bodies to apply the law. Their role is to protect the constitutional order, i.e. guaranteed citizens' rights, so that they can exercise those rights through intermediation, but it is primarily the role of state authorities to enable them to apply those laws. Unfortunately, that's not happening. This government has no mechanisms, it seems, to apply the law. Volunteerism is present in the work of this government and in respect of the respect of the law. Voluntarianism and selective approach to solving certain issues are also very present. I've quoted a few of the provisions in this report from the Guardian of Citizens. Just for a little while. Indeed, there is little time to properly draw attention to all the issues in these reports from all three of these reports, but I read with attention the report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Mrs Petrusic. I understand that we still have homophobia, religious intolerance, xenophobia, and even anti-Semitism in our society. In particular, it may scare the fact that, according to some of the research that I have been able to read, and your research, which was available to you, is that half of Serbian citizens are not prone to discrimination, but are not willing to condemn that discrimination either. So we look beside ourselves at discrimination without desire, without the will to condemn this discrimination and thus help independent institutions. Of course, this is about disrespect, i.e. lack of respect for persons with disabilities, other endangered categories, the inaccessibility of certain state institutions for persons particularly at risk. I also looked at the report on access to information and data protection from a person, and it is clear that in the field of data protection from a person, we are almost at the very beginning, as a civilized society, that everyone is possible from civil servants, that without any restriction take personal documents, that in a certain case and abuses them and, of course, we have other cases of data abuse of various state services, which was a lot of talk in the previous period. That's why the DS will support these reports. We think they're made of quality, that they give hope that there's a chance in this country to defend ourselves against totalitarianism and volunteerism and try to get back to law enforcement and the Constitution. So we invite everyone else, especially fellow Members, to take part and pay attention to these reports, because they can find information that will be very important to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19314	The word is by citizens' protector Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19315	Thank you very much for your patience. I can tell you that I was in this pause while I was with you a very successful meeting with representatives of the Health Insurance Fund and the Health Minister about something that was also of interest to Serbia, which is the need to issue new health cards and that this is one of the examples of good practice, which it always has, that the Fund will consider all the arguments that are in this meeting to "for" and "against" and all the options, not only that we have new health cards, but that it is possible to reduce bureaucracy and not increase and that we will continue, I believe, in the best interest of Serbian citizens, that no decision will be taken further before we are convinced that this is really necessary and necessary. A few things you've said that I'd like to give you an additional explanation. Tabloidisation. I filed this report before March 15th. Today, three months later, and today this situation, described three months ago, has increased even more. I want to be completely honest. Tabloidisation, by my deep conviction and by the findings I have, didn't begin three months ago, six months or a year ago. Tabloidisation started earlier, and I was one of the people whose previous government representatives threatened and executed these threats with tabloid articles. I'm not saying that just to say that everyone has a bit of a share in it, but to say that it is a weapon that, whoever has it in his hand today, needs to know that tomorrow is going to hit him over the head and that it's not about good taste or taste, or that it's about being nice or not being nice, but that giving data from investigative proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights has been confirmed, established as a violation of the right to assume innocence as a violation of the independence of the judiciary, as a violation of the authority's function, and that it has to stop, which does not mean that the media should not be provocative, to raise social issues, to be and to make them all angry with them, but the state authorities should not participate in what the law says is not allowed. I have to tell you something about the term "independent regulatory bodies", even after one of the MPs also mentioned that all our reports were put together. Although in Serbia, control bodies are relatively new, I think it is time to know that we are not all regulatory bodies. The citizen's protector is not a regulatory body, a special control body, a "ad personam", as is not the authority that can give acts of force to an executive, unlike two trustees sitting with me today. So the different organs are important. The difference is their nature. If sooner as a society and as a community we start taking from each of us what's best he can give and not putting everything together in the same basket, then the effects will be greater. I'm finishing this intervention with the chance you mentioned as well. Of course there is a chance for Serbia. I'm sure she'll be used, but she's not just about what we do. It is in what you are doing, and it is even more so that there are thousands of qualified, professional, honest people in Serbia who are ready and know and do not need any daily projects, "wark shops". They know they're doing their job, but most often when they start doing it in a way that they're all the same. The moment when we allow our civil servants, civil servants in the public administration to really do their job by letter of law and by their own conscience and that ministers and others at the head of the executive authorities support such work, that moment Serbia will actually use all its capacities. I'm sure we don't need five or ten or 15 years. Now we have capacity not used enough in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19316	National MP Vuceta Toskovic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19317	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you didn't warn the previous DS speaker because he made an injury, the dignity of the National Assembly. The Serbian Progressive Party and coalition partners have not changed anything so far. They haven't changed any editors, not one agency. They haven't changed anyone in Serbia's system, so the speaker talked about some bad things that happened and happened in the previous period. So there's a flood after you? Mr. Simeon was in his previous term. We all commended him that he and his team were doing the right thing. Turns out now, the Democrats are not worth much to Frankfurt, nor Tijanic, nor the other newspapers they are handling. So, I think the injured Rules of Procedure are 107. You should have warned the gentleman that it wasn't the flood after them, but it was the Danube.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19318	Mr. People's Parliament, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed. That's not how I understood Mr. Veselinović, that's how he said how you presented it. It is your right to plead in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19319	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19320	People's MP Janko Veselinović came to the floor. On what basis do you want the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19321	Replica, he mentioned DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19322	Mr. Veselinovic, he advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure and in that sense mentioned you. Therefore, you do not have the right to reply at the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I answered him, and I think I responded positively. I don't see any reason for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19323	Dear Chairman, given your correctness, I will not insist, although I believe my colleague spoke beyond the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19324	Thank you very much. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that this may be one of the first sessions to discuss such a report of independent regulatory bodies, which are certainly important for the normal functioning of the state, the rule of law and the exercise of civil rights guaranteed by the Constitution. But through this whole discussion in one good part, it is the impression that everything that is bad and all that is wrong in Serbia is responsible for the current government of the Republic of Serbia. First, we need to take a look at what habits we have in the state administration in the last five, ten, 15, but maybe a little longer. Serbia has entered a multi-party system from a party system. In the 1990s, she was burdened with various political and war crises, so I can say that the development of human rights democracy and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, the good work and the paranoia of the then government, because of the environment in which it was stopped. The Friday changes expected some shift to better, perhaps more drastic than the current result, but apparently these changes did not give the results that citizens expected and what was promised when they came to power. First, one of the fundamental rights of democracy is the state of the media and the information of all citizens on important political, economic and other topics. I can say here that the previous government fell the most on the exam, and that is because many political leaders were high-ranking in the executive government, in their political parties, even media owners, that certain tycoons against whom the media were also run, and that the matter was even worse, were jointly owned by the same media. Don't push that truth under the carpet, maybe it's funny to some people, and I don't, and it's not to citizens either. As the media situation is, we've had a chance to see it in the last election. When the RRA changed the rules, even in the electoral process, which proves the state of the media, that one regulatory body that needs to worry about the independence of these same media, affects their work by jeopardising this independence, and that is the liquid brought by the DS. The Rule of Law — What Is It Viewed? In addition to the state authorities, it is seen in independence to the holders of judicial, public prosecutorial functions. There we had a catastrophic reform where often public prosecutorial and judicial officials were elected along the political line. This is explained by the fact that 800 judges received a no-explanation solution, and then, under the pressure of the Constitutional Court, 800 judges received the same reasoning. Such decisions are made by the VSS and you expect the rule of law. There is no rule of law when the executive power interferes with the independence of the judiciary in the most harsh way. To make things even more interesting and tragic, a similar situation was in the public prosecutor's office. In the same way, public prosecutors were treated as judges, and public prosecutors in their independent and independent work need to be extended by the state's hand. We've had situations where judges and prosecutors call the Justice Minister to ask him if they may or may not be allowed against someone to prosecute. We've had a situation that if police officers start in front of investigations against certain tycoons, they'll either be retired or sent to worse jobs. The name for all of this is corruption. Only in this corruption was the executive power through its representatives and the MUP, and in the judiciary, and in the prosecution and now we have one such situation as we have in Serbia. Unfortunately, in the past, we have not only made progress, but we have gone back because those authorities that need to secure the rule of law were unable to do so. Protection of personality data, someone said that every civil servant can learn all the information about any citizen, because if he has to exercise his right, we'll ask for a personal ID. To make things worse, not just civil servants, but workers of Bus Plus can do the same. Not only do they know all the information about certain citizens, but they can also know the relationships on which they moved until there was a reaction to end it and create a protection system and make it impossible. It was in the city of Belgrade. It seems to me that those who consider themselves the bearers of democracy have threatened this same democracy in every way. Fighting corruption is the greatest evil that can happen to a country. Unfortunately, Serbia is very highly quoted as a corrupt country. We've found broken institutions that need to fight such a subjugation. This government has given some of its actions the right of state authorities to do their jobs, and this is where the first part of the struggle is seen that a civil servant can work by the letter of the law and that the law for all citizens is the same. What's the problem? The problem is bad habits. The bad habits that have been acquired in these state bodies that can't properly meet what they're expected to do both from the citizens and from the government and from this assembly, but you can't blame this government. That all state authorities and independent regulatory bodies can do their job properly and that anyone who has been found and has not soiled his hands with money or anything else, he is detained in that function. Neither has the Citizens' Protector changed, nor has any of these independent regulatory bodies changed. The judges you've appointed haven't been changed, the prosecutors haven't changed, the maltene hasn't changed anything. Everyone got a chance to prove himself and work by letter of the law. We as a National Assembly who has the right to control all state authorities need to perform this function in full capacity. When it comes to media, they need to be given an even greater degree of independence and impartiality. Because it's a signal to us, that when something's wrong with society, we need to ask ourselves if what's written is true and if it is true, that we act the way we're supposed to. That's why we're going to support these reports. They are unfortunately a real picture of the society that we found on July 27th 2012, with a tendency that while this government is going on, we will fight to make these next reports that are coming far more favourable for the citizens of Serbia and for the reputation of Serbia, and for the reputation of this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19326	The word is from the Guardian of Citizens, Mr. Sasa Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19327	Knowing that the task of all of us here is to be constructive, and relying on what you said that this government is going to work, I hope that this government is going to work to make the problem less and the reports are narrower. I will remind you that there was a major problem with the High Judicial Council in the reporting period and before that. In fact, before the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman identified problems and lack of justification and intransparency of the procedure and breach of the regulations of the intended presumption of dignity, but then the High Council of the Judiciary declared that and waited until Europe and the Constitutional Court realized what had already been established. However, just looking ahead, and since the National Assembly, as you have said, has been authorised to oversee the work of all the authorities, including the High Council of the Judiciary, I would now like to tell you that in the subsequent period, in this reporting period, there has been a situation that the High Council of the Court of Justice has failed to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court in certain situations, that I have initiated the procedure of control on the basis of these complaints and that I have received a reply from the High Council of the Judiciary, which says the following – the Honored Protector of Citizens, under the Constitution, you do not control six types of bodies: the National Assembly, President of the Republic, Government, courts, prosecutors and the Constitutional Court. The high council of the judiciary, as you can see, is not listed among those six. However, the High Council of the Judiciary says – we are independent, so neither can you us and it will be a new huge problem. I hope that we will prevent the need for the Constitutional Court, Europe and everyone else to react again and that the Supreme Council of the judiciary will accept the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, under which independent authorities are not exempt from control from one another. The Commissioner for Public Information has just given me a solution that I am obliged to act on, even though my independence is guaranteed by the Constitution and it says that no one has the right to influence my actions. But the solution of another organ whose control I'm not the exception I have to respect. The high council of the judiciary is not exempt from control. Independence of the judiciary does not mean irresponsibility. I ask you, as a National Assembly, to find a way to warn these problems. Another similar example that combines the past, the present and the future. During the term of office of the previous governments, laws were passed that introduced the so-called so-called legal system. A comfortable method of calculating interest. In the individual proceedings, I pointed out that this was contrary to the basic principles of justice on which both our Constitution and the legal order were based, until the Constitutional Court in the first case found for the first law that the comfortable method was unconstitutional, there was no enforcement of my recommendations, and after that decision it was. However, the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance continued to apply legislation that provides for a comfortable method even after the Constitutional Court's decision. As the Guardian of Citizens, whose job is to prevent the need for citizens to go to court, I told them – the Constitutional Court said in a similar, identical case that the comfortable method is unconstitutional, don't take this anymore, go quickly to the Assembly, change the law, you'll have to pay the money back to the citizens. They didn't do it. Six months later, I get an answer that he won't implement my recommendation because the Constitutional Court in one law said that the comfortable method is unconstitutional, but he didn't say the same thing about the law they're applying. Does the Constitutional Court need every single law to advertise unconstitutionally in that part or does the Constitutional Court's decision be read as we all know it should be read? Please use experience from the previous period, to use what we, as independent control bodies, determine and prevent the need for the Citizens' Protector to come out tomorrow and say – all Serbian citizens, owe you all the tax administration money taken from you on the basis of an unconstitutional reckoning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19328	National MP Janko Veselinovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19329	You're right, Your Honor. Basically, most of the things I wanted to say were said by the Guardian of Citizens. Mr. Arsic could once again hear that the situation in Serbia is not as pink as it appears on some televisions. Clearly, the Citizens' Protector said that the tabloids existed in the earlier period, even during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. However, that the tabloidisation has reached the level at which it is a rule, and all other exceptions, can be read from this report, even between the lines, and on the other hand, we have witnessed every day. You now have a situation well described on page 13, Mr. Arsic. A twist in the fight against corruption has seen part of the media as an opportunity to daily violate the presumption of innocence and a series of personal discreditions with clear political implications. Reading provided them with authentic data from pre-examination and ongoing investigations that would otherwise have to be inaccessible to the public. As a result, in a critical way, such media has begun to be peoratively marked as official messengers and party bulletins. We talked about these official messengers and party bulletins for the past seven months. On the other hand, you mentioned Mr. Tadic. He has never amnested any person convicted of corruption and that kind of crime, which makes President Nikolic. I don't remember any of our MPs going to Central Prison to put pressure on individuals convicted of criminal acts to defend themselves from freedom. I don't remember that there have been such broad amnesty in other cases and bad habits to attack the media, it seems to me that today in this assembly they've been established.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19330	MP Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19331	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one part of the story some media are writing, and the other part of the story when Belgrade Mayor DS was the owner of the press, along with the person against whom investigations are being conducted, is a big difference. As for the amnesty of the president of the Republic of Serbia for persons who, as you say, have done corrupting actions, I am interested only in who the previous government had arrested while Boris Tadic was president of the Republic of Serbia for corruption? Who are you going to pardon? Who are you going to free from responsibilities? The easiest thing to do is to go out and say something and accuse the president of the Republic of Serbia, who cannot answer you. The crime rate in Serbia today is large, of all forms, perhaps one of the largest in Europe, and no one wonders why it is so high. Because there was no rule of law, one of the reasons. Another reason is the difficult economic situation in the country. What will a child learn from a parent who doesn't go to work because he's gone? What kind of example will he give him? How will the street affect him? That's what you've brought to the changes on October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19332	National MP Janko Veselinović, a replica and we end the circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19333	Let's just get some things straight. You're saying Mr. Gilas was co-owner of the "Pres" list with a face suspected of committing some crimes. I don't see any responsibility here for Mr. Gilas. It's no argument for you. On the other hand, I shouldn't go far when it comes to showing those faces that are marked for corruption. They're sitting in your government. Let's say, Mr. Knezevic and Mr. Dinkic, who you were wearing in a prison shirt, so now I think you've amnested him. I don't need to go that far to give you examples. All the serious fight against corruption has been started by the previous government against the very serious criminals that you have now tried to display as your fight against corruption through your tabloids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19334	National MP Veroljub Arsic, and we end up with a circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19335	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can tell you that this isn't happening in the Assembly, this would be very funny to me. Mr. Knezevic is relieved of his responsibilities, by a court ruling. If he was judged by the judges you have appointed, I have no reason to doubt the correctness of that verdict. It's on one side. On the other hand, not only is it not moral to be co-owner with a suspect, and I hope soon and soon blamed for corruption and abuse, but it is not necessarily a politician, mayor, party president and newspaper owner, that he has a complete monopoly on advertising, that he has ruined public service. All the media went down because he was the one who was the middleman in advertising. If it's not a crime, it's not moral. Don't tell us any more about it. Your fight against corruption - what were the replaced police officers who were working against Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic? One was retired and the other was sent to a lower job. Why didn't the prosecutors under your authority do the same work that they're doing now? You didn't give it to them. Don't blame us for what you're guilty of and taking over and taking our credit. The state has not been legal in the past five years. He did whatever he wanted, whatever he wanted, so now we have so much unemployment, so now we have so many closed firms, and that's why we have so many court proceedings. You can't blame us for that, and besides that, they told you all of Zaječar's citizens, it seems to me you're 3.5% there, I promised you 5% you wouldn't skip the next election or the stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19336	Dejan Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19337	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. Chairman, you must respond to this exposure by the head of the parliamentary group when it comes to the protection of media and journalists, and it does not go into the hallway to protect the journalist from his MP who attacked in the hall for no reason whatsoever. When he speaks of the protection of the justice system, he did not protect the judge from his MP who blackmailed and threatened the judge to release or influence the process that a man has been accused of serious crimes. You're having affairs - aflatoxin, medications, invoices. Take responsibility for something, don't run away from her anymore. That's what the citizens see.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19338	Please, I've allowed you to breach the Rules of Procedure, but don't abuse the Rules of Procedure and go from abuse of Rules of Procedure to replication. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. It was also the right of MP Arsic and previous speakers to talk about the behaviours that occur in the media and in the tabloids, as you all said otherwise, and I do not see that it was an injury to the Rules of Procedure. But it is your right if you think it is, that in the day of the vote we plead. No, I don't. Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. Mr. Arsic, having been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, denied it through explanation and you have no right to replication. Please, Mr. Arsic, I also didn't allow Veselinovic to make a replica through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I can't make an exception to you right now. Please comply with the rules defined by the Rules of Procedure. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Article 104.) Here you go, Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19339	In Article 104. The Rules of Procedure say, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name, or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. Article 2 - if offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, etc. In no part of Article 104, it is not mentioned that this exposure is not related to the application of the Rules of Procedure in the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, especially because the most serious untrues have been made there, because the drug crisis is responsible for DS, the mayor of Gilas and the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade, which did not want to implement the Public Procurement Act to continue stealing money from Serbian citizens. As far as aflatoxin is concerned, it's that you stole the stock reserves under the pretext of destroying the corn, which is infected, to cover up all the thieving you've made.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19340	Please, Mr. Arsic, everything would be fine only if you had read the last position, which reads – on the exercise of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article is decided by the President of the National Assembly, in this case the Chairman. So, right on the line, whether there's someone or not, decides solely the chairman. Please, let's act like one. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. If you think we should make a statement in the voting day, we'll make a statement? No, I don't. I thank you. On what basis are you answering, Mr. Jankovic? (Saša Jankovic: As Proposer. ) The word has Mr. Sasa Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19341	My little request, such as my colleagues, or colleagues, if we can pay a little more attention in this home today to whether, for example, as a state health care service, we're going to remove patients from the jurisdiction of the Justice Department or put them where they belong, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, because doctors aren't prisoners. Are we going to ensure consistent use of Cyrillic letters, also equal use of language and letters by national minorities, whether we will ensure the effective and timely launch of the procedure for determining the responsibilities and personal responsibilities of employees in schools and other institutions when there are cases of neglect and peer violence, whether we will provide affirmative actions for enterprises that employ persons with disabilities, and not only affirmative actions, but to provide them with an equal position on the market with those who do not have it, whether we will establish a working body, in particular, whether we will move from the declarations into practice and set up a working body for deinstitutionalisation? We ask that at least 30% of people who stay in psychiatric institutions, who, according to the testimony of doctors who treat them, say they should not be in psychiatric institutions, return to the community, and have services in that community not to be isolated in their own community. Please, even though all the topics that are relevant, if possible as the National Assembly, are to support at least part of these recommendations and to work on this in your constant contact and control of the executive authority, together with us. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19342	Thank you. I'm asking if any of the authorized representatives, who didn't use the law, want a word? No, I don't. We are moving to order according to the notices of the MPs of the people. The first on the list is MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SPO-DHSS seemed to have written these reports. Because of the time left, I will focus on the Report of the Protector of Citizens and remind the public and respected colleagues that the report is one sublimation of our political views and political action in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In 2012, the biggest drop in the achievement of the economic, social and cultural rights of citizens was. That's what we pointed out, and that's why we didn't vote for budget rebalance last year, for this budget, and we're not voting for this budget rebalance either. We will support the government on its European path and in the fight against corruption and crime, but not the tabloidisation and the fight and possible selective fight against corruption and crime. With the progress of certain political rights and freedoms, it is clear from the report that there is a lack of reform of the administration, which remains a trom, inefficient, in which there are extra employees and, as a rule, where there are the highest number of complaints. The case works, it's in the town of Leskovac. Weakness of the institutions, we kept in mind. As right-wing men, we stand for a strong state, for the strengthening of institutions and for the strengthening of human and civil freedoms and rights. A country where citizens, on either hand, feel justice and justice and respect and the functioning of the rule of law is the best state. Everything else is the improvisation of the state. What is not looking forward to us is that, for example, the heroin against corruption Mrs. Verica Barac did not have the support within her own country to examine these 24 controversial privatisations, which is why the warrant was supposed to arrive from Brussels. Is Brussels more interested in fighting corruption and crime, or is that supposed to be us? What interests us in the future, from this and from all future governments, is that all these impulses that come positively from the European Commission, from independent regulatory bodies, come from the government. Such a government, with such political views and intentions, will have our full support. Whether we are part of the ruling majority or part of the opposition, as is the case now, we will always support what is good, and what is bad will certainly not. We have pointed out here countless times to disrespect the media strategy and the non-transparentity of ownership. Almost from Brussels, from the European Commission, another warning came to us that we should respect the media strategy and form six regional public services and that the state comes out of ownership of the media and that the transparency of the ownership structure is established. I'm saying again, it's something we've repeated over and over again, and instead of such impulses and government initiatives, they usually come to us from Brussels. There is a large number of disrespect for patients' rights, from the waiting list for operations, for radiation, etc., and the consequences of this have been lost many human lives. I think reform of the pension and health insurance system is something that needs to be fully insisted on in the future. Secondly, it seems to me that no one has mentioned that the Strasbourg court is most covered by Serbia's lawsuits. It is another important indicator of the failure of the state and its institutions to function and its inefficientness. That's why we, as a parliamentary group, are going to keep up with it. The threat to children's rights is fragrant. Peer violence takes on a worrying situation, and the state does not respond adequately. We don't even have enough school cops, schoolyards aren't public surfaces, there's no legislation that school staff can prevent gathering and the functioning of criminal structures, etc. What makes us happy about the citizens' protection initiative for the assessment of constitutionality or for not amending certain laws coincides with the position of our parliamentary group. In fact, we've been looking for tightening, we've been tightened, we've got a crime measure against half-freedom, and the Citizens' Protector is pushing for these measures not to be tempered, which shows we're thinking the same way and we have the same approach to this problem that's not the problem of small proportions. What is also one of the violations of constitutional guarantees on the privacy of letters and communications, the Citizens' Protector pointed out in the way we have. We don't understand a new security check that isn't based on a law that doesn't have its own explanation, where it's potential that certain individuals don't get into certain functions without a valid explanation, which we think is a step backwards. What is acceptable for our parliamentary group is, in addition to preventive action, despite an analysis of the current situation, that the Citizens' Protector also plays an active role, to suggest what needs to be changed concretely. I'm saying, in that sense, we're thinking the same way. One colleague said very nicely, she took away my thought, that every government needs all reports of independent regulatory bodies, which are absolutely objective, to experience as task number one and as guidelines to act in the future, as we would from what is called the improvisation of the state become one serious European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19344	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19345	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Jankovic, Mrs. Petrusic, fellow MPs, in my presentation, I will limit myself to Mr. Sasa Jankovic's report. I want to say that this is a very detailed and concrete report, but I want to say that I think that the problems that exist in the country are clearly defined in the next sentence that you stated in this report. She says, "None of the priorities of the reform of the state administration, which are embedded in an appropriate state strategy, has made a key move in 2012, especially in depoliticalisation and rationalisation. The administration at all levels, state, province and local, remained a tool of social policy and party prey." I don't think it could be more precise to show the situation in that area where you expect to make a key contribution to the protection of human rights and freedoms. The public can see the work of the National Assembly, the processes in which laws are passed. The public can, to the greatest extent, see the government's work, what the government is doing. What is the state administration, what is your work on, and the government, and the Assembly? We can see from time to time, but unfortunately we can determine the sad state that you've observed. One of the problems that you have raised, which we have talked about here several times, where the main problem is that the State Administration Reform Strategy, adopted in 2005, was stopped in 2007. How is it stopped? It has been stopped in its essential and key task, which is depolitisation. It has shown itself, and has been continued by this government, in that segment relating to the application of the Law on Civil Servants. You've rightly pointed out one thing here. Is the competition applied and implemented when choosing a person in place? To what extent was it carried out? He was practically stopped after 2007. In the previous term, the law was postponed by various amendments and additions, only those final provisions relating to the deadlines in which it should be met. During this government, I have no information, that would be interesting to hear from the very representative of the Commissioner for Information of Meaning, was there a single contest called? Has anyone been elected to an assistant post or elsewhere under the State Service Act? When we come into a situation to devalue a key segment of the Depolitical Strategy, we cannot talk about an effective, strong and rational state administration. Do you have any information as to how many civil servants Serbia has now? Has the Ministry released that information? Is there information and has anyone been monitoring how the laws on the maximum number of employees in the republican administration and the maximum number of employees in local self-government have been implemented? Did anyone bring that information out? You remember how loudly announced the depoliticalization and rationalization of the state administration when these laws were passed here. They proved only to be a convenient cause for political demagogy, not a true desire to depolitise and rationalise the state administration. Now you're right to wonder why your recommendations don't apply or why the laws don't apply? This is where you found one inflation of regulations, and that's true. The other day, we adopted, as it was called here, a resolution in the legislative policy. Our parliamentary group voted against, not because it believes that the National Assembly and the Government should not have a clear and concrete way and plan to run a legislative policy, but because it has proved to be inadmissible and that no previous analysis has been carried out in which legislative policy was conducted. You've rightly pointed to the inspection problem, but I'll remind you of one key problem. We don't have the inspection law. What are we talking about? The most important instrument that should have one power to enforce the laws. In the extreme line of law enforcement, one's civil law is exercised. We don't have a roof inspection law. We witnessed an announcement in the previous government that this would seem partial, so a law on administrative inspection was passed, so the announcements were from other ministries, but we don't have a roof law. We didn't discuss what an inspection was in the National Assembly. Then how do you expect, which you said, to define the jurisdiction and authority of an inspection that should be the foundation of state administration and bureaucracy? For democratic processes, the National Assembly and the multi-party system are important, it's a controlled executive government, it's important to civilian control of security authorities, but if we don't have a state apparatus, bureaucracy, we don't have a state. That's the key problem you're pointing at here. It's something I want to insist on here, because it's extremely important. Mr. Jankovic, you must point out the problem of applying the law relating to civil servants. You won't be successful in realising your job unless we get a professional and depolitized state administration, unless all ministerial assistants are elected to the competition and we get a professional frame in that part. Of course, deputies are political figures and they should stay. It's also important that the authorities in the government are responsible for it. We have the impression that these organs have actually stopped working. In addition, the High Official Council is also responsible for the promotion and development of persons working in the state administration. We do not have any information on the extent to which our state administration and our bureaucracy have been improved, whether organised courses, with which thematics, whether some comparative analyses have been used or, in the end of the line, are good parallel practices in countries that have developed state administration, such as France. We don't have that information. It is the impression that the state administration has released itself simply above the focus of interest, and that is why you have probably rightly come to this definition that it has become a tool of social policy, because by breaking the Law on the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, i.e. the administration, we have re-employment and party prey, because it simply does not implement laws relating to civil servants, and we have not yet begun to implement the law relating to public enterprises, the election of directors. I think that in the next period, in addition to all the other bodies you control, you have to focus on these problems, because Serbia will be in a great deal of trouble to apply the laws, to implement the reforms it needs and, in the end, will suffer citizens. You have said well here – we are here so that citizens are not forced to go to court. I didn't touch the judiciary. In the end, it all comes down to court. The key issue of protecting human rights is how effectively does the judiciary work? That's what we're going to talk about these days. The Justice Reform Strategy is going on. There's a catastrophic situation here. Without a state administration, without a strong judiciary, all your work, with all good intentions, will not be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19346	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19347	Madam Vice-President, Mr Jankovic, Mrs Petrusic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, LDP will support the report of the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in the day of voting. However, it is extremely important for the LDP to show our support to these institutions in the Republic of Serbia for all that they have done in the previous years, and we hope that in the coming period they will continue to work in that intensity and in what extent they have so far worked. Why am I speaking in that capacity? Because the characteristics of these reports are that the relationship between the authorities from the previous period and the authorities is now almost the same compared to these bodies in the Republic of Serbia. Here I'm not just talking about reacting to the recommendations made by the Protector of Citizens or the Trustee of Equality, and here I mean the systematic collapse of these institutions, in a material sense. How else can I explain to the information that the 2013 budget rebalance, which we will discuss on Monday, is reducing the budget of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality from 89 to 77 million dinars? Not to mention the lack of adequate space for these institutions. Not to mention what the Citizens' Protector was talking about, about the lack of a co-worker who needs to be adequately addressed, apparently, to an increased number of Serbian citizens' needs to address these institutions. In talks with Serbian citizens, what is important to me to pass on to you and the public, it is an increased interest of citizens to turn to you, because only in you now see some kind of security in which they can achieve some of their rights, because the state administration and individual authorities do not act according to their needs. These LDP reports are comprehensive and, most importantly, absolutely show a blood count of the society we're in. Let us not wonder why today we have increased the intensity of the operation of the extreme groups of right-wing groups, because these reports show us a climate that absolutely enables such cases to occur in our society. What is important for LDP and for me personally as members of a national minority, it is, to paraphrasise a message that we can see on billboards these days, that you are actually the guardians and protectors of European, civil and democratic Serbia. No gendarmes, no police unit, no individual, but you as an institution, or people representing institutions in which citizens trust. In his report, the Ombudsman assessed respect for human rights in some six areas. I'd just like to say some of my observations that I've seen reading this report. For example, as regards judicial reform, much has been said in the statements of the predecessors what was good, and what was not good, why the implementation of certain laws was stopped, but what is important, and not in this report, it is that in December about 600 judges were returned to work, but 600 judges who are members of a ruling political party. Those 600 judges became members of the SNS before the May month elections, were returned to work, but we did not get any information as to whether they were still members of the SNS. Is that an independent judiciary? Also, when we talk about fighting corruption, it is extremely important to say that the fight against corruption does not depend on one man, that the fight against corruption should depend on institutions, and we in Serbia today do not have an institution to fight corruption. We, today, one year after the new ruling majority was established, have no, for example. A law on the protection of alarmers, a simple legal framework that needs to protect those people who point to corruption. Also, when we talk about the rule of law, I would agree with what Mr Palalic was talking about and what it says in the report of the Protector of Citizens, which is not implementing the Law on civil servants, but in a few days it highlights all the provisions relating to the selection of directors of public enterprises under the new Law on Public Enterprises. We from LDP have been asking a question for three months – for which state-owned enterprises, when I say state-owned, I mean those companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, or the authority for their work by the Serbian Government, are competitions for the selection of directors? Just tell me two public enterprises, and it's 30 June 2013. How can we talk about the rule of law, when the Serbian Government has appointed over the last two months boards of public enterprises, and according to the Law on Public Enterprises adopted in December, administrative committees as institutes no longer exist, but only supervisory committees exist? Is that the rule of law? How, then, can we expect citizens to respect some laws or legal obligations when the Serbian government does not respect what this assembly has adopted? Here, as the National Assembly, we should say - enough more! Whether it's one ruling majority, another ruling majority, this is about the rule of law. There is no EU for us in Brussels, we European values must be built here in Serbia, not in talks with representatives of the international community. Also, when we talk about civil servants, I will point out the case of the assistant culture minister who put together a list of public figures, traitors, who supported LDP and DS last year. Also, similar lists later began to make extremists. Why? Because it's tolerated by one civil servant, then every extremist has the right, according to their interpretation, to make these same lists of traitors, and thus to bring us back in the 1990s. Also, I'd like to say a few things, and it's about protecting members of the national minorities. In these reports, you said it in an extremely appropriate way. Here I will absolutely agree with what you have said to Mr. Jankovic as a recommendation, which is that it is necessary to prepare, amend the amendments to the National Minority Councils Act. The year 2014 is the year in which elections for national councils are to be held. If we do not, as a Serbian Parliament, amend certain provisions of this law, I fear we will only have one bad atmosphere among the members of the national minorities that will naturally reflect on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because most citizens in the Republic of Serbia do not know what national councils are, which are their obligations and most importantly, which is the provisions of the National Councils Act are absolutely not in line, for example. with the provisions of the Law on Culture. I will also mention the failure of the Bosniak National Council, the so-called National Council of Bosniaks in Serbia. The duality created by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the then Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and has now taken over the Ministry of Justice, where a National Council of Bosniaks, elected in 2001, was recognised in 2001, did not create a lapus in 2001, and the National Council elected in the 2010 elections is not recognised. Why is that a problem? Because Bosniaks, as members of the national minority, cannot fully enjoy all the rights defined by the Law on National Councils in the Republic of Serbia concerning culture, official use of language, education. They also cannot participate in the processes defined by the Law on National Councils relating to the appointment of individual boards, cultural institutions or the definition of individual legislative proposals. Also, I would like, when we talk about the official use of the language, to agree with the citizens' protection recommendation, where he says it is necessary to ensure, both the consistent use of Cyrillic letters and the equal use of the language and letters of national minorities in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. At the very end of the presentation, I would like to read the report of the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights on the state of human rights since 2012 several recommendations regarding the work of your institutions that I need, as a Serbian Parliament, absolutely to support. This is to enable the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality of the Conditions of Employment of an adequate number of employees, in accordance with the Internal Regulation, the systematization of the workplaces of these institutions, to adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Citizens, which further ensures the independence of this institution, to strengthen the mechanisms for monitoring and implementing the recommendations of independent institutions that the Citizens' Protector has made together with the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights and Jukom, to amend the Law on Access to Information from Public Meaning in order to strengthen the provisions on Violent Responsibility, also to adopt and the law to protect the rights of the alerter and to adopt a law governing the matter of security checks. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say, when we talk about human rights in Serbia, it is not enough to consider in one day the report of the Citizens' Protectors, the Trustee of Equality or the Trustee of Access to Information and here to criticise or commend. I think it is necessary to put pressure, as the largest legislative body in the Republic of Serbia, on all authorities, that those recommendations given by these institutions are consistently respected, so that from year to year the level of these recommendations is as small as possible, and we finally live with those standards that Mr. Jankovic spoke about when he spoke about the Citizens' Protector in Sweden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19348	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19349	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of independent regulatory bodies, reports that are ahead of us, as most colleagues who have said, are, in fact, a picture of Serbia. Of course, the reports are very exhaustive, very detailed, with concrete data on what's going on. I will rely more or less on the report of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, but it certainly matches the Citizens' Protector's report somewhere. I believe, in a way, that, with the adoption of these laws adopted by the Assembly in 2009, the Law on Gender Equality and Prohibition of Discrimination, on the basis of probably EU requirements, monitoring European standards and the like, did not bring about the desired effects after four years. We see from these reports that they are not fully applied, so I think that one major challenge facing this National Assembly is that these laws are much better applied because we haven't shown it so far. I will refer to the position of persons with disabilities within this report, where I believe the situation is not moved from a dead end at all, not with these laws, nor with respect for their elemental rights. We've had an example of the past few days that the Union of Blind has not been granted the means of publishing and working their library, the use of sound books, the publishing of their books, the possibility of learning through Bray's alphabet and so on, which I think is a big scandal, at least, where some 10 million dinars, who could certainly be taken away from the salaries of the administration, for example. in this Ministry of Culture, and to provide the funds. If I understand correctly, Serbia is the only country in which there are no sound books. Also, zero dinars are provided for people with visual impairment magazines. Also, as far as hiring people with disabilities is concerned, we have a big problem. The state institutions would rather not have you employed by people with disabilities and paid there into a fund, which I think is a very bad thing that we can't have an insight into what these funds are being spent on. Also, people with disabilities, children, whether or not they are schooled or do not have appropriate textbooks. I think the big problem and everything depends on local self-government, not on their goodwill, of course, will always has, but on the means. Whether they will allow deinstitutionalisation to be conducted, i.e. children, for example The first, second grade, who can go along with the other kids to school, go with help, e.g. If they're blind -- a typhologist, that there's a mechanism that would force the Ministry of Education or someone to ensure they have this typhologist, are local self-governments already doing it? What do those who don't have enough resources do? At my place in the Cheetah municipality, from little boy Rada, who's really extra-serially talented about many things, but he's trying to go to school with the other kids right now, so he's not in a position to be sociable and so forth, but to work on this topic, to get involved in the community. Also, accessibility of buildings, institutions, above all state bodies for disabled persons is an extremely big problem, not to mention streets, sidewalks, etc. Also, I believe that the obligation to help children with disabilities must be established as a mandatory service, as well as a living room. I think that Serbia, we have seen this, has no developed mechanisms for legal aid and to fight discrimination and protect the equality of these people with disabilities and certainly for the situation, for domestic violence, etc. I think it should also be included in some mandatory elements of a law, that we have a specialization of legal lawyers, judges in the field of discrimination, gender equality, violence against women, etc., violence against women in the family. The question of the system of responsibility and control is raised – is someone answering when this discrimination is established? So, if someone doesn't, they don't have access to people with disabilities to a building or something, who's responsible that's not the case, when the law says that's the way it has to be? We have to work on prevention. I think the biggest thing here is in education, in education. Kids from first grade on, it's got to be about education, it's gotta be about raising the awareness of the population, working on prevention. That's the basic thing. Because these things keep happening to us, day and day. We've seen them go deaf, first of all, the state authorities, who have the most respect for this, go deaf about this kind of thing, so they go deaf about the recommendations and simply, and if there's no recommendation, they don't respect anything the way they want ad hoc and no rules. Also, when we talk about the position of women, I wonder what Serbia's long-term goal is? Is the long-term goal of stimulating or destimulating birth? I don't get it. So we've come up with a specific strategy to stimulate birth, but based on the examples we see, we're totally doing the opposite. Starting with the transfer of women to lower jobs when they return from maternity leave, the obligation requires employers in private companies, banks, to sign women's contracts that they will not be born for the next five or seven years, that they will not remain in a different state, and if they don't sign, then they can't even get a job. For example, a pregnant woman who lost her job in kindergarten, a saleswoman in Belgrade, one of the last cases, which also lost her job, was intervened by Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, and was returned to work. Then, sociologist at the Novo Sad Social Labour Centre, Mr Milos Vukevic, also SNS Novi Sad, intervened, and it seems to me that these are the problems that happen all the time. Who's checking it out? Who's being punished? Who's responsible for what's going on? Not that this person doesn't, it's going to happen again, and on the other hand, I'm curious, I didn't see in these mechanisms that you listed – the influence of the biggest ruling party on employment. So they should individually influence certain politicians to get a person back to work? Now I would ask the question, for example, that if a young woman wants to get pregnant and has a job problem, should she address Mr Stefanovic, or Mr Vučevic, if she wants to function normally and have healthy and normal children? Also, Vojvodina Development Bank, when it was supposed to reform, was supposed to fire 30 pregnant women and maternity mothers. I don't understand. Is anyone responsible for this? So there was no reason for that to happen. Then we have a situation where 32 women were killed in domestic violence in 2012. This year to half 29 women. So, the situation is alarming. It's a really difficult situation, and I'm wondering if she's taking care of it and whether or not she's taking care of it, without talking about breaking into the safe house that happened. So how safe is this safe house, then? We're free of the Law, which we have on gender equality, if we come into a situation where women entrepreneurs get double taxed, that women have lower incomes than men. We are free of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination if the Ministry of Culture asks the Alliance of the Blind to write a request and to make a written delivery so that they do not give them the means for publishing or the Ministry of Labour to respond to a fixed phone if they wish to confirm their participation in certain meetings. All in all, the conclusion is that, based on the analysis of this situation, which we have seen in these reports, we must all work together to really bring about the situation that equal opportunities policy really works for everyone, but not just here as we talk about these reports, but that it must be woven into every law that this National Assembly is making and that we, as MPs, have to look after the application of this law, because we are the Members of the People, who have chosen to control how the law is applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19350	Thank you. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19351	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Petrusic, Mr Jankovic, I will dedicate my presentation to the annual report of the Citizens' Protector which is divided into several different continents, which is perfectly and naturally, since there is no segment of social political life in Serbia that directly affects human dignity and the rights of every individual in the state of Serbia. The best indicator in which it focuses on all human rights issues mentioned in this report is Kosovo and Metohija, which is unfortunately very little mentioned in your report. You also say in the report that one of the basic reasons for human rights to function is that there is social responsibility, that there are safe institutions. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, the human rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are much more than that. There we have naked violence, literally over the law. Full of violence against our citizens of the Serbian state. However, you also say in the report itself that you cannot deal with human rights in Kosovo and Metohija precisely because, according to Resolution 1244, the issue is in the jurisdiction of Umnik. Mr. Jankovic, we in 2013 when we call on Umnik as if we're not calling on anyone. Because it is a devastating and wrong policy that the EU has no alternative to UNMIK almost replaced by EULEX and it has virtually no jurisdiction today in Kosovo and Metohija. So, you mention Kosovo pensions in the report, you talk about unemployment, so you mention that social dimension of human rights when it comes to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. What about constitutional rights? Political rights, in general, are fundamental, existential rights which are indeed the real issue when we talk about Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You know, if you just say it's a UNMIK issue, it's none of our business, I'm afraid that's what we're going through with the policy of the final act. I'm just going to give you an example. When UNMIK decided at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica in 2007, to waive the obligation to organise elections in Kosovo and Metohija, in breach of Resolution 1244, that the Serbian government had then had the opportunity or to accept that decision and continue to violate Resolution 1244 or on the other hand to accept and organise elections. The Serbian government, then under the leadership of Vojislav Kostunica, organised these elections despite all the pressures and blackmails, eventually these elections passed both UNMIK and all, when I speak to all the largest Western states that have accepted these elections and thus accepted the legal status of Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, which results in our state institutions in Kosovo and Metohija operating for days. So we see that the determination to defend our territory and how it is shown in this case is effective, not simply to express one principled point of view. That is why I believe that you had to be more determined and persistent in protecting the rights of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija when it comes to one project that bears the title "Electronic Approach of the Protector of Citizens". You know that the DSS has submitted this initiative that if there are even other local self-governments, therefore, these projects where citizens have the opportunity to contact the Citizens' Protector via the Internet, then it exists in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as how our people down there would have something to say and ask the Citizens' Protector for help. If Norway was paying for the project, so perhaps it did not want to be introduced, for example, in Kosovo and Metohija, the state of Serbia also had to pay for the project to be implemented in the part of the state of Serbia called Kosovo and Metohija in those local self-governments. Also, if there are local offices in Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedji, I am talking about the local offices of the Citizens' Protectors, certainly those offices had to exist in Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. Look, if there is an entire apparatus and a system of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, where we have hospitals, schools, where the state of Serbia works in Kosovo and Metohija, why couldn't one office, for example, exist in Kosovo Mitrovica? She could, believe she could. I really think that there was a need to make more effort to reach such an office. It is not just the existence of the office, but the presence of a Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija that is extremely important at the moment. When you also spoke about media, i.e. incorrect information, you had to point to the following, because incorrect information directly affects human rights, i.e. true and complete and timely information that is necessary when it comes to the rights of Serbian citizens. We've had opportunities to listen to all kinds of news, all kinds of misinformation, or falsifications that were on the front pages of the media before the signing of the Brussels Agreement. This was aimed at showing these Brussels agreements as agreements that are of state and national interest, as now these agreements have given Serbia much more than what was on those front pages when it came to these reports and what was offered to the state of Serbia. Also, I think you've had to comply with the law, and you have that possibility under Article 19. The Law on the Citizens' Protector to launch a proposal to assess the constitutionality of four government regulations, also a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality, the Brussels Agreement, a plan for implementation, because the Brussels Agreement violates Serbia's human rights in KIM, where the Serb people are violently extradited to the false state of Kosovo. I think these are very important issues that seem purely political in the first place, but our people live down there. I think you agree with me that the citizens of Serbia are both at KIM and that they have the right to seek help from the Citizens' Protector. That is why it is very important to be more determined to help, because human rights are universal rights and you have the right to be present at KIM and this exposure is no criticism of me, and we have supported your re-election and you are doing well, Mr. Jankovic. This is about one principle that everyone does what is up to him and then Serbia would be much better, and that is why I think you must be more determined, when it comes to this issue and my exposure in this regard is a kind of encouragement in your obligation to help the Serbian people in KIM as well. Speaking of the Serb people, it is indeed a synonym for the threat of human rights in the 21st century in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19352	The word is Sasa Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19353	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. Of course I took your criticism as well-intentioned, so that it might be different, but it's not easy for me to listen to criticism about something I'd like to be different myself. At least I want to give false hope to anyone. Namely, the Protector of Citizens everywhere in the world, therefore, is without executive authority, but controls how the executive government respects the rights of citizens and that power affects it to do otherwise. Dear Mr. Petkovic, the authorities that have the active power in KIM territory, the Citizens' Protector has no theoretical ability to influence them either. So, I don't see how I can be crying and justify my job. I will read, for the sake of Serbian and Serbian citizens with KIM, what it really says in my report: "According to the information available and based on the allegations of complaints, the citizens of KIM, especially those of non-Albanian nationalities living in enclaves, are hostages to current political processes and are facing violations of the rights of the inconceivable remnant of Europe." The more difficult the formulation can't be said, it's inconceivable, it's incomparable what happens to them with the problems we're talking about the rest of Europe. That's right. Authorities, especially in enclaves, are not the authorities that control the Republic of Serbia. When I tried to get control, I was prevented from entering KIM territory, it was a few years ago when there was another government, writing that I was going on a tour of the monastery, and actually going into control, so that after that control, I couldn't have any effect and I don't think I can lie to anyone. What I can do, I try to do, and I find very little support in the executive government. What I can do is that part of the government that still controls the Republic of Serbia, that I can influence it. Here you have information that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has told the people of Serbian nationality in the territory of Kosovo who have been employed or worked in institutions controlled by Pristina, to leave the job and to give them another job. Some of them did it. The only source of income they left for their family, and they didn't get a job on our side. I have to talk to our government about it, and it's hard to go, and I feel terrible about it, which, of course, I can open up a Skype library and have citizens with kim complain about me and my associates. All we can do with their complaints is go home with them. We can't influence that, I wish we could. I'll tell you something, that I've talked to the representatives of the European Commission recently about the following, the Brussels Agreement means, among other things, that the regulations in force on KIM territory will be actually regulations that come from Pristina. Thus, even the theoretical possibility of the influence of the Guardian of Citizens is lost, even theoretically, it is now only theoretical. I didn't have a chance to talk to anyone in our government about it, because in the government they didn't think we should talk about it, but the people of the European Commission are interested in finding some kind of co-operation, to allow the Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at least the one who is in the territory, in which that power is acting, in some way affecting it, but to make his job towards the citizens of Serbian nationality and other non-Albanian citizens more efficient than it does, because currently Kosovo Frankfurt, the one who is called Kosovo Frankfurt, is not considered effective, unlike the Florist of the Republic of Serbia, who is considered to be effective in international circles. So it's hard when you criticize me for it, I accept criticism, but I don't want to create confidence in a part of Serbia that I can help them when I can't help them. Those authorities operating in Kosovo, when the Citizens' Protector determines a failure to damage citizens' rights, should accept that determination and follow that determination and recommendations. The whole point of the Pristina authorities is that they do not recognise the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and they certainly, we tried it, they will not listen to what the Simeon of the Republic of Serbia says just because it is the Simeon of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why I am acting the way I behave in relation to it. As for the launch of an assessment of the constitutionality of the government's regulation on the Brussels Agreement, I think it is indeed a couple of excellent political-state issues, and I don't think the Citizens' Protector, that the Simeon of the Republic of Serbia has a key role to play in this. In the end, the Constitutional Court decides on the issue of constitutionality which, by its own initiative, can launch whenever it wants. I don't think, unfortunately, that the Simeon of the Republic of Serbia can play a crucial role in such important things as this is important to all of us that the highest authorities of the Republic of Serbia are discussing on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19354	Thank you. The word is Petar Petkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19355	Mr. Jankovic, I fully understand you and when you say that you cannot influence, that you are not executive authority, and I understand that, but on the other hand I know what the obligations are, I know what the Constitution prescribes, what the laws prescribe. The Democratic Party of Serbia is in opposition, not executive power, but we have submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality. The Constitutional Court is shamefully silent and let it be silent, while the state of Serbia is collapsing, but when it comes to the court of history that at some point when the country was falling apart, the Constitutional Court judges kept silent about the issue that is truly in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. So that's what I was talking about, that it took somehow more, stronger, open in Belgrade to react, when it comes to the Brussels Agreement. It's not just a political question, we're now bringing it to human rights level. We know of a referendum held at KIM last year, where the list of Serbs with KIM voted against the institutions of the fake state of Kosovo. Now we have a Brussels deal that forced them into the false state of KIM. Where are the human rights there if we talk about this level, not to talk about the Constitution, the law and respect for international law? That's what I was talking about, and that's why I think it's very important that even though you're the smallest link, you do what you do, that you, as you say, save the soul, fill the last letter of the law as it's meant for you, because that's how we can do what's up to us, because if we all say it, that's the answer, we've raised our hands from it; believe me, it will be. If that's how the Albanians did it, they wouldn't have come to this day. We are unfortunately in a situation that as an opposition party we are doing everything we can, and when it comes to the Vidovdan protest, and when it comes to all proposals to the Constitutional Court and the initiatives here in parliament, we are doing what is up to us, and the citizens of Serbia will certainly notice it. Thank you. President (Nobojsa Stefanovic): Thank you. The word is Sasa Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19356	Shortest, without my intention to continue talking on this subject, if there is no new essentials. So, my right, not my duty to raise the question of the constitutionality of the act, which, by my assessment, violates human rights. In the Government Regulation, as I have read, I could not find a formal and legal provision that is contrary to human rights guarantees, whether the Brussels Agreement, or the Government Regulation, is generally in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the issue goes beyond the jurisdiction of the Citizens' Protectors. Once again, I have considered, a provision that, as in other cases in which I have run a constitutional assessment, which says something that is contrary to the guarantees of human rights, therefore, from that chapter of the Constitution that talks about it, I couldn't find it, so, with all the understanding of your attitude, I can hardly do without new arguments to do otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19357	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19358	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of independent bodies, I can immediately state that I am encouraged by your courage to report in these circumstances. Right at the beginning of Mr. Jankovic's speech, when I heard that 20,000, if I heard it correctly, were, I must admit that this information was completely surprising to me, not because it is many people who feel the danger of their rights in various domains, but because there are still 20,000 people who believe you can help them. So, inexhaustible is the human hope that justice will somehow be achieved. With justice, it's a little more complicated. We don't know where she lives. The ancient Greeks say, Tara Temis, in a cave, where she oversees it, stems from human rights. But justice, as far as I've realized for many years, is something that's been given, not given. She's just not there or she's not in perfect sight anywhere. It would be terrible if people didn't look for her, and that's what keeps us, even though we know it's hard to get to her, we're going after her. The problem of human rights has arisen in the last century with the two bloodiest wars in mankind's history, where millions of people have left their lives, the century in which the most monstrous camps in the East and the West were created, and God has created us. Because of all the horrors that the 20th century has given us, it has brought one beautiful thing, the people's awareness that they must be human beings, that the human mind must be preserved, and that without justice and respect for human rights, it is simply not possible. Since then, since the Nuremberg process, human rights have developed. What's interesting is that they go wide, they cover those that they didn't even think they'd cover. As universal rights, it extends to everything, to children, to animals, I think that soon and to plants, environmentalists will have the right to mention it. It's a good process. But the question arises, is this what humanity is progressing, taking into account what is happening, nevertheless, primarily on the social plan of the terrible destruction of political communities against billionaires and hungry people and how to survive here somewhere a trail of justice? We are at risk of human rights to all people who are unemployed, let's face it, they have the right to work, and that's what God knows what he's talking about. So it's just one form of endangered rights, but they're threatened in a much more direct way for whole layers. They are at risk for women, for people with special needs, for children, for some national groups, there is much that could be brought under human rights violations or equality. Equality is an act of human rights, but if we don't have a deep human empathy that implies ambition to be human, we won't achieve much. Let's imagine a little Roma girl who's also handicapped, say, disabled. Who is she equal with in this country? As a Roma woman - not, as a woman - is not, as a poor woman - not, as an uneducated - is not. We can sort as much as we want, see that this little creature, which is human, and we have to have a sense of it, is not equal, and those who are not equal have many. It's the political community's job to secure as much equality as possible. I've been writing and talking about human rights for a very long time, and I wouldn't be giving any lectures right now, but I would point out here a moment that I want to point out, which is in the Citizens' Protection Report. It's about the media. It happened to us that suddenly many media freedoms are perceived as freedom to all sorts of things. That wouldn't be so bad yet, it's always been in history, but we have one phenomenon of so-called tabloidisation with deep co-operation with the police. Now, that's a threat to human rights. One of the fundamental human rights is freedom from fear. So, no intimidation, because dictatorships can't kill everyone. They kill each other, they beat the shit out of others, and the other ones scare the shit out of them. Therefore, intimidation is part of human rights violations. If you create a climate to make people afraid in the morning to open a newspaper without any responsibility what's going to happen, it's a serious violation of human rights. You there state, quite right, legally, that there is an injury, of course, the secrecy of the investigation, that there is a problem of making assumptions of innocence and all that is coming, but it is scandalous that political influence factors do not rebel much stronger. How is it possible to get out first in the papers, how was he acting, how scared he was, what did he say, who was going to be arrested, when and then it's being realized by the police? The problem has been identified, and I hope that all together, first and foremost as a congregation, we will be very careful not to allow this problem to be solved, i.e. not to allow further savagery and this co-operation. Who violates human rights? Who can break it? First, the one with the power, and the power has the state. And who in the state? Those who have the most power, first of all the police. We have a strange phenomenon these days, a celebration in the gendarmes. I don't mind, like any other profession, celebrate. However, it is unusual in the normal world to celebrate so much, but we have a statement that the gendarme is a guarantee of human rights and freedom. Now, that's a dangerous statement. I think it is given out of ignorance, because freedom and rights are guaranteed by the Constitution, which is the result of the opinion and consent of the people, the national sovereignty and the assembly that represents it. No one can delegate the police. She will guard the order, she will take care of the security of the citizens and their property, and she will leave rights and freedoms for those who guarantee them. Then a video appears – God and the gendarmes are guarding Serbia. Now you've included God as your ally with all that. I see a man looks almost like a marshal, a great medal, etc., all that's good, but why is God there with the gendarmes, that they're guarding Serbia? Without them, Serbia wouldn't be there? If we want to joke a little bit, there's one folk proverb, it was before, when the gendarmes catch someone, they say they kill God in it. Now it turns out it's not like that anymore, they're not gonna kill God, they're gonna get along a little bit, save Serbia. It's all a joke, but it makes a bad impression and we have to avoid it, because it's absolutely no use to us. When we add the other problems, I wouldn't go on with it. When we entered the Council of Europe, when I was President of Parliament and I was supposed to give a speech, along with the secretary general who took us in. I said one sentence then and I always repeat it – I am much more pleased with our obligations by entering the Council of Europe than with the privilege of being there. So it is our obligation to respect the human rights and fundamental values of European democracy, human rights and the rule of law. If we're really trying to put this in our country and our system, we've done a lot more than someone gives us some kind of diplomatic recognition that won't make us very happy, but the problem is what we're going to be able to do with it. The problem of human rights with us is the most perilous, besides what I've been saying, in a working relationship. Not only the unemployed, but the employees have big problems. They must suffer often from non-receivement, which is a crime, exploitation of people, and non-payment. There's a lot of companies that just don't pay for it, especially in private companies. Then, there's abuse, overtime, discrimination, mostly women not to give birth at that time, etc., to not rebel. In a difficult situation, people suffer. It is our duty as an MP to have this empathy, that feeling with a dissuaded working people, and that, however we may, we can encourage solidarity, not to violate social rights and create a society with great solidarity, without which I do not believe it can survive at all. I hope we will have a chance to talk about human rights, because if I understand Mr. Phil correctly in Brussels the night before last, who said there is a deep analysis of human rights and the rule of law in Serbia. I can't wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19359	Mr. Jankovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19360	Thank you very much. Mr. Micunovic, when you say that you're surprised that there are 20,000 people who believe they will get justice, it's my pleasure, and yet I'm not over-exaggerated, on the other hand, to tell you that last year there were fewer. So, those who believe that they will get the satisfaction of justice, there are 30% more in the Guardian every year, except that the Citizens' Protector, as I said in the first presentation, can no longer guarantee that this number of citizens with this capacity of professional service will be as high and correct as it should be. I hope that you as the National Assembly will not allow this authority of the institution, which is the authority not only of the citizens' and control bodies, but also of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to collapse heavily and I believe that you will support the necessary changes. The issue of separation of the church from the state. Thank you for pointing that out. I did it the first time in a report to the National Assembly four years ago when I quoted an official Internet presentation by the Ministry of Faith, on which only by believing man is a free man. So, the government's authority allows itself to write that only a trusted man is a free man, and everyone else who doesn't believe they're free. There's a shift in that for the better. So, I don't have anything critical to say about faith, but the state and the church must have clearly demarcated lines. Some of those lines I tried to point out when I asked to revise our legal framework on churches and religious communities. Unfortunately, it hasn't been done yet. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, in one respect, touched that subject. That's necessary. In the end, the issue of labour, human rights violations in relation to the right to work. You have noted that this is the first topic that I have started this report with, and that is, the largest number of complaints made by citizens' protectors who are involved in the work, in addition to what I have stated in this report, and as regards the daily systematic violation of citizens' rights to pension and health insurance because the state has allowed employers to break laws for decades, not to pay contributions, the competent authorities have been silent, and workers have lost their right. This National Assembly recently passed amendments to the law that made it impossible, therefore, to the one which the employer left without a contribution by breaking the law, to pay in any way the contribution if more than 10 years had passed, which is very often the case. The past government has selectively and unconstitutionally, without legal basis, tried to solve the problem by formally combining the internship with individual companies. It means, formally, that someone has paid contributions, but the money in the fund is not paid and there is no money. Another question – why in one company, i.e. why do workers of one company, who do so in the privatisation process, and practically the buyer of that privatised company, and the previous owner deprive them of the obligation, and in some other case not to do so? Why don't you put together an internship for employees in private companies? Are they less valuable? Are their pension rights and the right to health insurance less valuable than the one who worked in a social enterprise? The Constitutional Court eventually had to say it was unconstitutional. This government and this National Assembly have passed a law that is now legal. On a proposal from the Prime Minister, the legal option is to write off the tax debt to the company in the process of restructuring and privatisation and to write off unpaid contributions, without any criteria. Taxes and contributions prescribed by the law which should apply equally to all, the Government, on a proposal from the Minister, without the legal criteria laid down as if they were possible, decides not to exempt a company from tax and not to pay contributions to the Health and Pension Insurance Fund. I don't know what we have to say more than saying that's what I said, that it's a knife in the back of the workers and a slap on the security employers, because even the employer who pays the contributions has bigger costs. If he participates in the tender his price will be higher, he will not get a job, in the end he who does not pay the contributions will get that job, and he will have even greater profits, because of what he earns from that job he does not pay, and it is an invitation to break the law. That's why I'm asking you here in the National Assembly to support my request to reconsider this, and as soon as possible change. Finally, for these 20,000 people, however, I believe that the reason why citizens' protectors appear is still an effective institution, and that what I am saying, despite being unhappy that not all recommendations have been made, that 70% of them have been carried out, within what I leave behind, and that there is a purpose. So, it is not a wasteful hope, but it is still realistic and realistic and happens that after citizens come across closed doors and blockage of the system, however, after addressing me and my colleagues and colleagues, in collaboration with other state bodies that listen to our recommendations or solutions, however, citizens come to satisfaction. But as long as there is one single citizen for whom the competent state control authority has established by the Constitution that his constitutional rights are violated by the irregular and illegal work of the authorities, and that authority says - I don't care, neither you nor I can be satisfied. I'm not, and I know neither are you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19361	National MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19362	Dear President of the Assembly, Mrs Petrusic, Mr Jankovic, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, before I begin to talk about what the agenda is, or what we are all in charge of talking about today, I would like to point out that last July 27th, a new republican government, whose headquarters is SNS, was formed. I remind the public in Serbia that this report is regulatory bodies for the whole of 2012, which means it also refers to the previous government, whose headquarters was DS, as well as the new government, whose headquarters is SNS. All that good someone wants to accept and praise, to say that it is his and that it belongs to him, and that everything that is not good belongs to someone else, to someone who took responsibility after July 27, 2012. I would not say that this is a logic that can lead us to help the citizens of Serbia, give them some hope, give them the possibility that if they can't make it right through the court, through the police, they can do it through an institution called the Protector of Citizens. I am grateful to Mr Jankovic, as well as Mrs Petrusic, for having been here before us all morning and for carrying out their report that was very subdued, detailed and comprehensive, while at the same time answering questions, suggestions and remarks that were principled by certain MPs, and totally unprincipled by other MPs who were very much voting, and certainly working in this assembly, passing laws, responsible for everything that happened until July 27, 2012. Of course, five years before that, because these consequences didn't come suddenly, they didn't come from yesterday, they came back years ago. I'd say more than a decade. We came out of a society that was communist or quasi communist, then we entered a society that was democratic, and I would say quasi democratic, where we had all the institutions, but they were just forms for it. You couldn't satisfy the point. You couldn't achieve your basic, human and civil rights, and that's why many people reached out to the Strasbourg court. That is why Serbia has lost and pays for the damage, sometimes smaller, sometimes bigger, and all because the institutions of this system in Serbia have not functioned properly. The judiciary is in a very bad, catastrophic state. in a state that was like a plane flying without fuel and the question was when it would fall. It was only a matter of time before that happened. It is fortunate that last year another government was formed, where SNS headquarters is and where much has changed. I would like to commend it, of course, to commend my parliamentary group, because we have contributed and thank Mr Jankovic for recognising it and said in his report that all decisions of the Constitutional Court were very worrying. That is what the Venice Commission said, that Serbia's judiciary is at low levels, and if we continue like this, it will be difficult for everyone. What I want to say as an MP is that in any case, I will support and always in every place, to increase the capacity of these regulatory bodies. I mean a body called the Protector of Citizens, as well as a body called the Trustee of Gender Equality. Your capacities must be increased in both technical terms and materially and financially. Although you, Mrs Petrusic, mentioned today that no one from southern Serbia has spoken to you, a man comes to the conclusion that in southern Serbia, from Nis, Leskovec, Vranja, there is no problem, that there is absolutely no ideal state of mind and that everyone there respects the human rights of Roma, women's rights, respect employment, no domestic harassment, believe that it is absolutely not true. I think the first thing that doesn't come to you is that there's one fear of being reported, in some previous period, and I hope that now they'll be freed of that fear, because in this way we're sending a message that they can turn to you, but they can't all find you, they can't all come to Nis, so they're looking for Mrs Petrusic or some of your associates, but you have to open an office in Vranje that might be in charge of Kosovo's Moraravlje, for people who live there in very difficult conditions, who need help, which need a warm word, if nothing more. In that sense, the SNS parliamentary group will absolutely support, as it is, and in the Voting Day, of course, we will give support to your reports. I just wanted to say a few more things. As for the fact that, Mr. Jankovic, you were approached by people, you said 20,000 people last year, and since you are the Guardian of Citizens, that number has increased by 30% every year. I believe that five years ago it was the same torment of these people, but a very small number of people knew that you existed. Now that increase is one encouragement for people to know that you are the institution to be addressed. On the other hand, it's a pride for you, because you've shown that you're doing your job the right way. That's why last year, when we decided who would be the new Citizens' Protector and when we chose, we didn't think much about it. We didn't want to change, we didn't want to do anything that other parliamentary groups or other parties do, that it all starts with us, that we're someone who's the smartest and knows everything. Of course, what's good, we'll keep it. Those people who know their jobs, we'll choose. That's when I voted with a lot of capacity and a lot of desire for you to continue. I hope, given the objectivity of this report, the comprehensiveness and all that it does and what it needs to do with this report, of course it deserves attention and all the praise. What I particularly want to point out in your report, which concerns the protection of the rights of those who are deprived of freedom, there are many problems, you know it well, and the public of Serbia knows it. The worst part is that we get the impression that when you deprive someone of their freedom or give him custody, then you've lifted all his human rights, then you've taken away all his civil liberties, and that's not the case. He's been deprived of nothing but freedom. All other rights exist, and if you hold that face that you have deprived of freedom for 48 hours in that police detention or in the deprivement of freedom, put it in one room that looks like a scene to film horrors and horrors, where you don't have water, where you can't satisfy the basic human need, if at any point in that room that isn't under the cameras, someone can go in there to kick you, to insult you, to spit you out, to tell you whatever it is you need to know, to force you to admit something, even though you haven't done it, not to give you the right to call your lawyer because you don't have a place to call him, because it's all taken away from you, these are some things that you have to pay attention to. We, as a party in power, do not hide from it. We're just pointing out that's how it is. We agree, and we want to change that with you. You'll have the support of us, either way, from me or from all the colleagues who do the work. And also, in that sense, you have to propose certain legal projects, to initiate with us, that we do it together with you. Also, what is very important, the conclusion, point 7) – it is necessary for the Government to take measures to facilitate access to courts and justice and to ensure that the constitutional right to a fair trial and trial is achieved within a reasonable time. That is what it insists on in all talks with people from the EU. All of them are with the idea that Serbia has the rule of law enforcement. This respect for the law can only be achieved through courts. The courts are the ones who make decisions, who judge where someone's property is being decided, where someone's freedom is being decided. If this isn't done in a fair and fair procedure, I'm afraid we'll end all proceedings before the Strasbourg court. I also know that the procedure for a fair trial is in the assembly procedure within a reasonable time frame, so we will discuss it very quickly. One more thing about the conclusions of the 2012 Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, you have identified which groups are the most discriminated against in Serbia. Of course, in the first place are Roma, then poor people, people with disabilities, unfortunately, older people, women, members of sexual minorities. They're groups that are most endangered. If several more of these poor women join together, I'm afraid there's only more anxiety. You have also well recognised the areas of social relations in which discrimination is the widest, labour and employment. There are the conditions that exist, which are written and those that are not written, which are rolled under the grain, and which create conditions that require certain compensation, some kind of conduct perhaps immoral in order to reach work. Unfortunately, it's out of the question to all the societies, including ours. So when it's public talk, it has to be said that it's known that we're not behind all this and that we're going to try all together to fight these irregularities in the lives of these groups, because I'm afraid they won't be able to deal with it, they have no one to turn to. It's gonna be hard to go, but I don't know, we'll do everything we can. What I am reading and presenting to the citizens of Serbia are the conclusions that the National Assembly in voting day will adopt. We accepted everything you suggested. The parent committees have considered all your proposals and have reached certain conclusions. These are the conclusions I'm talking about right now. I mentioned it, and I'm going to say it again, the National Assembly supports the establishment of the regional offices of the trustees and, of course, should support it. At the very end, I want to say something that may be encouraging, when we in Vranje, as SNS, were running for council, or candidates for council, we had more than 40% of the female candidates on the list. Now that we've entered power, there are over 50% of women in Vranje. That's what I can boast and expect to have over 50% of women after the next election. But if you give women power, then we men will have a little trouble, but I'm willing to do what's best for Serbia to finally start, because we've been in that quasi-democracy for a very long time. It is my desire that after the next elections and in this assembly there be at least 50% of women. So in voter day, the SNS will support the conclusions made on the basis of your reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19363	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19364	Thank you. Dear Mrs Petrusic, dear Mr Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the people, these three reports represent an unhappiness of human rights in Serbia and should not be fooled. There is a certain tendency that this unhappi image is even worsened, as there is a possibility that human rights restriction can be compensated for by the excessive co-operation of the government in Kosovo. Serbia is already recognised today as one poor and unsuccessful state, one of the two most unsuccessful states in Europe, next to BiH. So this poverty, this failure and this danger that Serbia is currently in, because it is facing bankruptcy, normally to generate and endanger human rights and freedoms. I'm afraid next time, if we meet in this House, we'll talk about how much has changed, but worse. Mrs Petrusic, you mentioned the value system as a generator for increasing discrimination, or intolerance. I completely agree with you. Indeed, until Serbia starts to modernise, in changing the system of values which is currently dominant and which has been practically built in the last 20 years, Serbia cannot change and no human rights that is so important for a good life in a well-organised state can be improved. Mr. Jankovic, you mentioned the irrational spending of funds. I completely agree with you. It would often be money to invest well somewhere, however, if there were willfulness, less haughtiness and arrogance, we would not have come to this situation where the budget deficit amounts to over 80 billion dinars, with a tendency to grow to 200 billion dinars, which, you will allow, poses a huge threat to the survival of the state and, in fact, to the survival of this people and their human rights. It is truly devastating for the flawes that only 22% of your recommendations have been implemented, Mr. Jankovic. I don't think you're responsible for that. Don't get me wrong. Here you mention some 1,314 procedures, organ control and public authorities you've taken, and from that you've realized 375, where the authorities have accepted your recommendations and that's 22%. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think the Guardian is responsible for that. I see absolute responsibility in power, I see in the political will to meet the recommendations of the Commissioner and for equality, and the Protector of citizens and Mr. Rodoljub Sabic. The bottom line is that these recommendations, in some ways, need to be ensured in terms of realising them, to build a mechanism, to make these recommendations that you mark in these reports come true by the authorities, or public authorities. (President: Time. ) It is necessary to establish certain sanctions in order to achieve the expected result in your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19365	The word is Mr. Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19366	Thank you very much. I'll explain. Like I said, and I find one single unrecommended recommendation inadmissible. To tell you the truth, when it comes to the percentage of the implementation of the recommendations was not 20%, but less than 50%, I would not see the purpose of my existence. One is the initiation of control procedures, and the other are procedures in which irregularities are indeed identified. It often happens, even more often, that there are no identified irregularities. Although, I'll remind you, in almost 30% of cases, there are irregularities, which is extremely high. In the most developed countries, it is only a few percent. So, when the Citizens' Protector, i.e. Frankfurt, initiates the control procedure, in ten cases, or in 100 cases in the Netherlands, in a number of cases, it is indeed found that the citizen was right at the beginning. It's more than 100 cases, 30 cases that the citizen was right and that the government's authority was illegally and incorrectly working. The real statistics suggest that the number of complaints, whose foundingness was found in the complaint procedure 714, was that there were also 375 other procedures that the authorities themselves immediately accepted that they had wronged and corrected the work, that the number of recommendations implemented was further 197 and that is almost 70%. Once again, I am not satisfied for one moment, although 70% is the European average. I ask you to support the conclusion that the Committee on Human and Minority Rights of the National Assembly has proposed, which is that the Government undertakes to carry out you, the National Assembly, on any unexecuted recommendation, as is the ministry's duty to carry out me, but that the Government performs you, which is why this recommendation has not been carried out, and that you have the possibility that the Government should, in the most concrete way, ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19367	The word is Mrs. Nevena Petrusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19368	I'd just like to talk about what's been said. I'm really glad we're here to point out that it's necessary to change one value system, all of us. In this sense today's story of education and teaching materials, the story of teaching practice is something that is very important. As we all know, one complete equality is never and nowhere, even in those most developed democratic states with developed democratic institutions, achieved. This does not take away the meaning of our efforts, our struggle to build a society in which people not only have equal rights, because it is now guaranteed by our laws, but really have equal opportunities. Having equal opportunities is much more than having equal rights. Whenever it comes to minorities, then we need to know that there is also responsibility for the position of minorities, whatever minority it is and whatever minority it is, that it is the responsibility of the majority. Here I thank you for your express willingness to get support for the idea we have, for our plan, which is to establish, at least for the beginning, three regional centres. We've seen, our experience has shown that whenever we go somewhere, we're in a place for a few days, we're in a Roma settlement, we're in a small place, we present our institution, after ten days, we get complaints. Of course, that confirms it, and I'll repeat it here even though at the beginning I said that there are no complaints from certain parts of Serbia, and there are parts of Serbia from which no complaint has come, and it doesn't by any chance show that things are right and there are no discrimination there. Of course there is, but people aren't encouraged enough, and I want to connect this to what's probably waiting for the National Assembly, that's to deal with the problem of the free legal aid system. Poor people who are in problems of different kinds and not only are their rights to equality injured, but many others – both human and ordinary rights. So they're totally people who don't have any access to justice, and that's something we have to change. This also confirms the fact that in 2012 we received a phone call, because for now we have to communicate and what little we have in the office, with modest capacities we can ensure that it works twice a week, 1,000 people have reported. They report and sometimes they know we're not in charge of their problem, but they want to hear who to turn to. This confirms that we have discrimination precisely in the exercise of the right to access justice. I also thank you for these helpful suggestions and for insisting on bringing up domestic violence, gender-based violence, to point out the problem faced by pregnant women. Of course, when they set up a labour inspection, when they do not understand that their role is to deal with discrimination in the workplace, when there is no great opportunity to provide quick court intervention, then individual intervention, including the President of the Assembly, is something that has helped someone to exercise their right. Of course, that's not the solution. How many of those who won't be able to protect their rights in this way, so we need to build awareness. It's something that means everyone knows what's in our laws when it comes to a ban on discrimination. Can you imagine today in Germany a pilot project is being conducted in three cities where there is an anonymous application for work. So she doesn't even know what someone's name is, because from names and last names, she can tell which nation, which is faith, and where it comes from. Can we imagine and what else we have to do to make that kind of opportunity, to have a chance at employment, to achieve in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19369	Replica, Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19370	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad that in us, the opposition LDP, you recognize some partners for some joint business. However, I would like to refer you to budget rebalancing. So it is the budget rebalance that will reduce the funds and the Trustee for equality and the Trustee for the availability of information. So it's that this assembly majority is going to vote for budget rebalancing, and this assembly majority is going to vote that rebalance, and you are going to get less funding. Mr. Jankovic has already talked about the problem of doing certain jobs that have already been done, and only for the future. How it will realise all those projects that are so necessary for this society that has both morally and economically and politically failed and therefore is so important for all these independent state bodies. Unfortunately, it's in your name that you're independent and stately. It's clear to me that you have one role that needs to be balanced and harmonised. With these reports of yours, you have shown that you can be professional enough, professional enough, and you recognize enough the needs of this society, but apparently the government doesn't recognize it in you, or recognize how much it takes to give you support. We, from the opposition, will surely give you support. If nothing else, here in Parliament. It is certain that you, first of all, must act, to influence a government that has the real power to do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19371	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19372	Thank you. Dear President and respected representatives of independent state institutions, when we talk about independent state institutions, I must mention what has already been said today, that this is a relatively young phenomenon in Serbia's political system, and that the human rights situation is directly related to social values and the strength of the institution. That's exactly what these reports tell me when I read them. So these reports are something that's completely correct, which is real and what's the situation on the ground. When, on the other hand, we compare it, then we see where all the weaknesses of our system are and where we don't have the strength of the institutions. There was talk today about gender equality and there was talk of women being discriminated against and I agree. I agree, but it certainly requires a deeper analysis. It's not just a matter of budgets right now, it's a question of will and will. Very often women need to reconcile, both career and private obligations. Very often this requires deeper and more precise analysis, but also systemic solutions. We were talking about domestic violence. It's not something one institution, one institution or trustee of equality can solve. I believe that we will all agree that without the cooperation of the institutions, both the judiciary and the police and the health care, we will not quickly come to a solution and also without a social work centre. It is through reading these reports that we see where all of this system has not responded enough to the needs of citizens, where it is not built enough and we see the weakness of all those institutions, operating locally across regional and state levels. Of course, the realization of all this is not possible without the co-operation of the executive, legislative authority, and without the constant warning of independent state institutions. I think it's both clear and unequivocal support from the state and its organs, when it comes to the work of these institutions. Of course, the citizens' rights guardian institution established by the adoption of the 2005 Law, and only in 2007 began to work. It went a lot faster with the Commissioner, but I think we should all be proud when the European Commission report says that legislative and institutional frameworks for respect for human rights exist, and active measures have been taken to ensure their implementation. However, further efforts are needed to implement international legal instruments. This is an official document. There's no story here about who's right, who's wrong. This is all a common task, and this is all something we're not going to do, unless there's this educational thing besides a preventive measure. It's just one of the roles of both the Trustee and the Protector of the Rights of the Citizens. I think they've been doing it great so far. Of course, the Protector of the rights of citizens takes care of the protection and improvement of human freedoms and rights, of increasing transparency and accountability. It's something that Serbia, at this point, is missing. I want Serbia in which the best and brightest, according to its skills and abilities, will get an opportunity, in which there will be no criterion and criteria of anything other than personal ability, personal knowledge and, ultimately, personal responsibility. I think that's the Serbia we all want here, no matter what party we come from. When we talk about the number of complaints, I watched, when it comes to the Protector of the Rights of Citizens, in 2007, it was 406, in 2012, 4.472. And it doesn't tell me personally that there's something on the rise, but it tells me, on the one hand, that people have an increased awareness of what independent state institutions are doing, on the other hand, that there's trust, exactly, in these institutions, and yet on the third hand, when we look at that there's a lot of unfounded complaints, then we all have a task together to promote what human rights are, which is the area of discrimination and what is the role of each of the institutions and what they should do. I think we have a bond and a lot of where we could put together effort and work. Also, increasing the number of contacts with citizens is something likely to condition an increased number of complaints with the Citizens' Protectors, as well as with the Commissioner for Equality. When we say that every year there are 30% more applications, I think that's good. It means that we as a society have begun to develop, to understand what our rights are, but we also have to work on what the obligations of each institution are. I think that accepting this recommendation is also one good thing and that it is on a slight rise, which certainly speaks of increasing the independence of these institutions. What I would appeal to, as someone who comes from one of Serbia's most undeveloped municipalities, and looking at those analyses that say that about 37% of people reported from Belgrade and around Belgrade, and from the Citizens' Protector, and from the Trustee of Equality, are to bring those rights closer to the smaller environments. When I looked at all the people, or structures of the public, being discriminated against, I regrettably have to realize that this is not always a single discrimination, but that it is precisely these groups that have multiple discrimination and that sometimes very often it is very often to understand where discrimination occurred, because sometimes in society it is a generally acceptable model of behaviour for others. As long as we don't change that, I believe we won't have a Serbia that can move faster and better forward. As long as I don't get a Serbia where my child, no matter what half is, which is the nationality, which is the color of the eyes, will be able to get an equal opportunity as a child from Belgrade, Leskovec and every other city, we won't do anything about human rights or faster development. I don't think it's just a solution to giving legal rights, to being equal, but to what Mrs Petrusic was talking about, and that's the policy of equal opportunities. When we all have equal opportunities, live in Belgrade, Zitist, Novi Sad or Leskovac, then Serbia will be a better place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19373	The word is Mr. Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19374	Thank you so much for what you said. Thirty per cent of complaints are from Belgrade. On the one hand, there is almost 30% of Serbia living in Belgrade. On the other hand, I opened 15 virtual offices throughout Serbia. That's what Mr. Petkovic mentioned. Practically, Serbian citizens can write directly without any tax, without any legal advice, without hiring a lawyer, the Citizens' Protector and in their own words describe the problem and leave the documents that confirm the problem. They can go to these 15 cities in their local libraries and, with the help of the Librarians, therefore, in the most neutral yet appropriate environment, via audio-video connections, with the least possible costs, talk to my co-workers in the office and make a complaint at the scene that the librarian will pass on to Belgrade. I can tell you that no ombudsman in the world did it, and now they're starting to do it on the case of Serbia. We tried our best to be available to Serbian citizens. Me and my associates go to what's called "Days of the Manchester" and that's what my countrymate and my colleagues from the bar do. When I talked about increasing the number of complaints, I didn't complain. So, if there are 20 thousand citizens in total last year, four and a few thousand formal complaints, you should know that there are eight thousand complaints in Austria from the people of Simeon. It's not bad to have complaints. It is bad, however, to be available to accept complaints, get complaints, and not have the capacity to quickly and efficiently resolve complaints. That is why I am speaking to you and I say that we should not all allow together that institutions that have shown that Serbia is not condemned to average and that Serbian citizens are not condemned to have no protection of their rights, should not allow these institutions to kneel under the enormous burden they are carrying at this time. At the same time, it is really a shame for all of us, as a society and as a state, to be entrusted with information of public importance and data protection personality seven years after its election, there is no adequate space for work, and that there are state bodies, state institutions and public enterprises that have tennis courts in their circles. It's something we don't need to complain to the citizens of Serbia, and I'm saying it now, but something that everyone should stand in the way of. So it's not a big number of complaints, the problem is that these complaints need to be resolved. The problem is that when we solve complaints and find out... Once again, there is a big difference between the Commissioner and the Citizens' Protector. Commissioner Sabic gives binding final legal solutions, and I make recommendations. But when I give them, it must have its consequences. Unfortunately, there's not much. I end up with responsibility and issues of gender equality. So, of course, some things require a change in attitude, a change in culture, a change in cultural matrix and traditional understanding, often this is the case with gender equality, but for some things we have to ask the question of responsibility for violating clearly prescribed and logically clear. We had a so-called two years ago. 20% quota for enrollment in the Criminal Police Academy. Last year, the quota was reduced to 15%, but not in a way that someone said – at least 15% of women will be enrolled, but no more than 15% of women will be enrolled. He made the measure of affirmative action a restriction. To make further efforts and to show that this is completely pointless, such a restriction has not been put in place for self-financed students. So let's say that theoretically it could have been said -- no more than 15% because the installation in the ministry is such that no more than 15% at this point in time of female sex can be made up of police. But how is it possible that if they self-finance, then women can? It's so fragrant, it's so direct, that you have to ask the question at one point -- is it really a lack of 70 other training now, since they're seventy-one, or are we going to put an end to it and say -- is someone going to answer for this? I think it's time to start answering, at least for such drastic failures. Then there'll be a lot less of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19375	The word is Jelena Travar Miljevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19376	I wouldn't call this a replica. First, I'd like to thank you for the information, and I'd like to commend the opening of the virtual offices. I don't think there's a problem with the availability of the institution itself, as far as it may be in the absence of recognition of where someone's rights are all violated. I think that's exactly where we all need to work together, not just you, but we people's MPs, because in addition to having that capacity to adopt laws, we should also control the implementation of those same laws that we adopted and bring Parliament closer to the citizens' work, as well as other institutions. Anyway, I thank you, but I think there's a real problem somewhere in the recognition of what rights are injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19377	Mrs Miljevic, I don't know if you would call it a replica or not, but I am giving you the right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So this was straight to the replica. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19378	I am proud, as a member of the DS, to talk to you today about a report that is quality for a number of reasons, and I will compare them to our social reality here today and talk about them. The existence of independent regulatory bodies is the value of a single society, the European value of a society that we as DS have always supported and brought into this society, even when many who have been in power today have been against it. It would be distasteful for you to take out the stenograms today and read here what's been said in those sessions when you're elected to your post. I am, as someone who has been paid, like you, by the citizens, proud of the fact that if I am not mistaken, Mr Jankovic last year unanimously supported us to continue our work. I am sorry and I feel the need, although I am an MP for the opposition, to apologize to you because such a dominant majority, which are my colleagues, we eat the same bread, did not provide a quorum yesterday, and thus your obligations to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the day probably planned, questioned. It may be, if you allow me a remark, and a relationship to the independence of the institution in Serbia. What happens when independent institutions in Serbia, independent regulatory bodies or NBS independence are not respected, so a party governor is appointed, which is still only in Cuba and North Korea, we can see by course, i.e. never weaker dinar or price instability. You will always have support in the DS for what you are doing, because words, numbers, charts, everything you have written in this report and everything you do, and anyone who has little co-operation with NGOs, with civil society, knows how much you are working with the realistically limited resources that you have, what you are doing and what you have written, if you understand every councilman in Serbia and if you understand every president of the municipality, every level of government, province, Republic, can be very healing for Serbian society. The point isn't that only you exist and once a year you tell us the truth, the point is that everyone understands what it says and that we all move things together for the better. The Democratic Party is today, and you've noticed it in your reports, under the attack of a terrible media hack. Whenever and whatever you say today in Serbia against power, unrelated to whatever level and unrelated to any assembly home, whether in Nis or here in Belgrade, you find yourself exposed to terrible media attacks. You're, if your independence is preserved, and I'm skeptical if we take an example of the National Bank, which I mentioned, the Civil Values dam, the defense for European values, and I'd say both defenses and something I'd call Oriental despotism. Because someone who doesn't have a problem saying today is for the EU, and every night, spins now and the coalition partners and puts them in the tabloids, is certainly not someone who honestly supports your work. It is not a terrible thing for us from the DS that we have survived, staying consistent with our values, and all of us have learned from these values, based on our victories and our defeats, to learn what the EU means. It's not a big deal for us, and we're gonna stand by on our feet with everything that's going on, and you've noticed so well in your report, but it's terrible, I don't know which ones of you are legally authorized, that for this dreary economic reality, for the prices that are growing, for the jobs that are getting lost, every day puts fog in those tabloids of sensationalist inscriptions, as you said, and that not only politicians, but human lives, let's say some girls who don't come down from the front of the tabloids every Saturday. That's creepy! What is the class in Serbia today that the government is willing to do to any individual to make it interesting and to cover the bad situation in society? Some of you were victims of these tabloids, if we take that we are a sample and how this government treats us, probably because you didn't want to fulfill any party orders. Support in us to endure you have. On several occasions, you talk about the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you make recommendations, so on page 127 of the Citizens' Protector's Report, it says that the Ministry of Agriculture should not use its dominant position to citizens. As I said, your report should be read and everyone should apply it as it says, so we all get better. But I'm sorry to doubt it, when a milk crisis is solved by simply raising the limit of aflatoxin. I hope the others don't mind me, Commissioners for the Protection of Equality I want to make a special confession for all the problems. I'm under the circumstances and I know what the problems were to get you started. As a society, we are not even aware of the costs of discrimination for a society. If you have a young person who, by nationality, is Roma or is gay by sexual definition and if that person cannot achieve his potential in the right way, this society may in potential lose an electric engineer, a new Professor Stojkovic. So what you're doing and what others didn't understand when these laws were passed so they voted against the Anti-discrimination Act, they don't understand the potential of fighting discrimination. No one in Serbia today has the right to use their potentials properly because of anything that is everywhere in the normal world. It's not easy, and we in the DS know what it's like to fight for those values because we fight against the windmills throughout our history. What's good is that this fight ends with such success, that you yourself are surprised at what some people stand for after all these fights. I agree, and the Commissioner said, and I think you, too, forgive me, it's a lot of sides, and there's little time, that the Ministry of Education should create a system in which these numbers wouldn't look so bad, that the little kids in my country who grow up next to Roma, Romanians, Hungarians, tomorrow the more open people are going to go out and talk and whose sexual orientation they are, it's not so important right now, in any capacity. We should have an educational impact on children to be, therefore, less aggressive as adults and to understand the potentials of fighting discrimination. I appeal to the Minister of Education and this opportunity to resign for what he did with a small graduation, because if you can't organise a simple test in mathematics and Serbian, I doubt that with prehistory and what you've been saying for the past 20 years, you'll be able to understand what you, dear friends, have written. When a Dejan Mijač walks through Belgrade and approaches him one, not the way you listed, an educated person and says that, because the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, wrote a book in which he put him amongst the Serbs, and there are Serbs, I probably belong to these first ones, I don't know for you, they haven't gotten you through the tabloids yet, then we're like a society in a big problem. This isn't about a political party. It is that every day, for the sake of survival in power, using the instruments of Oriental despotia, we serve the most terrible things to remain in that power. For last, full support. It is a great honor and pleasure to read this report, sometimes with some of you through some NGOs and work together on various projects. Hold on to your fight. You'll have the support of other opposition parties, as I've had a chance to see today. I don't know what time comes for other independent regulatory bodies and independent bodies in Serbia at all, but I do know that Serbia is on a path where the real values have always won and so will this time, and you are an unforgivable part of all these triumphs on our European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19379	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19380	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will refer to these reports. I'll start with the citizens' protector's report. He, of course, does not contain what happened recently in the Republic Square, so-called More precisely, if I may express myself correctly, where the priests retired both the congregation and the government. It wasn't expected to be found in your report. But it would be expected for your report to find an exhibition at the Centre for Cultural Decontamination, as it is called, in downtown Belgrade, which was held with unprecedented security measures, where for the sake of the rights and freedoms of one, it is said, the sexual minority is being ridiculed by most. So our fundamental rights, both human and civil, are violated, including religious rights, the right to be Christians. In that exhibition, Jesus Christ is portrayed as gay. I don't see that in the report. God forbid Muhammad was cast out such a mockery, I think Salman Ruzdi would be a small child at risk, what would happen in our capital. Fortunately, that didn't happen. I am proud that no one in Serbia can think of the mockery of any religious leader, or any god, of any religion. I read your statement somewhere that the majority group, the majority people, and most likely the majority religion, can't be an offended group and that when someone targets them, it's not hate language. I can't agree with that. I am deeply dissatisfied that your report did not mention it. For me, as a believer, and most likely for all Christians, it was an outrageous insult. So, at a time when homosexuals protect themselves in all ways, I'm not defending you, so I guess we have the right to have someone, at least in part, protect us from making fun of us as citizens. Or have we become citizens of the second order, and they have become some noble knights, as far as I can see, on human and civil rights? They're untouchable. They're not allowed to do anything. They've got their own clubs, they're doing the scavenger exhibits. God forbid we insult them in such a way or anyone else! Then we would be the subject of enormous attention not only to the Protector of the Citizens, but, I believe, many law enforcement bodies, whether they are right or not. What about the property rights, the work? What about citizens' physical and property security? I don't see anyone in this report doing that much. I'll start with a personal example. A group of individuals from Shida in the municipality of Pećinci usurped 200 hectares of state land. The state didn't defend it. But the state has betrayed my wife's company 24 acres, which a group of hiduks have usurped. She leased it on the company, a group of hiduks came from Shida, usurped it, stole the wheat worth 300,000 dinars, and then blocked all the machinery. Here are the photos. Six days, harvest time. Lysing for these machines is 14,000 euros. The harvest lasts ten days. The half-year war is 14,000 euros. Blocking someone's machines, preventing freedom of movement, obstructing property, and all this isn't about protecting human and civil rights? That gang, those hiduke, protect, believe it or not, the police, the chief of police, the neighbor of those hiduks. These hiduks have 54 trespassing charges, but you know, all cases are conducted by Judge Nevenka Smajić's wife, therefore, the neighbour. There are 30 hearings, no one to judge, no neighbors to judge. All criminal charges are written by Deputy Prosecutor Zoran Pejic, who I don't know where he fell from, says he's registered by a certain party, I won't mention her. Furthermore, when you seek a provisional measure of the judge's name, I'll find his name, the interim measure, that case to the judge who's on vacation. I'm asking you on my case - where are my wife's civil rights? The prosecutor qualified the act when her property was compromised as self-government. You're a lawyer, when it comes to the assets of the firm, that crime cannot exist and she is recommended to be prosecuted, the deputy prosecutor, to pursue it in private service. Where are her rights? It's being prosecuted on official duty because it's the company's property. The property of the company is compromised. I've still got a name, and I think Mrs. President of the Court's last name is Korica and her name is Zorica. So, the subject of a temporary measure gave way to a judge who is on vacation. According to the Rules of Procedure, the court should be his deputy, however, she asks to be determined and some requirements to be rewritten, so, behold, she may do something. I know what this is about. It's an organized criminal group, remains I don't know whose regime, many regimes, not just of this three plus three percent plus, three percent plus, remains of many regimes. It's a criminal group that shuts down all the crimes in Sreme that I'm talking about. I've shown many photographs, the property of many officials, etc., it's this criminal group. It is the duty of the Citizens' Protector to protect the citizens, inform the Prosecutor of organized crime and to arrest both judges and prosecutors and police officers. That'll show you're the Protector of the Citizens. Otherwise, it's not gonna happen. If I cannot protect my rights, with what to go before the citizens and say – you know what we as a Assembly, as MPs who have chosen the Protector of the Citizens, the Protector, we will protect their rights. So when we can't protect our own, how are we going to protect the right of ordinary citizens? I'm telling you on my case, everything is verifiable. So, we don't need any immunity, if I lied to anything, I'm willing to plead guilty. Everything I've claimed so far has been confirmed in practice as true, even for those warehouses, where I said they keep the fog, that they pay for keeping the fog, etc. After seven, eight months of my persistent insistence, at last one real control has yielded fruit. You know, how damaged the peasants are. Do you know what happened to the aflatoxin affair, do you know that the price is because a false aflatoxin of corn that didn't exist. Did you know the price fell by one-third? Did you know that the state lost 100m euros because of this lower export price? This turned to the rights of these ordinary peasants and agricultural workers because some in the province gave themselves the right to declare aflatoxin on corn that did not exist. Then they wanted, there are MPs who know who they were, then they wanted to, they filed a request to destroy allegedly aflatic corn that didn't exist. The aflatoxin corn in the stock reserves was paid by citizens, those who do not have to eat for the state to have strategic security from military and economic pressures and elemental disasters. What about their rights to spend their money like that? Let's move on, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I won't mention it, or mention it, but I don't want what the media was bringing. She says she dumped a Roma girl from work. It solves it in that institution of yours, whether it protects equality or not. That's what the media does. For the renovation of office 166,000 euros. It writes 600 euros for, says 650 euros per square. For that money, I'll make the whole building. Just give me the land. I don't want to do that. You're saying it's made-up affairs. Let's trust you. Then I'll do something else. The report says page 12, I don't know if it's true, but I'm going to quote -- that because of this media stunt, you've been compromised and your personal security has been compromised. As I understand it, you filed a criminal report with one of your assistants because apparently he was the generator of someone you didn't hire, etc. That criminal report was dismissed, but your report, even though you knew it, contained on page 12 of that qualification, that you were threatened, etc. Your report also includes a study visit to Australia, page 123, at the invitation of the Australian Embassy for the participation of an organisation called the UNDP. They were reportedly costing but the report did not say, in 2011, or in 2012, that you transferred that UNDP organization from Texas in 2011. There's no such thing in the 2011 report. That in 2012, this report, you transferred $60,000 to that same organization. That's not in the report either. Those $170,000 payments can't be checked in Texas any more, neither can any of our budgets, nor any other inspection go to see what's imposing these funds, it's not verifiable. The report said that you were on your way on February 4th to February 15th, in Sydney, Australia. I think the protection of Aboriginals or Aboriginals was the topic you were working on there. We're famous for the Aboriginals. The project you were working on there that you were supposed to be involved in the 5th report is not true. You didn't travel there the 4th time it said you travelled through Vienna and Bangkok on January 30th to Taiwan for five days. Taiwan is not known for the Aboriginals, it is known for its massages and to dare say there is no knowledge of what is male and what is female. The delegation numbered three members. That's not in the report. You can complain as much as you want in the report, there's a mention of the route and the stay from February 4th to February 15th for which you've received a $5,000 log. You paid the UNDP $170,000, you made $5,000 there at a time when it's nice to fly to Sydney to the beaches to chase the Aborigines and deal with their rights. Our nation, our workers, our peasants, our unemployed are so happy that we spent $170,000 for that organization in Texas so that we could deal with our trustees in the projects covered by the Aboriginals. That's not what the report says. Furthermore, there are applications against you. In the Anti-Corruption Agency, the application has not been resolved within 60 days. These independent regulatory bodies have become independent centres of power rather than been resolved for 140 days. In that application, you as a trustee, they say you had no right to teach at the university and to work for NGOs. Under the Anti- Discrimination Protection Act, you have no right to perform any other function, Sasha Gaja's head of the law-making group says the trustee cannot perform any other action other than the trustee. It's serious stuff. It may be funny to you, but it's not funny to me. To give $170,000 that aren't in the report, kidnapped from barefoot, from hungry people, from those who look at a food store five times before buying it. Kidnapped by fired workers because they're full of budgets, not full of tycoons. Those consumers who pay the VAT when they call the register, pay VAT and profit tax and all taxes and communal taxes, etc. Everything is paid through that favor. The poor woman pays 95% of the tax, not to lie, and kidnapped by them and transferred there to an organization in Texas that will then invite you to come and protect the Aborigines, while jumping a little bit to Thailand, I don't see any protection of equality, even on the contrary, I see quite the opposite. People skip one meal, choose whether to have breakfast, skip breakfast, lunch and dinner. There are those who send their children to lie down early, that they don't have to feed them, that they don't have to give them dinner. There are people who decided to skip two meals. But to spend this kind of money on Aboriginals, I think that's all inequality. Your salary is 240,000 dinars, you're from the university for various projects, it's been dragged through like this, you get 110, you get money from NGOs, and I don't see any protection of equality. It's a protection against equality. You gave yourself the right to have everything at a time when 99% of the people don't have everything. That might have worked. You can be praised by some others who have not read it carefully because they have not been informed. I don't. It won't work with me. The right to equality is, you know what, when everyone has a job at all, a decent salary, a decent home, a decent education and health care, a dignified age. That doesn't have 95% of the citizens. It's not equal when only those who care for equality are supposed to have the right to equality, and everyone else has no right and everyone has to be quiet. One more thing to tell you, you received 465 complaints there, I read your report, all very carefully, and on this basis you issued 27 opinions, 27 opinions with a recommendation and 117 recommendations, a total of 171 acts, half a day in national inequality, each third was resolved. People don't complain anymore, one and a half days of complaints. So, 465 out of 171 total acts, and for that, 89 million dinars were spent, so much is the budget and 500,000 per act. I was also looking at the pay structure. Your salary fund is 33 million dinars per year for 19 employees. It wasn't me lazy, it was the budget. The average salary in that institution of yours is 144,000 dinars, no contribution. So, the pay fund is 33 million, they write they contribute separately, and when you share there in your reports, it says there's 19, you're supposed to have 60, but you've been hired 19 so far, and that's when you split you get 144,000 dinars a month. So you have a driver's salary. They spit me out for a salary of 75,000 dinars, and all I get is the difference between a cadastrian base and I don't know what, there's no one who didn't spit on us, here's a colleague they know, who doesn't spit on us over television? Why aren't they transferring your sessions? You have a salary of 240,000 dinars, three times bigger than mine, and I can't get money from NGOs, I can't teach at college, I've been suspended by agricultural land, because I'm in conflict of interest, so I'm told, if I have agricultural land. You can't be so much more equal. The Deputy Prime Minister's driver can't have a salary of 25,000 dinars, and he can't keep the head of the vice president, the Prime Minister, and your driver there in those regulatory bodies is 75,000. I'm not asking us to have like you, I'm not asking us to have any more. I think those agencies and those regulatory bodies that are supposed to take care of citizens' rights are so alienated and out of place, we have to do something. What I suggest to you, we will adopt this report, although missing, the report is not you alone as an individual, and since you have hidden this from the Assembly that I have stated, it is a good time for you to resign. Not only are you resigning, there's a criminal record against you, and don't let one of those respected institutions bring you in. I advise you, this isn't a media hack, so why don't you come out for a pay phone and say, "I'm resigning." That's what I ask of you, on behalf of millions of those who have been humiliated, whose equality you should have provided, and you have dealt with the Aboriginals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19381	According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19382	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, president of independent regulatory bodies, I think that the Article 107 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that – the speaker at the session of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think the members of 19 and 23 have been injured. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says -- dignity and free development of personality, human dignity is unimpeached and everyone is obliged to respect and protect it. I suppose that constitution applies to MPs, regardless of immunity. This is how you saw the attack on independent regulatory bodies from the current government and the main governing party of the regime and how they have a relationship with you. This is the tabloidisation of public institutions in this country, here is seriously threatened, not the dignity of this home, the dignity of the Republic of Serbia, with this speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19383	Mr. Risticevic, you have no right to a replica. I'll explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think article 107 has been broken. Rules of Procedure. Mr Risticevic specifically commented on the reports in his own way, all the representatives of all parties commented on the reports in their own way, so I respect the political will of all the MPs. Please, the subject today is that it allows, and of course, we will plead in the day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Employor Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: I would like to make a statement in the voting day. ) The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19384	The Honorable Chairman, you have violated Article 106, this is not a courtroom, my colleague has become a prosecutor, a judge, this is proof of everything we have talked about today. There is a report here on the agenda, so the reports of three independent regulatory bodies, and instead of talking about these reports that indicate a violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, you allowed the speaker to turn into a courtroom and do exactly what we talked about today. So he ruled instead of the court, he accused instead of the prosecutor, and you, considering what we said today, and not only that, but the Rules of Procedure that you're holding in front of you, let go. I think you've broken the Rules of Procedure today, and that's how you violated the Constitution you swore to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19385	I don't mean like you, Mr. Veselinovic. If I did, I'd probably react, but I really don't think I've violated Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. So all MPs today explain in their own way how they saw the reports. And today, in your afternoon presentation, while you were on the stand, you asked the Minister of Education to resign, and it really wasn't about the subject of the agenda. Look at the stenographic notes, as I recall it was today. Here you go, right on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19386	So 105, 106th and 107th, I didn't say the name of Minister Obradovic today. I spoke yesterday about the name of Zarko Obradovic and everything I had said yesterday. Today, when it was debated, there were my colleagues and the people who were supposed to explain their reports today and we were going to say what we thought about them, and in the end there are stenographic notes, I did not mention Zarka Obradović today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19387	Okay, you mentioned it today, maybe while you were asking questions, but today it is safe. As I recall, I'm probably tired. I'm sorry if it's not true. We'll look at the stenographic notes. If you want in the voting day to plead, you want, okay. Mr. Risticevic, you really don't have the right to a replica. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19388	Thank you. I hope I've prepared enough to talk, so I don't see how hard it is for me. You know, Mr. Risticevic, you've been talking about what you've been saying in relation to the work of the Citizens' Protector, and I'm going to answer that, but what you said to your colleague as facts, and while I was looking at the screens and the citizens of Serbia my own face, I can imagine how she was just feeling. I'm saying, you haven't spoken to me, you've spoken to her, I'll tell you a few things. First, you resented me for mentioning something in the Civil Protection Report that I didn't quite understand what it was, therefore, that some priests had retired the congregation and the government. My constitution and the law prescribed a job is to control the authorities. The priests, as far as I know, are not the authorities. In my report, I mention the media, but not because of the media and the tabloids, but because the authorities of the state and the officials within these authorities provide them with what they should not deliver, and I repeat, endangers the independence and authority of the judicial functions, no moment slows down the right of the media, the tabloids, to write whatever they want, until until the state authorities give them what the law forbids them to give them. You resent me for not finding something in my report about an exhibition organized by the Centre for Cultural Decontamination, and NGOs are not the authorities. The Centre for Cultural Decontamination, as far as I know, organized an exhibition. The exhibition is one of the kinds of rights of expression and this right to express itself under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia can be limited in the law of regulated situations, this can be done by the court. So I don't think it was up to me to judge the Centre, or what was the content of the exhibition, or to write about the Centre. I could possibly commend what the Ministry of the Interior had done with the law's prescribed task, as he was ordered. That's two things you resented me for before you moved on to your personal case. Your personal case concerns, as you say, property rights, your wife, in fact, it's not your personal case, but your wife's case, because she's being run by a company, as far as I understand it, and I don't know how many acres and she's been through something you described as, I'm going to translate it into trespassing. You expected me to react to that. Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia has been brought before the Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. The public defender has absolutely no authority in this regard, and even if you filed a complaint, I don't know if he did, you say he did, whether he didn't like or did the work of the court of the Republic of Serbia under Article 138(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not subject to the control of the Citizens' Protectors, which is not the case in Sweden, which I mentioned today, which is not the case in Poland, which is not the case in Finland, but is the case in the Republic of Serbia. I have no constitutional authority to deal with the work of the court. Even if I did, you'd have to talk to me. You haven't spoken to me about things that are not normally in my jurisdiction, but in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in direct television, you took it as a terrible evil to an independent state body and as proof that it does not do quality work. I certainly don't do it ideally, but in this case you haven't spoken to me, all of which, even if you had spoken to me, I wouldn't be in charge, so your remark doesn't stand. And you're finally saying, how can we give citizens confidence when we can't help ourselves, how are we going to help them? As the Protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is up to me to help first those who need help most. Even if you had spoken to me, and all that you had addressed me for is in my jurisdiction, the treatment of your complaint would certainly not be my priority, as it is not the treatment of the complaints of the ambassadors who address me, as it is not the treatment of the ministers who address me, as it is not the treatment of other civil servants and officials who address me. The only criterion I have is the severity of law violations, the availability of legal means, rationality, efficiency per public budget. So I'm not saying that your rights, or your wife's rights, are not violated, but it's not, nor should it be, or could it be an element of the report I'm talking about. As for what you said to your colleague, you only included one sentence, though, an independent regulatory body, and I say once again, the Citizens' Protector is not regulatory, neither is the body. The citizen's protector is Sasa Jankovic today, has a professional service, such as the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, has the General Secretariat of the President of the Republic. So you said that drivers are in independent regulatory bodies, that they have salaries of 70,000 dinars. My driver is employed by the Republic Authority's Joint Service. He has the same salary as all the other drivers. So it's not true what you said. With all the right to criticise, I'm sure there are gaps in this report, but what you've pointed to, it's really not my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19389	Thank you. The word is Dr. Neven Petrusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19390	Thank you. I expected the leader of one party who advocates and protects the rights of peasants, farmers, that today we might mention a case of discrimination regarding the subsidies of farmers, pensioners, that today we are talking about a case of discrimination that is being seen in that a couple of farmers, by the decision that has been made, cannot have two holdings and in other cases of discrimination that have affected persons who are dealing with rights, those categories that you stand for, and of course those are the cases we've dealt with, some of us are still engaged, but I've heard here today what I don't really want to pay attention to, I don't even want to make a statement about it. It's really a series of false things. I don't want to because what you're talking about isn't the subject of a debate today, and I don't want to, because I don't want to contribute to the tabling of this National Assembly myself, and instead of everything else, I want to tell you what we're doing, the way we're doing is legal, transparent, that our work including spending financial resources is something that is subject to the control of the national authorities. What worries me is that here I hear things that have already been brought forth, like truths and half-truths, which have actually been expressed and have been an instrument that I've been blackmailed in my own time and I'm going to stop here. So no one has the right to accuse anyone and no one has the right to judge anyone, that's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19391	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19392	Well, by the amount of applause, it's all clear. So, Mr. Jankovic, I haven't spoken to you and I won't speak to you, ever. If you protect me, that's the end. You're the one who dared to say I wouldn't be the priority. I'm just sitting here just because the SNS dared to look at miracles, put on the 22nd place of a farmer, the only list that did it, so I'm the only farmer in this congregation. If I'm not a priority, I'm just sharing the fate of those I represent here, the villagers have always been the last hole in the play and thank you for showing it clearly, that I, too, with my rights, wouldn't be a priority, and I won't complain to you either. What I said happened with the presence of power, and you need citizens to protect, including my poor wife, to protect her from power. Which is all your ingenuity, I'm not going in any further. As for that exhibition, it was also organized with a strong presence of authorities and I complained that I was a citizen, as a believer, was offended. As far as your colleague is concerned, it's all on paper. So it says in the report that the trip was four. Here you go -- Bankok, voucher as evidence. Should I read all three people? Milovana Batak, Nevena Petrusic, Kosana Becker. Here's the plane tickets. Vienna, Thailand, etc. So, that time that the report said that the 4th had happened, he actually happened 30. What I said. No problem. It's all confidential... (President: Time, Mr. Risticevic) Here is a solution to refer to the official route, which I also confirm. Here are the revenues of NGOs, which also confirms... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19393	Mr. Risticevic, your time is up. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19394	Madam Chairman, I would like to re-advertise the violation of a 107 member who was re-enacted in the meantime, and again concerning the dignity of the National Assembly. Regardless of all your appeals and whatever our beliefs that it is not good for the ruling party, who wants so badly in Europe, to look at independent regulatory bodies in front of the same Europe. This is happening again. The dignity of these people is being violated here. They're not invited to a trial or a hearing. You came here to defend your reports. Unfortunately, now you can see what it's like to us from the DS when we're both tried and judged and organized by a jury by a handful of people at the top of the ruling party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19395	Thank you. I don't think I hurt those members of the Rules of Procedure. If you think I am, you can ask us to make a statement in the voting day. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Yes. ) Okay, in the voting day, we'll get to the bottom of this. People's MP Miljenko Deretta wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19396	Article 106. Rules of Procedure and Rule 19. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which insults the dignity of a person based on evidence that does not exist outside the agenda. What you have allowed at this time in the Assembly may be something that you do not feel as a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a violation of the dignity of the Assembly, but it is a violation of the dignity of a person and an insult to all of us. I happen to be very familiar with the case of the gentleman, i.e. Peasant Rističević. So, I'm familiar with this case and I know how this case is solved and what the conclusions of the institutions involved are. The re-return and screening of the tabloids, in order to make Mrs Petrusic feel bad, is absolutely inadmissible. I know you don't feel you hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm sorry you don't feel it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19397	Mr. Deretta, I'm sorry I'm not as well-versed in that case as you are. Mrs. Petrusic is here, so she can answer anything the MPs say. (Janko Veselinović, from the site: This is not the subject. Whether the subject is or not, I'm really not a tutor here. Everyone exhibits in their own way. Everyone sees the reports the way he thinks and exposes him in the way he thinks he should be exposed. Really, don't mind me, but today I allow the reports to be commented on in the way everyone thinks they should comment. Therefore, if you feel that I am wrong, we can plead in the day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Milanko Deretta, from the city: Yes. ( ) You want to make a statement. Okay. National MP Marijan Risticevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19398	Ladies and gentlemen, Articles 103, 104, 105, 106 and 107. I also had the right to reply, since I was mentioned, but I will only say that at the session of the National Assembly there is no direct address of the MP to another MP, the use of offensive expressions, as well as the presentation of facts and evaluations relating to the private life of others. That attitude shows that there was a direct approach to me. I won't ask you to vote on the Rules of Procedure. My predecessor tried to talk to me. He even tried to use an offensive term – peasant Risticevic. I think he said that in an offensive sense, but I'm not offended and I'm not going to ask you to vote on it. Unlike many, I'm proud of being a peasant. I'm proud of being a worker and working for five years at IMT. I'm proud of being almost grown up and born in the fields. So no one can insult me by saying through the advertising of the Rules of Procedure – the peasant Risticevic said here etc. So, this profession of mine and discrimination based on my profession won't hurt me or move from this place. I'm still saying I didn't lie to you. I'm open to various investigations, so if the gentleman who spoke before me will. I've calculated how much you spend on wages. No one questioned me after that. All they say is that I'm wrong, that it's a tabulation, etc. So, I'm staying open to all the organs to get this data out. So I didn't insult anyone or insult myself because someone called me a peasant. Seljak Risticevic will continue to represent everything citizens deliver to him, everything they inform him of, but on condition that there is appropriate documentation, as is the case. I remain fully responsible for saying that I have not violated any Rules of Procedure, that I have spoken of the Report and what is missing in this Report. I don't think there's a better compliment for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19399	Thank you. People's MP Miljenko Deretta wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19400	Misreading, Article 104. I think he's a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19401	Article 104 is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19402	What member is the wrong interpretation?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19403	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19404	I don't think bad of peasants at all. I just wanted to please the previous speaker who insisted on what it was. He talks about me, talks about the gentleman, and he declares himself a peasant. I absolutely think it's a dignified profession, that it's something that doesn't deserve any judgment. It wasn't persuasive at all, he just wanted to please him in what he insisted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19405	Thank you. Let's get back to the subject. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19406	Mrs. Petrusic, Mr. Jankovic, fellow MPs, I can tell you that I find it very difficult to get back on the subject. I've been a member of parliament for many years. In the 1990s, I was an opposition MP, and I never felt like tonight in parliament, not because of what the MP was saying. An MP in this House can say, it's his right, whatever he thinks. Everyone answers with their own cheeks in front of the public. Tonight I feel humiliated and on my behalf, I apologize to you, Mrs Petrusic, by the conduct of the chairman of parliament. This has never been recorded, that the one who runs the session acts like this. It's very hard for me to go on, but here's a few words, because I was thinking for a while that my colleagues who think it's very important that we talk about these reports that are in front of us tonight. I read them carefully. For me, at least two conclusions can be made. When we look closely at these reports, one conclusion is that lately, at the time these reports are related, we cannot avoid finding that this is a fall in the achievement of economic, social and health rights in Serbia's field of education and culture today. The second conclusion I draw from these reports is that the relationship with social groups at risk of social exclusion, or marginalisation, has not unfortunately improved, has not changed. Discrimination hasn't been reduced, and when it comes to some social groups, I think we're recording in this reporting period that it's increased. This works firsthand because Serbia as a society is getting closer to getting a date for opening Serbia's EU membership negotiations. It would seem really paradoxical that human rights in Serbia are growing more and more threatened, discrimination against certain social groups is the same or is being strengthened, but I say it is only seemingly counter-to-line but in fact it is that today in Serbia as a political majority in this House, as a government, we have those political forces that do not have much of a heart to improve and respect human rights. We witnessed all this a few minutes ago. They simply do not share this value system, and if we look at what this congregation majority or its government has done in the last eight or nine months in this area, in the area of promotion and protection of human rights, we can conclude that the results are very modest. So the focus was on solving the problem of northern Kosovo, the fight against corruption, which unfortunately remained in the shadow of the tabloid, but in all other areas, when it comes to employment, public finances, and to the state of human and civil rights are very thin results. There is no reform and public and social life is ruled by a very bad atmosphere. Tonight we are also witnesses, the atmosphere of lynches and in such an atmosphere always suffers and human rights are first suffered, political, economic, social and cultural. The Commissioner's report found that the largest social distance is present among citizens when it comes to the LGBT population and HIV positive people. The Roma are the most disciplined group in our society and there is still no movement. Then there are poor people and people with disabilities. The problems are here, and I don't see anything moving and repairing in the last few months. It is clear to me that changing citizens' awareness of the rights of minority groups or changing consciousness in terms of understanding the importance, respect and promotion of human rights, that this is one process. However, the process can only be successful if the most important social institutions of parliament and government are aware of their role in the process, and some parties that are part of that ruling majority, which are part of this parliament, voted not only yesterday against some solutions relating to non-discriminatory laws, but also voted against the establishment of institutions such as the Protector of the Rights of Citizens or the Trustee of Equality. So we have a problem, this value system is not a real part of the ruling party's value system in the assembly majority, and this process will therefore be very difficult, slow and there will be many more problems. Finally, if we look at what this Parliament has been doing in the last two or three months, which the laws have been passed, how deaf the majority of the assembly and the government have been to amendments and the objections that we have proposed here, just when it comes to the protection and promotion of human rights. The protecter of citizens' rights mentioned a set of tax laws and we were against the solution to write off the debts of employers for unpaid contributions to PIO. We don't have a solution to what happens to the workers when the retirement time comes. One of the fundamental social rights guaranteed by the Constitution, the law, the European Revised Social Charter, has been violated. You stayed deaf to these grudges. When a set of laws concerning education was passed here, amendments that went in the direction of access to education of Roma children, children with developmental disorders, poor children made more likely, to introduce positive discrimination, were rejected. Our amendment to delete a solution that could delay the schooling of children with developmental disorders was also rejected. You didn't understand that by refusing that amendment you actually voted against inclusion in school. There's a series of solutions you've made here in the last three months. You don't understand what it's all about and it's so thin that the European shirt you're wearing, it cracks all over all the stitches as soon as we face real problems and real issues. However, I hope that as soon as you have changed your concept for a short time, your view of the problems of the north of Kosovo, I also hope that by getting a date you will change your attitude towards the importance of protecting and improving human rights and that you will also be on this side and defending and working independent regulatory bodies and being true fighters for improving human rights in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19407	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19408	Dear President-in-Office, Mr Jankovic, respected Mrs Petrusic, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have reports on the work of the Citizens' Protector and the Trustees of Equality, which are extremely important for our country. Let me say I'm going to talk about the citizens' protector's report. I would like to tell Mr Jankovic immediately that the report that you or your service have made for me is excellent, well written, analytical, systematic with certain recommendations to all those authorities that should implement these recommendations. I really don't have any single objections to the report. I would recommend that this report of yours as the Protector of Citizens be well worked out by all the ministries in the government of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all the local self-government because there is a huge gap in local self-government. I note because of MPs and Serbian citizens that this is a 2012 report covering the former government for eight months and four months of the government. Let me say for clarification, because citizens don't even know what this institution is. The citizens' institution in the Republic of Serbia, according to one colleague, was introduced in 2005 as an independent and independent state institution. So, Mr. Citizen Protector, it's a very young, state, independent and independent body. However, Commissioner Sasa Jankovic, whom I am talking about as a person and his colleagues and associates have gained some confidence, not only of the citizens of Serbia, but also of this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the merits of the MPs and Mr. President of the National Assembly of Mr. Nebojja Stefanovic, who has often forced some legal solutions that you have recommended. To say right now that I belong to those MPs who have read each of your reports and has often looked back at it and proposed those solutions during the year you have proposed – as your primary task, the Citizens' Protector has to control the legality and regularity of the work of the Authority. It is the primary task of the Citizens' Protector in terms of achieving both individual and collective rights of Serbian citizens, to protect and promote human and minority rights and citizens' rights. As you, Mr. Protector, have done in this report very transparently, and what is our reality, then I can conclude that she was not at the best level in 2012. I believe that when we consider the 2013 report, that here in these benches where you are sitting, there will be more members of the government, and that there will be more MPs at this time of night than there are now. In order to achieve its constitutional and legal function, the Citizens' Protector must have the support of the authorities. Did Mr Jankovic, as Protector of the Citizens, have this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, read it in the report, not to give a court on this, not verbal support, but to the authorities to implement its recommendations as we have started working for this year, this Parliament. You have seen several even legal solutions and recommendations in a situation that is extremely complex for us. This is the report, as I said, for 2012. The citizen's protector, he said in his report, acted on 548 cases, of which 152 cases from previous 2011 were to see the complexity of the problem. So he ended up working in 347 cases. The number of complaints received by citizens in 2012 increased by 4% compared to 2011. It may also be some mistakes, statistically, but the senior MPs who said today that the number of cases should not be increased, I don't think so, because the Guardian of Citizens as a state body is independent, therefore, that he is young and that Serbian citizens do not yet know his function and are very difficult to address him and that you will have a certain part of the year, two, three years probably an increased number, and then it is expected that the state authorities will implement your recommendations and that the fall will indeed be. I think it should be a function in general of the Protectors of the Citizens. I must say, Mr. Citizen Protector, that you've scanned a violation of the law by the government's authority in the manner that each government chooses to scan what it has found and what it needs to do. In that portfolio, the largest number of complaints, as you have made, are from various areas. I won't talk about them, because you've done very well. You're going to let me talk about a resort that I belong to as a professor, about enlightenment. In that portfolio, as you said, the number of complaints were filed by students who point to the problems they face after the study was completed. That's right. I must say, the Ministry of Education has also been deafened, as well as educational institutions and directors of working organizations. That's where we got our problems. Why? When they graduate from high schools and colleges, some high school, some colleges, professions they've completed don't recognize the labour market. Why? Because after ten years, the ministry has not made a national qualification of occupation, for reasons unknown to me, which you here point directly and indirectly, etc. Let me say that the complaints at the Ministry of Education are, too, that it violates regulations when deciding on requests for textbooks. As the Committee of the National Assembly for Education and Science, we met with one such case, and we want it never to come on the agenda, or certain services to do the job properly. I note because of Serbian citizens that our first-class children learn two Bucharests, double textbooks. I'm warning you, if you didn't know, and I believe it is as the Guardian of Citizens, to protect our citizens from learning from two barrels. Furthermore, dissatisfaction with the treatment of institutions of education and education. You listed the directors, it's a terrible torture, the director of educational institutions, and in relation to the employees, and also to the employees, and also to the children. What's interesting, dissatisfaction with inspection procedures, is that you're absolutely right. I appeal to the Ministry of Education to finally have the inspection take care of his job. You stated very well in the report, 30 inspections must do the work of control, along with us MPs here at the National Assembly. We are the control body, the MPs, not just me professor, but me as a MP, and the ministers to control and the government. It is the core and essence of the control function of the National Assembly. I do appeal, when it comes to the Ministry of Education, to pay a little attention to the accreditation committee. We have terrible problems here. I have to question the corruption that the MPs here today talked about very much. Why? Because accreditation is done in secret. Recessants are secret. I have a right to doubt it. Why should I keep it a secret? Why don't you come to college in public and check out, see how much space there is, libraries, books in the library, etc.? That's what we need to get in line. What am I shocked by? I'm shocked by the report that you're doing very well on 129th page, I'll read it, I apologize to the MPs and citizens, but I'll only read part of it: "Data obtained from the control process, when the textbooks are at issue, give enough grounds to conclude that the exercise of citizens' rights before the Ministry of Education and Educational Inspection is difficult." Imagine this grade. To make things worse, the process also insists that compliance with the law of the prescribed obligations and co-operation of the Ministry of Education with the Citizens' Protector is not at an appropriate level. Dear People's MPs, here's our part here. Why didn't we talk about it today? It's not one ministry, it's all ministries. I don't want to talk about social work and the Ministry of Labour, where there are the most complaints to the Citizens' Protector, along with many ministries. It's our control function. I ask the opposition to look back, and position, etc. In that sense, we must give terrible support to the Protector to endure to the end, no matter who it is. I, too, have the right to put myself under the bat when I speak here, whether I am telling the truth, and that means MPs, or even the services we choose, and the Commissioner for Equality, when he submits the report. That would mean, imagine, the minister, not the minister what he was doing, with respect for the actual exact information. While we are on this, if what Mr. Marijan Risticevic says is true for the Commissioner for Equality Mrs. Petrusic, I will not say whether or not he is, but I have seen when it comes to the stock reserve and theft, that it was true, 150,000 wagons were stolen from the stock reserves, as you heard, etc., as a locomotive from Niksic to Belgrade. She looked after herself and paid for the fog. So, I'm not prejudicing anything, but in that sense, we have the right, simply, to have state authorities and prosecutors and other bodies check whether it's true or not. Allow me, Mr. Protector, to read another sentence of yours. It is noteworthy that following a recommendation addressed by the Ministry to accept and implement, the Citizens' Protector received several new complaints concerning the same type of illegality in the work of that body of administration, etc. So, the Guardian of Citizens doesn't have a commanding function, but we can push things like MPs. In the end, five sentences about the corruption that was being talked about here today, to which the Guardian of Citizens paid a lot of attention. I am truly sorry that today's MPs have no longer supported the fight against corruption, as if it were a thing of the tabloid. No, sirs of the People's Parliament. So she's destroying Serbian society. I want to hear me from the position and you from the opposition to condemn it and give support to the state authorities to do their job. We won't judge. So, it destroys our country, so the fight against corruption is the first task not only of the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, but of the entire government, of every minister of character, of every state official, of every professor, of every health worker, of every citizen of Serbia, and of us MPs in the National Assembly. I don't want to talk like colleagues from the opposition - that I'm attacking the current government. Some things are really made up, which is what the predecessors have responded to. But here I have 50 tax-related things that even three former ministers have been arrested for. But the data I'm presenting, you know that well, gentlemen MPs, is not from the tabloids, but from the DRI data. Among other things, for 750,000 euros for the tabloids, Mr. Dulic, who is now in prison. Not to talk about Sasha Dragin, about Bubal, etc. So, all this stuff I'm saying, I'm talking from the DRI report. Imagine 750 thousand euros for billboards, one just 23 thousand euros, at a time when bread is gone? When these do so, ministers, they should be called in, and we will call out, whatever minister it is. It's our role, not the tabloids, but the state institutions. Imagine the director of rail traffic – 106 000 for lunches in a year, report DRI. It's a shame. (DS emissaries earn – Which party is it from? Do you have any problems? Which party? I was informed he was from the DS and now he's gone to someone else. If I'm lying, I apologize, I'm so informed. While you're throwing, and the chairman isn't warning you, I'm surprised you didn't condemn the fight against corruption today. Give support to the state authorities. It destroys the country's economic, political and state tissue. Don't be angry, but the previous government has economically destroyed the state of Serbia, the future of our children. And while you're calling me, gentlemen of the opposition, if you had stayed in power, the roots would have destroyed ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19409	Thank you. The word is Sasa Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19410	I thank Mr. Atlagic. The numbers are so likely that, reading the statistics, they thought I made a mistake, so you cut it 10 times. In fact, work was completed not by 390 but by 3,957 complaints in one year. In 714 cases, the groundwork of the complaint was established plus 375 other cases in which the authority did not take the proceedings as guilty. I will present one piece of information that I believe is important for both you and the citizens of Serbia, which is positive. Since the Ombudsman is a body that has the right to legislative initiatives and the right to propose regulations, in 2012, 12 legislative initiatives by the Protectors of Citizens were adopted and only one in 2011. It is an indication that both the National Assembly and other organs, whenever they want, will and can, respect what we do. 4,063 acts were sent to public authorities only last year. Another interesting data – 150 control and preventive visits to the authorities were done, therefore, 150 times my associates, which is more common than any other day, were on the ground, in institutions, in prisons, in social work centres, in schools, in ministries, in secretariats, in inspections, taking statements from other civil servants, considering documents, taking statements from citizens, etc. So, once again, based on the control process and all that, we've brought reports, not on newspaper headlines. It is a complex and procedurally arranged procedure, in which a failure is established. Thank you for bringing up the education. I must say, and I pointed out this two years ago, that of all the state authorities and organisations of co-operation with the Ministry of Education, when I say co-operation, I am too diplomatically expressing myself because the authorities of the administration have a legal obligation to give the Ombudsman all the information, all the documents, to allow access to all the premises, therefore, the enforcement of that legal obligation by all the authorities is the most difficult thing to do in the Ministry of Education and in the education sector at all. In education, there is generally one understanding by which education is excluded from the general legal regime. My first control procedures concerning some educational institutions began by making sure that people appointed to the state authorities in the education sector did not comply with the general administrative procedure, that they were not subject to deadlines. The example you cited is very picturesque. In the Republic of Serbia, textbook reviews are written by people we don't know who they are, who nobody knows. The fact that they are not in conflict of interest is determined by writing for themselves that they are not in conflict of interest. Contracts with them paid by taxpayers' money are secret, no one can see who these people are. To my question and the finding that I was shocked by such an attitude, and on which basis, on which legal act it happens, the answer was – if these people knew they were going to know who they were, they would not agree to do so. Whoever writes what's right, doesn't have to have a problem and stand behind what he writes. I have to say, I've handled my actions against the universities. Don't forget, universities and universities have public powers, and in that sense they are authorities. There is still often a sentence I have already mentioned – we are not subject to deadlines. You know, when someone reports a doctoral dissertation and the commission needs to consider his dissertation, it can take a few years, depending on someone's will. We are trying to break what should not be the subject of the debate at all - that deadlines are in force, that the law applies, that the general principles of administrative procedure apply, that justice, the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. It's not the short term I'm talking about, but, uh, the Ministry of Education, and it's explicitly and written, most of the time untimely, after the deadline and after a series of emergencyes, it delivers what should be delivered on time and complaints often point to the same problem, regardless of what is already being considered. I hope that, with the support of the National Assembly in education, not only on the quality of education, which is the essence of this portfolio, but also on the quality of education, someone mentioned it, and the trustee and I also stressed the need to pay more attention to citizens' rights in this process. Our rights are the most valuable thing we have. Our citizens do not know enough what their rights are, what are obligations, what are the rights and powers of the state. We expect that there will also be someone to deal with it, therefore we often come into trouble, and on the quality of the educational process, but also on the arrangements of the procedures that apply to education, on the deadlines that apply to education, on the position that there is time and on the matter of education being autonomous in terms of just deciding what, and how much, that there will be more important changes, I hope and say once again, through the cooperation of all state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19411	Thank you. National MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19412	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mrs. Petrusic, Mr. Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I just have to express my satisfaction with the fact that today we are talking about your reports, not because of the content, which certainly does not give optimism, but because of the fact that for years we have been creating a practice of strengthening independent institutions, although at first we did not have support for such a thing. The Democratic Party will always provide you with support because of the importance of the work you do, because of the importance of what you do for every citizen and citizen of this country. Why is your job crucial to each and every one of us's lives? Because the human rights situation reflects respect for values in a society. Because it's a reflection of the power of the institution and, in fact, somewhere clears the atmosphere in one society. That is why the topics we are discussing today are of paramount importance. I don't know what's really more important in Serbia today than today's agenda. I also have to express my protest over the way ton and content this session looked like days. I think the empty benches of the largest party, which today makes the current government of Serbia, are the best evidence and the clearest picture of how important this topic is for them and how much they essentially understand, support and divide. A large number of basic human rights are deeply endangered. During the previous discussion, my colleagues drew attention to that. Most of the disastrously difficult economic situation that is getting worse every day, and the formalisation of this deterioration will occur on Monday when budget rebalancing, which is the clearest example of human rights violations leading to an insufferable measure, leads them to the extent that the right to dignity and the right to life are at stake. Today in this country, there is no money for pregnant women, no money for maternity care, no money for treating children abroad. There is no money for cultural manifestations that are a matter of value, not a question of cheap marketing and superficiality. These are questions that affect the fundamental human rights of each of us. So a blow to dignity and existence is a blow to human rights. The senseless projects he has money for are offensive and they are a blow to intelligence, from gondola and cableways, from digging up channels, to introducing electronic health books, from 20m euros at a time when hospitals have no basic and elemental means of living, when there is no money for our citizens to be treated. On this occasion, I would like to commend and welcome the initiative of Mr Jankovic, who, as far as I am aware, through these modern technologies today had talks with the representatives of the Fund, to try to find ways to avoid today's electronic health books at the moment when the basic things in our hospitals are not being introduced. So, on all these pointless projects, during the previous months, especially we from the DS pointed out, and I think that on Monday, when the budget rebalance is on the agenda, this situation will be completely exposed. We live today in an atmosphere where human rights violations are relativized. In which every discrimination does not come to an answer, in which society is silent, and which is a much more dangerous state does not react. The last absolutely incredible affair over the final exam is, among other things, discrimination on the basis of money, which as well as on many other affairs and issues in this society, neither the minister nor the government answered, they remain silent. In that silence, offering, noise of thoughtlessness, trying to hide and hide responsibility. Serbia, which is progressing towards the EU, cannot be a country where there is no state reaction to the most direct threat to human rights. I'll remind you that this is the country where the state kept quiet when the lists of unspeakable, traitorous cultural heirs, prominent individuals, NGOs and media were made. The state was silent about the question and the state and today there is no answer to the question of the citizens of Serbia - what kind of milk do we drink? What's the aflatoxin level? State shut up. While, on the other hand, in very strange ways from the billboard and from the national frequencies of television, they tell us strange commercials that milk is actually fine and that it's all good. The state is silent about a small graduation accused by a printery worker. So there's no responsibility or value anywhere. A blow to the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, is a blow to institutions, and that's a fact that you know very well. I'll remind you that this government has begun its mandate just by impact and violation of independent institutions. I'll remind you of the disgraceful NBS Act, the governor's shift. After that, an unmistakable blow and a shift from the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I'm going to remind you of the continuing impact on the representatives of independent institutions. The director of the Anti-Corruption Agency was appointed, after a media campaign, and Mrs. Petrusic, the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, was exposed to a monthly media hajjjjj which produced or was fueled by colleagues, unfortunately, who witnessed or had exactly the same allegations today. Tabloidisation, criminalization through certain media is our reality. When we're talking about tabloidisation today, we're not talking about the diversity of taste, we're talking about the rule of law and human rights. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a society where there is no respect for the assumption of innocence. Which we absolutely don't know who's guilty of, what, and who's responsible for, because media attacks have already been ruled. Tabloidisation of the media every day leads this country into one sense and leads to an absolutely inadmissible relativisation of the rule of law. The opposition leaders are almost daily exposed to the worst kind of media persecution in which neither the worst insults nor disqualifications can have consequences for human safety. So, tabloid attacks function according to a pattern that is clear to all people in Serbia today. Some tabloids announce an arrest, the arrest takes place in the time they announced. Afterwards, information from investigations and detentions shall be on the front pages of these media and such practice shall not cease. Such practice is not interrupted. On repeated issues, especially DS, how it is possible that information from investigation and detention ends on the front pages of certain tabloid media, the answer has never come, nor has such inadmissible practice ever ceased. Today we live in a country where, after every argument of criticism from the authorities, and especially the biggest parties in the government, you are exposed to incredible media attacks, and you almost certainly have a prescription for which you will be on the cover of a particular tabloid the next day. So values and respect for human rights are not some lesson to be learned. They are not just a task on our European path to the EU. If we don't understand that, our path to the EU will be inadmissible debt. Today, from colleagues Risticevic, unfortunately, we have had confirmation of all of this that we are talking about today, which is that as long as values and human rights are subject to interpretations and authorities and oppositions, as long as they are not the fruit of the sincere belief of each of us, as long as in any way they question human rights, we do not have any chance as a society to progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19413	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19414	May I ask how much time there is to discuss the remaining DS? (President: the Democratic Party has 23 minutes left. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the regulatory bodies, Mrs Petrusic, Mr Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have had the opportunity to see on your own case what the attack on the last base and defender of democracy looks like on independent regulatory bodies. Don't be surprised that this attack comes from the largest ruling coalition of this regime, because these are the same people who have been energetically against the formation of independent regulatory bodies. I can now read to you what kind of ugly epithets have honored you on the day that we voted on the formation of a trustee's office of public importance, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Citizens' Protector, but I think that would give this session some different meaning. Enough about this policy and these people is saying what the leaders of the ruling coalition have just said to you. He's talking enough about the empty benches of the biggest ruling party. Enough about their relationship to independent regulatory bodies is the fact that yesterday they didn't want to come forward to give the quorum because they don't care about you. Moreover, they are told by the fact that in the day when representatives of independent regulatory bodies come to parliament, their MPs face journalists in this building, in the temple of democracy they face an independent profession of journalists, those people who need to have insight into the course and the results of the elections, to cultivate independent-research journalism, and only because they do not agree to tabloid awareness and tabloid journalism. Because of such and such a relationship between the ruling coalition, gathered around the SNS, we have nothing left to do but watch that the current government cannot agree when Vidovdan will be, whether it will be the day after tomorrow, whether in September, whether in October, whether it will be January 14th. This session is not only seen by Serbian citizens, this is seen by OSCE representatives, the EU, and is taken into account how anyone treats independent regulatory bodies. As a result, the ruling coalition does not follow a pat on the shoulder on its way to the EU, followed by a pat on the cheeks, and that tap will turn into applause. These cheeks, rather than blushing from shame and shame over such discussions, will be so red, best traffic light, red light on Serbia's path to the EU. That's what he says about them, and I, unfortunately, feel a deep dissatisfaction that I attended a rhetoric like this today. I thought when someone took off the badge they'd at least change their rhetoric a little bit. The problem is when a badge breaks through the heart, and it's rich in tongue, then that poison comes out all the time. There is no European suit that can cover it up, there is no mimicry, there is no camel that can say – no, I have now become different when I wear this suit. That consciousness is unchangeable. These are the same people whose minister was the minister of information, during whose time the authorities were killing journalists. And now journalists are fighting because rhetoric remains the same. You, Mr. Jankovic, have given a very good look at the fact that our fight against corruption is exclusively being fought in the tabloids. I have to, and I'm sorry that I didn't do it today at the beginning of my presentation, to express my great regret that with us, unfortunately, he is no longer Professor Vojin Dimitrijevic, a man who was made to fight for human rights and civil freedoms, a man who fought as hard as you were just attacked. Not with us anymore, unfortunately, not Mrs. Verica Baraq. Thank you for mentioning them in your report. Thank you and for noticing the huge deficit because they're no longer with us. But unfortunately, I have to point out that at least I expected those who attacked you so hard that at least they remember their political biography, their past, their origins, who broke them out and that at least in one sentence they say something about Vojislav Seselj, whatever I think of him, and he's 10 years in The Hague. By the day before yesterday, they were wearing badges with his character on the lapel, and today they didn't mention the fact that he's been sitting in The Hague for 10 years without a conviction. You did, and thank you for that, because he is still a Serbian citizen. You know, I'm not surprised they didn't mention it. Didn't the current president of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic, swear allegiance to him in church and the citizens of this country to the Constitution in this country? When he treats him like that, how will he treat this country? As it relates, to go out on a police day parade and say – the top of the police has been working with the drug clan and drug dealers, and next to it is the top of the police. How can you of the SPS be in a coalition with them afterwards? I don't get it. He directly called your party president, Prime Minister and Home Secretary. He says: The top of the police took orders from Dark Saric. Also his co-worker from the Office of the President of the Republic lies and deceives the public because he says -- Boris Tadic never mentioned the Saric clan. Well, Boris Tadic and DS processed Saric, who earned the most money thanks to organized crime that was committed in all the pores of this country the last time you managed this country the way you worked, and she suffered the biggest tragedy in her recent history when in just two years, the authorities sold out everything that was sold out by generations of blood, sweat and suffering from Balkan wars, through World War I to World War II. That mark of shame will stand upon you. The best fight against the Tablodiation of Consciousness, the best fight against all defamation is true. She's the best cure. She's the one that's sobered up and warmed up, who thinks 40% of Zajecar represents no result. So that's how you started last time - big, thunderous, arrogant, ossion. How did it end? The beginning is always the same, and now it's the last time. I don't worry about my end, I'm worried about the end of Serbia, and he's very, very dramaticly uncertain with you. What do I have to tell you? I also have here a report from the Commissioner on information of public importance. Would you like to ask for some information of public importance now? Who was meeting with Mish Banan? What was Mr. Announcer saying? "In seven days I will tell you who met with Vuk Boyovic, Serbia is shaking." Serbia is shaking so much, only the government doesn't fall from that shaking. How are you doing today with Mladjan Dinkic? You say, "Don't dramatize the defeat of Zajecar, accept the men's defeat." What tree do those sacks of fake ballots grow on? Is that what we're gonna find out? Are we going to get an answer at least from some independent regulatory body? We never found out from you what happened to the sacks of ballots that were found somewhere in some polling stations. Let's not talk about a tabloid that says that in Croatia, a co-worker, Bojan Pajtic, was arrested on the highway with 500,000 euros in his pocket. Then we, as DS, address the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia, and he says – no citizen has been arrested in an illegal transfer of money through Croatia in the past year from the Republic of Serbia. You think someone's going to apologize to DS and Dragan Gilas or Bojan Pitiæ? No, there's a dirty job going on, because there's always a boss's dog that's going to go after those who put a target and a target on their foreheads. It's always been, but it's never been that we have television with a national frequency that has "Pink One", "Pink 2", "Pink 3", "Pink Farm", which many lack, "Pink Realites", "Pink Giki Channel", "Pink DS Channel", where the media with national frequencies is used every day exclusively to deal with DS. Of course, it is possible when the minister of former information was the one who was, Mr. "Advancing", and that is possible when you bring Ratko Mitrovica to the head of "News". What can I say about the aflatoxin affair? How many citizens have reported to you as the Commissioner for Public Information and the Citizens' Protector that this government has poisoned with aflatoxin milk? That's terrible. How many citizens will come to you because in this country, one Obradovic was the founder of education and education, and the other was destroyed? The one who founded the education was Dositej Obradovic, and his name is Zarko Obradovic. How many citizens are going to ask you for damages that their children were getting ready to pass their entrance exam and graduation? Now he says - I won't resign. You should not resign, let the people of Serbia see what this government is like and where it leads them. The hypocrisy and attitude towards the Serbian Orthodox Church were the best opportunity for you to see from my colleague who says – when the church is good for them, then they suit them and then they are believers, and when the church criticises them for Kosovo's policy, they attack her with all their mouths and complain that they are welcomed by an empty Gracanica. There you had a reception at the highest level, the Almighty waited for you in Gracanica, no one else. But don't worry about it, because in this country, Serbian citizens still have eyes, there's still a dam for every haughtiness and passion and there are independent regulatory bodies. When you say - open the office in Vranj, you need to open an office in Vranj, to complain to the chief of police in Vranj that he is being attacked by the MP to beat him. But when the press are here in the Assembly, why don't they be chief of the Vranj Police Department? It's perfectly normal, especially if it's an SNS MP. In the end, I must tell you that we in the Assembly are exposed to discrimination. If you criticize the Government, then you get warnings from the Madam Chairman, because it has a remote control in the hands of Alexander Vukic, and whenever something is wrong with his phone, he shuts down that prison suit, he sounds bucagia, and then there's discrimination against the MPs. When we are exposed to discrimination and mobbing, what do Serbian citizens expect in other institutions at their jobs? It's the mirror of Serbia. Your discussion is the best mirror of your European path to Europe, which is why Serbia Vidovdan can wait until January 14th for the Serbian New Year. But as you've moved the amount of aflatoxin to 0.05, so move Vidovdan to January 14th and you'll solve all the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19415	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19416	I'm referring to article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The previous speaker said three things without being on the agenda. First, he keeps mentioning Dr. Vojislav Seselj and some kind of badge. It is very embarrassing and irresponsible to speak of a Hague prisoner whose sentence has not been carried out. This belongs to the domain of political and every culture. Secondly, he mentions the president of the state, Nikolic. It's not on the agenda. For just one sentence, Mr Milivojevic must know that within a year of Tomislav Nikolic's presidency, Serbia has had a greater reputation than the previous 20 years. Third, please, the chairman, is constantly setting foot on our country. You should warn him who fought the war in the '90s. He claims we fought a war. As a man of science, no Western source, no historian claims it, but rather led by the NATO Pact and the West, and I add -- and domestic NATO dusters, including Mr Milivojevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19417	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, did you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19418	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I heard my colleague from the DS, I wondered how far his memory went. It seems to end on October 5th 2000 and begins again on July 27th 2012. What's between the rest doesn't count. Maybe she only remembers the badges. Maybe he was affected by aflatoxin, because that standard of 0.5 milligrams was at a time when he was a child, so it left some consequences. Otherwise, not to most citizens, especially in the United States or Canada, so no one was poisoned. When it comes to Verica Baraq, whom he takes off his hat, I agree, at least in that part. But why didn't you examine the controversial 24 privatisations and corruption in the privatisations she pointed to? The easiest thing to do is blame others. Turn around, what did you leave with Serbia? You say you are afraid for Serbia not to experience its end. We were at the end. If you had accidentally formed a government, you'd have fallen into thin air, we wouldn't have existed anymore. So as much as you owe the state, you've brought up 27% of the unemployed, these are your results, they're not ours. Did you leave not an empty register, but a broken register, but that's why you filled your pockets, which is why we have a story about aflatoxin, to destroy the stock reserves that don't exist, that have been stolen. These are the results of your authority. As far as the media is concerned, as I said, it's a shame that a mayor has his own newspaper, which he founded with a person suspected of misusing his official position, and otherwise, he's president of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19419	Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19420	I admit, maybe we didn't leave the most complete register. It may be empty, but full of cemeteries behind DS policy certainly did not remain and full of refugees, too, did not remain behind DS policy. It was left behind your government last time, and there were so many mutilated, unhappy, crippled, that we didn't have time to talk about the robbery, or to determine the situation of the robbery you did last time. The budget deficit you left Serbia is the largest in Serbia's recent history. The inflation you've produced is the largest in the history of human civilization. There is no bigger record, and do not say that you have nothing to do with it, because you have absolute responsibility for it, because you have knowingly supported this government. Don't accuse us of having an impact on the media. Well, you issue party bulletins and party journals as daily newspapers. It's where you publish the details of the investigation. In them you do a political trick, you calculate with independent institutions and regulatory bodies, so you do little of what you do on the pages of your tabloids and party messages, but you do so in the assembly benches. When that's not appropriate, then you slap newspapers and journalists in the halls of the congregation, when they don't write what you want. You're pulling their reflectors. The president of the National Assembly of Masters Nebojsa Stefanovic must apologize on behalf of the MP who attacked journalist FONE Slobodan Angelkovic today and ask for an apology from that same MP, whom no one here has heard, nor does the Commissioner for Public Information, either. In the end, the way you've calculated yourself with your financials, that's your legitimate right. Maybe they gave you less than you expected, you might want to silence the unfortunate witnesses. (President: Time. ) Here where you are sitting right now was our colleague Verica Radeta, so Natasa Jovanovic and they made it clear who paid you, who funded you and who helped fund the SNS. Don't pass it on to us, that's what you end up with in your desert debate. Don't put that on our backs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19421	Mr. Milivoevich, it's 19 seconds longer than it should be. Mr. Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we didn't calculate with Verica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic, but Miki Rakic was giving money at the "Serbia" motel to attack us. That's what this is about. As for inflation, a writer can read that in February and May inflation was 0% and that it was 9.9% on an annual level, and you left us 12%. As far as freedom of the media is concerned, we haven't changed the rules of the election campaign, but the RRA, which you controlled so she shouldn't accidentally say anything against Gilas or, God forbid, Tadic. As for the newspaper inscriptions, no one can deny that some DS officials, when they came to power, property increased 1,000 times. I mean not only Gilas, but I think of Jesic and others like him. Don't forget that there's investigative journalism, and if they find out what property it was to whom it was before it came into public office, what it is now, they have the right and to write that there are grounds for doubt and thus to help state authorities. As for the badges, and you took yours off, I just don't know who bought it for you and how much money you got to put it on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19423	Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19424	I've never taken down the resistance badge, you can see that after you've come a little closer, you've got that dioptria, try to use that Wolfieva, he looks like he's got some pink. Everything's quiet, calm, beautiful, like your tie. But I would ask you, for the truth, that in this holy house, called Parliament and the temple of democracy and the altar of democracy, you are telling the truth and only the truth. When I mentioned to Mrs. Veric Radet and Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic, I told you – check with them in the desert debate, where you took credit for the presidential campaign, how much it was, whether you returned it, who returned it, and if you have now arrested you for giving less than you expected. Don't put that on our shoulders. A moment ago, I wanted to tell you, it's much easier to accept the burden of self-judgment than to impose a heavy burden on others. It's a lot easier to cut the logs in your eyes than to look for straws, and it's a straw of salvation, in other people's eyes. I think I've made it clear enough what the citizens of Serbia know and think about your policy. You know, amnesia is a wonderful disease. You hear something new every day and nothing hurts. Unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia and I have a memory. I remember both before 5 October and since 5 October 2003. I also remember Tomislav Nikolic who reported that Tito also had problems with his leg before he died, as did Zoran Djindjic. It's probably in the tabloids video or tarot whispered to him or maybe since playing chess with the Legion he knew. That's not what I'm getting into, that's his conscience, that's the cross he said he was carrying with him, so that cross turned into a cross, and for Serbia in the cruiser. Don't open those topics. It'll hurt a lot. The truth is very healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19425	Time. The word is Sasa Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19426	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Today is the day of the year when the annual report by the Citizens' Protectors on the state of human rights and the state of rights of citizens in Serbia is being considered, when a report by the Commissioner on information of public importance and the Trustee on equality is being considered. In our reports, we're talking about people with disabilities, patients, people without a job, disreputed citizens whose administration takes away time, energy, money and dignity. I know and I hear that in this house there's too much politics, that's quite clear to me, but I'm asking you to dedicate this day to these reports, to what it says, and if we can do what we can together to make these citizens' rights better. I'll allow myself to jump out of the agenda, because you guys do it all the time. About who's right and who's wrong, I'm afraid you and I won't judge anyone else after us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19427	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague from the Democratic Party once said why we don't mention Vojislav Seselj. There is one simple reason, and this is one of his orders during 2011 and 2012, which gave the MPs of the then Serbian Radical Party a vote – do not let Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic win my Democratic Party. I'm sorry, but that's how it is, and there's nothing I can do for you. I'm glad my colleague is taking care of our financial situation. We returned all our loans, and as far as the Democratic Party is concerned, I know that no credit has been recovered to the Vojvodine Development Bank, which was raised after the election campaign for election costs, although you knew that you couldn't get that amount of money under the Law on the financing of political activities. You knew how much money you'd get from the Republic Election Commission. Data is just a blank note, there was no publishing statement, there was no mortgage, it seems there is still some 164, 165m euros missing, it is from the Democratic Party of Smalls. You had higher amounts, as in Agrobanka, there were 370, 380m euros, so it seems to me that this same Development Bank has been shut down, and now some fund is being created for the development of the AP Vojvodina, and I think the chairman of the Management Board is Bojan Pajtic, the president of the Regional Government. I don't think you really remember anything that happened before July 27th, 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19429	Thank you. Mr. Milivojevic, if you don't want to listen to me, listen to the citizens' protector's bar, who asked us to return to the agenda theme, so since your presentation caused a replica, I think it's time to break up the line here now and get back to the topic of the agenda. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19430	Just tell me how much time my MP group has left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19431	Excuse me, I just told Mr. Milivojevic before the time of the previous speaker was taken. So you have three minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19432	Thank you. Dear Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, Honorable Protector of Citizens and Representatives of the Public Information Institution, I am very pleased that this topic is on the agenda and that reports on your activities have been submitted in the previous period. When these reports are carefully read, they just reflect the state of our society. It is a picture of society at this time and a picture of all the problems affecting Serbian citizens. The fact is that as many as 20,000 citizens have come to us, it's enough to talk about the problems that are currently occupying our society. What you have stated, and I have carefully recorded the decline of economic, social and cultural rights of citizens, stagnation of respect for the rule of law, the banalization of the fight against corruption, the lack of depoliticalisation, the reduction of media freedom, the leak of sensitive information in the media, the rule of law, the rule of law is in the shadow of political will, the vast list of unexecuted recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors and, of course, ministers who fight corruption, rather than the inspection authorities. You mentioned how many inspection republican institutions should be doing this job. Inspectors unfortunately, as you said, do not have sufficient authority and authority. Ministers need to ensure the independent work of state inspectors. System failures and 22% bug correction. There's no office for quick answers. What I would ask you to do, and I very positively assess your work and condemn this behaviour in the Assembly, if it is facing independent regulatory bodies, which is that one information that is very worrying in Serbia, which is that half of the citizens do not use the Internet. My request is for you to try to get the representatives of your institutions to visit certain municipalities in Serbia, to make sure that local self-governments operate on the spot. I remind you that as much as 15% of local self-government does not have electronic data processing, as far as activities in local self-government are concerned. These are serious problems. Discrimination is at every turn. She looks at both the media and women, both towards the Roma and the gay population, I think it's time to get in the way. Mr Jankovic, you should know, for your appointment and for your election in the Parliament in 2007, only 144 of the 250 MPs voted. I'm glad I was one of those. As for the trustee for information of public importance, the same was the case. After this session, MPs will probably vote for your report. It's a major shift, and it's proof that the Democratic Party was right, and some who took over its programme, i.e. Stolen, her program is unable to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19433	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19434	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Petrusic, Mr. Jankovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know it's too late, I apologize to everyone but qyod era of demonstration. We are at work together and since it is a difficult job, which is to teach society different levels of government, different levels of control of different parts of government and, of course, to find adequate mechanisms that should not serve to bring confusion and abuse. I need to remind all of you, and don't be angry this time, I think I have multiple rights to Mr. Jankovic and to remind you personally. This session is governed by the only possible act, which is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Articles 237 and 240. The National Assembly must be an ally of trustees and protectors. The way this alliance, not the political alliance, but the alliance in finding mechanisms to achieve full function, both the trustees and the Protectors of citizens and the understanding of a society where they can really expect and seek protection is a common job. Only in that sense is the alliance. That's why the first apology, my personal, I know it's late and that many are tired, which yesterday was not a technical prerequisite, also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to unite this debate, because it's nice to see you all who responded to the invitation of the National Assembly president to attend this session. But this is the body for political competitions and, of course, when you leave tomorrow on TV, you will hear that one of the MPs who has decided to read the Rules of Procedure, even if he understands it, say, excuse how it was possible to address, and not about the election and the Guardian of Citizens and Trustees when these members do not foresee this. They have clearly defined how it is possible to fulfil the legal obligation to consider reports of bodies and bodies. It is possible, through what is called the point, to consider the report and the conclusion where the proposal is considered as a committee proposing, and therefore it is decided that the chairman of the committee should be the president of the National Assembly, in order to do so on behalf of all MPs. But on the other hand, there's always a reason for some legal standard. So that it would not happen that in an awkward situation there would be a Guardian of Citizens, either the Trustee or the Trustee to respond to a part of the discussion which is an expression of political struggle, because this is also the legislative body, of course, most of all, but on the other hand and the arena where different political points are exchanged and falsely adopted, and certainly the Protector of the Citizens. No two trustees can and cannot enter these kinds of political disputes. In that sense, once again with a full understanding, I think we personally exchanged yesterday and what happens to that situation when something technically is not adequately organized, this time in the home of the National Assembly, it must not have been the tone we heard at the beginning of today's session. I'm not deliberately quoting words that have been used, nor am I trying to put it as a grudge, but as a suggestion. There's no reason to highly appreciate the management of that fact that you're looking at the Rules of Procedure now. This is first in a chapter called the course of the session and says – the word other than the MPs have representatives of the government and legislators. The Constitution, as you know, has made it possible and I am proud that we have put it to the legislator of the law as well as the Guardian of Citizens and the Trustee of Information. But from the law in the area as it has allowed the governor to also be someone who proposes laws in one area. No right words. To be clear, I'm extremely pleased that the personalities that this National Assembly is I'm not talking about cohabitation here. Nevertheless, the National Assembly has chosen the two of you personally and also the Commissioner who is not present as individuals who are willing to participate in the construction of institutions carefully selecting exactly the ways in which these institutions will become out of respect, and I am very pleased that you have been able today and personally to respond to various objections, doubt or suggestions further explain your personal views, but at the same time I expect you to have a clear awareness of it, you and the MPs as to what is formally possible. Why? Because in the reports, and I will not repeat all the great things that my fellow Members have said about the structure of the report and the accuracy and details of the reports that have been submitted and the conclusions of the committee that are part of what the MPs are going to vote on. All this is about the need to find new ways to clearly distinguish whose role it is, because citizens can exercise their rights or protect their rights only if they can clearly respect who they address. We are already entering political marketing, and today it will happen that someone forgets that you are not the Protector of the People. You're the Guardian of Citizens. Of course, in the discussion whenever it takes a political tone, it will be required of you to protect something that you are not responsible for, to protect something that is not at all in the definition, and especially not in the capacities. When it comes to the trustee of gender equality, when it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, you have shown in the previous period and this is my main praise, because it is visible in the Report, that you are very often able, in addition to limited capacities, limited financial resources, limited or unclear powers in the law, you find ways to allow citizens to see the problem that exists and, as Mrs Travar has said, often multiple violations of a right, while at the same time allowing it to be unfortunately the only efficiency. Citizens have to know and it is not bad when the high tone raises the question, and Mr. Petkovic with a brilliant tone, all the honor, many MPs with a great tone, all the honor, why? Because in that discussion, it becomes clear to everyone what is really possible and what is not possible. Neither the Protector nor the trustee is the Government, but they are certainly not the Assembly. You two and your associates' team, all the congratulations, but I ask you to look at some agencies, what did some other authorities suggest for conclusions, what do they commit to the Assembly, and that's where my grudge is going, because it was also like trying to commit the Assembly to something, and to what do they commit to the government? The conclusions, which are in addition to these three reports we are considering today, have been partially corrected by the Justice Committee. Correct me, MPs, who know more about it, if I am mistaken and the potential dangers of meddling in jurisdiction are removed. On the other hand, you saw, first of all, you Mr. Jankovic to what extent the Assembly is prepared to commit the government to one additional job, how to make a register, how to notify that your work would be more efficient, as you found ways to put the existing network of institutions and that institution of culture, public libraries, into function at no extra cost. At the same time, you will not be angry if I remind you that in no way do you comment on the proposal, the draft budget, or the rebalance of the Budget Law that will come into this assembly, can hardly be the subject of this report. What I support, preparedness and, please, use this alliance to all together, because political positions change, when it comes to MPs, and that is completely understandable, but to make a common number of examples, exact competences, precise obligations and strengthening the efficiency of those who are not as independent as you, above all, different levels, executive authorities, be clear and visible to citizens. I'll thank you again for the work you've been doing so far and for the work you'll be doing. At the same time, I ask that in the spirit of those criticisms, you will allow me, Madam Vice President, only one sentence, because the authorised representative has not used for a long time. You remember that wonderful legend when the shoemaker comes and says, "Well, this picture is not well-painted sandals, the painter hears it, the ancient legend is, and corrects, really as the sandals are bound, the shoemaker comes tomorrow and sees, he's thrilled, because he's an expert, a craftsman, and says, "God, the knees are not the best painted and the dress, and the painter who's been there all the time comes out and says, "He doesn't judge above his shoes." It's a rule that, I suppose, you too stand for, and let's respect it together and thank all those who have listened to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19435	Thank you. Mr Markovic, regarding your discussion, I would like to remind you of the provisions of Article 238(3) and (4) in the work at the meeting of the committee responsible and the meeting of the National Assembly by representatives of an independent state body whose report is being discussed. The National Assembly shall consider a report by an independent state body and a report by the committee responsible with a proposal for a conclusion or recommendation. The word is Sasa Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19436	Thank you very much, Mr. Markovic. As always, your words are full of direct and indirect meanings of which everyone has great value to me. On the subject of participation in the debate, I must say that I have repeatedly stressed the need for the MP of the National Assembly to adapt to the specificities of independent control bodies. You'll admit, it wouldn't be fair or correct if we were already there to listen to comments on our reports all day, and we couldn't say anything about it, to agree. But, of course, you're right, there were situations where maybe I should have kept my mouth shut. I would point out one thing that you mentioned, the need for these hundreds or thousands of cases to be discussed, to be published in a way that preventative effects are much greater. One of the recommendations proposed by one of the committees in charge, as regards the Protector of Citizens, is to put our Public Service in that position. It would be a real time, otherwise it does so in Austria, but it has half an hour of time every week, in the prime time of impact, that in a way that is acceptable for both citizens and public administration authorities, it shows in an interesting and interesting way a certain situation in life that Archives has identified as problematic and thus that educational and preventively much more is done. This I hope the National Assembly will adopt as one of its conclusions, and I only add once more, in addition to the educational and preventive functions we must and I ask you to insist that we establish responsibility for those who, besides being educated and what all prevention is done, still consider them above the law. But thank you again, every word you've said for me is more than acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19437	Thank you. The word is Predrag Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19438	Madam Vice President, of course I was quoting the member you read, there is no need to quote him more times and he clearly says that in the work of the board, the meetings are attended by representatives, and of course in the provisions concerning the way the board works, as well as the provisions concerning the course of the session, it is defined to take words. I do not want to explain this replica differently, just because I have made it clear, and Mr Jankovic has now supported my wish that it is good to hear as much as possible, but it is extremely important that we take care of what the risks are, and above all, what risks the central business is, which in this case you and Mrs Petrusic are doing and by my assessment, you are doing in appropriate ways, and that is what she has given almost unanimous choice, at least you personally, this very National Assembly. Once again, thank you all, I just want to encourage a clear definition, because you know that the greatest number of violations of law rests precisely on the fact that they refer to false jurisdiction or to a false method of citizens, which therefore enters a maze that is almost Kafkian, and the existence of these organs and bodies serves to make it a citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19439	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19440	Thank you very much, don't worry, I won't be long. Dear President, Citizens Protector, Mrs Petrusic, I must first of all point out that I am very sorry that you attended yesterday and today's day, and could therefore notice that, unfortunately, the National Assembly usually after 15 or 18 hours turns into a reality show, it's nothing. At one point, I saw the Guardian of Citizens holding his head, but good. In any case, I think what is today and what we needed more time to devote, these are certainly reports that were on the agenda and what is devastating for all of us sitting here in this legislative body, reports that were first discussed in parliament. I can't help but say that yesterday I was ready to discuss these reports, as I am prepared today. You could have noticed that, because I didn't move off my bench, so to speak, but it's interesting that by those of whom I belong, the opposition parties, I'm qualified as a traitor, because I gave you the quorum because I wanted you to actually say something about your reports, not just keep quiet. Of course, we could hear various qualifications here today. Some of you called you friends today. I won't call you friends, I don't know you, I don't hang out with you, but those same friends should have known yesterday, that they gave a quorum for the political enemy, but they're giving you a quorum for the political friends who were supposed to explain your reports, and then these same friends, conditionally said friends, because we come from the opposition, they qualify me as a traitor, because I actually want to support the Guardian of Citizens and the Trustees for the Protection of Equality, how do I still have the courage to put a card in my bench, and something else, by the way? Of course, in voting day, I won't be long, but I promised everyone, of course, I will support your reports, and I believe that, at that point, and that's the only time you should work, because I think you're the last dam of this society, because if you can't defend yourself against everything that collapses, no one else can, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-26-0.u19441	Thank you. Does the word "proposer representatives" want, perhaps? (No) According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. We're finishing work for the day, and the rest of the work is tomorrow at 10.00 p.m.
