ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27012	Thank you. I'm asking the MUP for information on whether he initiated a case against the people who wrote threatening and offensive graphite on the wall of the Sheikh-Mustafi turbot in downtown Belgrade. Sheeh-Mustafino Turbe is part of the city's cultural heritage and it is the wealth of the city of Belgrade and its citizens. It is a great shame that the entire public will not be watched and kept silent in front of this vandal act. What's written there is the primitiveism of the lowest species. If we want an orderly state, and if we want order, it's every civilized man's duty to condemn such a shameful act, no matter who it's against. Who are these faces that leave threatening and offensive messages to members of another faith in the middle of town? The state must not allow such threats and harsh violation of the rights and freedoms of its citizens, regardless of their faith and nation. I am looking for and expect that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will react sharply to these phenomena, because this is not the first message of this kind sent in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27013	The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Milekić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27014	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. A few days ago, I heard from a miner from the Jasenovac Mines in the Zaguvica municipality. The miner has about 30 years of employment, but a while ago he had an accident at work, and he became a third category disabled. He's 80 percent blind in one eye. He's blind in one eye. He's 100 percent blind in the other. One ear is 80 percent deaf and the other is deaf 100%. Of course, he's still in labor, because numerous malfeasances with fake disabled people have made pension conditions extremely harsh. It's nothing controversial, but the question is, what do you do with cases like this where people with such life-threatening damage are in danger? When I say this, I don't want to dramatize this yet dramatic story, but I have to add to all of this that this unfortunate man has to go about 15 kilometers a day to get out and get back from work. In his situation, with extra headaches and fainting, it can easily be frozen in some garbage or killed by a vehicle. Then who should we ask for responsibility? It is still to be added that he has not received any compensation for his work injury, but his mine has generously increased his salary for the incredible 640 dinars a month. By retireing this man probably just saving a naked life, because about the quality of life of a man who can't read the paper, can't watch TV, can't listen to the radio, can't talk too much. It's more vegetation than life. This frees a place for a young, strong, and overly healthy man to work in such a difficult and responsible place as the mine. I expect from you an answer to how to resolve these human fates, but to really make the solutions human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27015	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27016	Thank you. The agricultural incentive law provides that agricultural producers are entitled to subsidies of 6,000 dinars per hectare. In March of this year, farmers from Negotina submitted a request. Until today, those funds have not been received. I ask the Ministry of Agriculture - when will be the payment of the subsidy of 6,000 dinars per hectare? How does the Ministry of Agriculture plan to develop agriculture if subsidies are a few months late? I'm asking the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance a second question. The fact is that when educational workers retire they have the right to severance under a collective contract. Another June of the month, some educators retired. It's been six months and these educators haven't received any severance. The explanation of the Ministry of Education is that there's no money. Is it possible that the Ministry of Education doesn't have the money to pay for the severances to the educators who retired in June of the month? Their number's not big. I'm asking the Ministry to answer when the severances will be paid to those educators? I'm asking the Department of Industry a third question, but I'm asking the Department of Justice. The chemical product industry in Prahovo was once a huge giant, employing five or six thousand people in a happy time. After the failure of privatisation, when the "chemical product industry" in Prahovo was purchased by the Greek firm "Neokimiki laurentijadis" there was no investment provided for by the contract and the privatisation was terminated, so that the "chemical product industry" in Prahovo is in restructuring, and some of its parts are in bankruptcy. I'm asking the Justice Department a question. In the part of the company "The Chemical Products Industry" in Prahovo, which is part of the "AD Djubriva" from the bankruptcy, the company was sold for about four million euros. The bankruptcy manager deposited these assets at the bank's expense. So far, workers from “AD Djibriva” have not received their unpaid earnings, and “AD Djibriva” has bought “Elixir Group”. I ask the question – when will the workers of the "AD Djibriva" receive the salaries that belong to them? The second issue relates to the holding of the “chemical products industry” in Prahovo, which is in restructuring. The Ministry of Business site has released a personal map of the holding company. For 600 workers, there are judicial verdicts handed over to the National Bank for the payment of about 20 salaries from the previous period. How is it possible for the Ministry of Business and the National Bank to allow the Elixir Group to operate and have traffic, without the judicial verdicts handed over to the National Bank being executed? What's the reason for that? I was really wondering why the local self-government in Negotin, where the SPS, DS and the URS are not asking the same question. At the Ministry of Industry's site, I saw that the board of directors of IHP in the restructuring was the former deputy president of the DS municipality and the current deputy head of the SPS municipality. Why does the local government in Negotin suffer what the Elixir Group is doing with the employees of the Dusts? Who allows the Elixir Group to operate through a new giro account and thus prevents the NBS from paying personal income to workers by judicial judgments? Many workers no longer work in the factory, and they need these funds to survive because they have no other employment. I ask the Ministry of Economy and the NBS – when will the verdicts for those 500 or 600 workers who are at the execution of the NBS be carried out?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27017	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27018	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this question or information I would like to ask or seek today, I would like to refer to the President of the National Assembly and to the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic. What exactly is this about? Why one and the other together? All of us MPs have an obligation to work with the citizens and out of that obligation the fact that I have an MP's office working every day and over 400 people have gone through so far. I don't keep exact records about the number of cases, because people show up multiple times for different things, but what does it matter? The important thing is that, among other things, a few days ago, a lady came into the office who had a problem with refinanced credits, or a problem with banks that were drying for some reason, and I thought it was a problem. Citizens have problems dealing with banks in situations where we are talking about refinanced existing loans. From such a problem, I referred the question to the director, or governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, in order to solve this problem. I also have the number I sent it to. That's October 28th under number 97 in 2013. Of course, I haven't received a written notice in my office yet, but someone from the National Bank of Serbia has dared to call the citizen who complained to me and to tell her, or to be angry at her for complaining to the MP and for pointing to a problem that potentially exists in the handling of banks against citizens. Now I ask the president of the National Assembly and I ask the governor who dared it at the National Bank of Serbia to resent the citizens for complaining to the MPs? Well, who should they complain to? Who needs to be told a complaint, a complaint? What's it for, after all? Now there's a junior official at the National Bank of Serbia who gave himself the right and took the liberty of calling that citizen on the phone and making her angry because she dared to complain to me or any of us fellow MPs here. What kind of way is that? So I'm asking you a question and I'm asking the governor's question how she's gonna solve the problem at her facility, and I don't want any doubt to exist. I believe the governor is doing her job in a safe and responsible manner, but the behaviour of officials and the treatment of citizens is inadmissible in this way. I also have to notice that this is some kind of impact and that the function of the MP, of what we do in our midst, of the offices we organize and run. I have to say that mine works every day, that you can get an answer at any time. Four hundred citizens went through it, and I don't see why any civil servant, a member of the administration, would have a problem with that. I'm asking for a quick answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27019	I am convinced that what you said in this way was not an evil intention of the governor of the National Bank. I'll try to find out the full information. Please surrender to my office, if you have more detailed information, we can react. It is certainly the right of citizens to address the National Assembly. That right no one can take away from them, so it's perfectly normal. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27020	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will ask a question and ask for information from the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Justice, that is, the Court of Commerce, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, the Council for Combating Corruption and the Prime Minister. The reason for asking these questions and asking for an explanation is an e-mail that has arrived in our parliamentary group. As far as I can tell from this vast list of e-mail recipients, he's arrived at all the MPs' groups here. I don't want to go any further to whom everything is sent. So the question is very simple – are these allegations, which we have received, correct? Is it true that Sasa Radulovic, the current economy minister, led from 2007 to today 15 bankruptcy proceedings and that only two of those 15 ended? Is it true that Sasa Radulovic has been compensated all along as a bankruptcy manager for engagement in each of these companies individually? If that's true, how is it possible that his property card is empty, because when you go to the Anti-Corruption Agency, you see that he doesn't have any mobile or immovable property? If it's true that the average compensation is 100,000 dinars per month per bankruptcy manager, and then you see that it's a six-year-old and 15-year-old companies, you get a figure of about 49.5 million dinars. Is it true that the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants has initiated proceedings against Sasa Radulovic on three grounds? Is it true that one procedure has been completed and Sashi Radulovic has been fined 100,000 dinars and public notices for irregularities in the management of the company's bankruptcy "New Highway"? Is it true that according to this, the Commercial Court in Belgrade on 15 December 2011 resolved Radulovic from the position of the firm's bankruptcy manager? Is it true that the reason for the sentence and the fact that Radulovic was in a drastic conflict of interest? Although he was paid as a bankruptcy manager, Radulovic concluded bookkeeping services contracts with his own company, E Market Capital. Therefore, in fact all accounting and accounting services in bankruptcy proceedings were managed by his E Market Capital firm. Is it true that, after his entry into office as Minister of Industry, he transferred ownership of this company to his wife, who continued this business? Is it true that there are two other proceedings against Sasa Radulovic before the disciplinary major agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers and the other due to the concealment of the assets "Delta legal"? Hiding the "Delta Legal" property has made a service to fake investors who have cheated on the purchasers of apartments and thus directly damaged citizens who are asking this company for their money today. Is it true that in these proceedings, Radulovic avoided for six months receiving an invitation to debate before a disciplinary major agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, arguing that he had been on vacation, sick leave and official travels? Is it true he hasn't shown up today in front of this larger one, even though the call was finally served through court? Is it true that the Anti-Corruption Council can't do anything about this? Is it true that Council member Dusan Slepčević is also Sasa Radulovic's lawyer at the same time? Is it true that Council member Miroslav Milenovic was hired by Sasa Radulovic as a consultant at the Ministry of Economy? Is it true that on 11 April 2011, when asked about the bankruptcy king Sasa Radulovic, Jelisaveta Vasilic, a member of the Council, said – by law she can have a firm, but in no case can she hire her for jobs in companies where she is a bankruptcy manager? Is it true that today Sasa Radulovic is also a member of the Association of Banks Managers and that on behalf of these colleagues he has proposed a new draft bankruptcy law, under which future bankruptcy managers associated with the Chamber will license themselves and that this job will no longer work through their agency or through the Ministry of Justice? Finally, since Minister Sasa Radulovic said yesterday that he is not a politician and is telling the truth, the least we can expect him to do is tell us the truth this time. The question to the Prime Minister is did he know all this before Sasa Radulovic proposed to be Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27021	The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27022	Thank you, Mr. President. False elections in Kosovo and Metohija failed on November 3rd. By not going to the illegal elections, the people have put an end to Serbia's devastating policies of destruction. The national will defeated the current government's policy and made it clear that it only recognises the Serbian state's elections. To organise another hundred elections by Albanian separatists, the answer to the authorities will be the same -- a boycott. For the Serbian Parliament to call the elections, the people will go to the polls 100 per cent. Instead of obeying his people and handling the Serbian Constitution and Serbian laws, the government is extremely trampling on the will of the people by pushing him to elections that are directly killing Serbian state institutions in KIM. In this persistent submission to Brussels and to false Kosovo laws, the government in Serbia has lost every measure and sense of its own people and state. The government is not prejudiced by any action, no matter how destructive they are, only if the result is the broken will of the Serb people to participate in Kosovo's surrender. So we ask the government of the Republic of Serbia - who gave the government the mandate to force the Serbian people in Kosovo violently, repressively and brutally to secede from their country of Serbia? What democratic means are necessary, would the people not accept the Brussels Agreement? How can Krstimir Pantic, by the government's order yesterday, sign the decision of the interim body of Kosovo Mitrovica to order all directors of municipal public enterprises, quote: "to be together with their workers and members of their families and to go to polling stations"? The collective vote has never been organised before, and this is the first time the government has ordered workers to go to elections together with their families. Is this really part of the plan to implement the Brussels Agreement, where the Serb Community should represent a working camp in which collective orders apply? Serbia's government should be ashamed that its candidate could think of something like this, let alone issue such an order. The government in Serbia is making a mockery with every move, falling out of error only because it agrees with the Brussels Agreement, which recognises Kosovo's laws, which recognise Kosovo's ministries, Kosovo's false state and ultimately Kosovo's separatist power. What good can the Serbian people expect if they comply with Hashim Thaci and Albanian separatists? He knows Serbia's people well, despite all media propaganda, what awaits him if he gives up his Serbian state. The Serbian people know well that by voting under Kosovo's laws they deny what they have and accepts what they do not have and what they will never have. A community of Serb municipalities can never be the same as the Serbian state institutions, as there is simply no Serbian financing in that community, there are no Serbian laws, there is no Serbian Constitution either, but there is therefore a Kosovo law, the Kosovo Constitution, as planned by Martti Ahtisaari. That's why the people didn't go to fake elections, because they know it's not local elections, it's elections to get out of Serbia. Instead of respecting this very fact and bowing to the people's will, the government goes to worship in Brussels and further instructions on how to master its own people. If Brussels is subject to the Brussels Agreement, if the Kosovo Constitution applies to Pristina, there is nothing more to it than the Serbian authorities being subject to the Serbian constitution and the laws of the Serbian state. If the current government has made a decision to introduce... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Here, I conclude, temporary measures in four municipalities in northern Kosovo, and you, too, the president of the National Assembly should make a decision and call elections in four municipalities in the north of KIM. That way everyone will come out, the Serbian people will come out, they will take all their families, and no one should force them to.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27023	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27024	Mr. President, my question is addressed to the prime minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic and Minister of Health, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as regards the current position of the Institute of Virology, Vaccines and The Torlak Serum. In co-operation with the World Health Organisation, the European Investment Bank, has invested over three million euros in Tolak in recent years, with the expectation that minimal results such as the production of poly vaccines and the production of vaccines against seasonal flu will be achieved. However, despite the so many funds invested, we did not get the production of these vaccines and continue to import these vaccines. What concerns us is that we have no record of whether the government has exercised detailed control over how such large funds have been spent and why the expected result has remained, since we have withdrawn about 50m euros of credit for the emergency reconstruction of 21 hospitals in Serbia. The Tolak Institute is very important for Serbia's market and for the Southeast European market. Investments in the Institute have started significantly since 2005 by modernising the drive and expecting to get results that have fallen behind. Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, in a statement to the media, often emphasises that she cannot deal with investigations, so it further confuses us, since the government has approved significant funds and then, in our opinion, it is perfectly natural for the government to be interested in how these funds are spent and why the expected result has lagged behind. On the other hand, there are speculations in the public that according to the tried recipe, which we have seen in the criminal privatisation process, that it is going to deliberately collapse the Tolak Institute, that some tycoon would buy it for a small amount of money, and I can't say in front of my parliamentary group whether it is true, whether it isn't, but speculations in that sense, in any case exist. Therefore, my specific questions – how have the products for the production of poly vaccines disappeared, or how have they been spent? How were the vaccines used to produce the seasonal flu vaccine, which was not produced? Is there any doubt that there is a systematic, systematic collapse of the Torak Institute to buy it for a small money tycoon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27025	The word has a People's MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27026	Respects and President, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, my question today is addressed to the Minister of Culture and Information, Mr Ivan Tasovac, and it is related to the draft law on public services and its impact on the citizens of Nis, which is the largest city in southern Serbia and as such has the right to demand equality in the field of informing its inhabitants, as foreseen by the Constitution. Namely, the Public Service Bill was not prepared in line with the Media Strategy, which, apart from Belgrade and Novi Sad, envisioned six more regional public services. The amendments proposed that two public services be financed from the budget all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but that this does not guarantee equal availability to information relating to certain cities and regions south of Belgrade. Such a draft law on public services is contrary to the Serbian Constitution. During October, a number of public debates took place in Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Belgrade, while the south of Serbia was bypassed. Some media workers from Nis and Vranja attended these public debates, but there were no representatives of local self-government or MPs, which means the will and need of the rest of Serbia were not heard. You're not entitled to adequate information. The draft public service law provides for RTS to broadcast on at least two TVs and three radio channels. At least two Radio and Vojvodina TV channels and at least three Radio Novi Sad channels were foreseen. South of Belgrade, the draft law does not foresee the existence of regional public services. The projected budget for RTS and RTS is around 65m euros, and estimates are that six regional public services, envisaged by the Strategy but not by the bill, would be sufficient from three to fivem euros. If the draft laws on media public services and electronic media are adopted in the form provided for, according to which public services will be only RTS and RTV, the south of Serbia and Nis will be discriminated against, and the citizens of the national minority in this part of Serbia will be left without information of vital importance. Under the draft law, RTS and RTV will pay all citizens of Serbia through the budget. At the same time, the draft envisions the withdrawal of the state from local media, which means practically discrimination against this part of Serbia. The Nis citizens themselves, 35,000 of them with their signatures, as well as the assembly decision, say that southern Serbia has the right to its own service to report minorities, persons with disabilities, to have shows in sign language for deaf people, shows that are educated and educated. It's not going to work, because there's no spine in the area, no sensationalism, and there's no placement of lies to provoke or hurt someone, and there's no profit. Another fact is very important to pay attention. During the last public debate on the draft Law on Electronic Media, members of the Working Group found that no member of that working group, which was listed in the published solution, actually participated in the draft of this law, indicating the illegality of the process of making media laws, as well as the non-ligimity of decision-making on the final version of the Public Information Act, which will take the view of the relevant ministries and administration in Brussels. Also, the Working Group on Drafts of the Public Information Act and the media met several times during March and April of this year, although the solution to the establishment of the working group expired in February. On the basis of all this question for the culture minister, will we allow the media space south of Belgrade to remain without public service, the possibility of equal information and the availability of information that is one of the most significant factors in the development of the poorest, multinational region, a region with a high percentage of illiterate population? Are we going to degrade this region even more in this way and make it more lagging or are we going to work on its development, descripting, informing what the survival of public service is actually a prerequisite? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27027	The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go. National MP Natasa Vučković has been reported. Registration error. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27028	I'll ask you three questions. I refer the first question to the Ministry of Culture and Information – when will the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be presented with a proposal for a national culture development strategy in Serbia? The deadline for the adoption of the document expired three years ago. During that time, we changed four Culture Ministers and apparently that cultural policy in Serbia depends most on the personal affinities or animosities of ministers, and less than one fundamental concept that should be established by the National Strategy and therefore we have improvisation and so many changes on the cultural public scene of Serbia. About that and the next question. In the previous three years, as information was made available to the public occasionally on the preparation of this document, several experts, working groups, etc. were involved. All of them during that time had certain compensations from the budget, not only were paid to members of working groups, but during the preparation and production of these drafts, the Strategy was spent on other purposes. My question to the Ministry of Culture – how many in the last three years for the purpose of alleged preparations for the development of the National Strategy in Culture spent budgets? My second question is addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. There are four national councils in this area. The three appointed by the Serbian Parliament - Education Council, the Council for adult education and vocational education, the Council for Higher Education and the National Council for Science and Technological Development. The question of the Ministry of Education and Science – what conditions and what is this ministry providing for the work of these national councils and what are the compensations to the members of these national councils? I ask this question because these days we are faced with an attempt by the Ministry of Culture to question the status of the National Council for Culture, to challenge their work and, of course, to bring all this into question on budget costs. Of course I know that all these national councils, which work in the field of education, have good working conditions. That's what the Minister of Education confirmed to me. They also have compensation for their work and I don't mind. But I don't think the state can, according to some national advice, be a mother to other stepmothers, and it seems to me if we get answers to these questions from the Ministry of Education that we're all going to work together to level the position of all national councils. The third question is referred to the Republic Health Insurance Funds and the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. Does the City of Belgrade, however long and in what time period, owe its contributions to independent artists, owe them to these funds? The other day we had to hear from one of my distinguished colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group that hundreds of independent artists have a problem because the City of Belgrade is late with contributions to health and pension insurance, which in 2002 was about to be abolished, etc. Since I know very well that the City of Belgrade is not only late with payments, but rather in 2002 it has settled all debts since 1994, when the then Act on Culture abolished the obligation to pay contributions to an independent artist and I wonder who was then the minister from which party and what parliamentary majority passed such a law. However, without legal basis and without law, the City of Belgrade settled its obligations to independent artists in 2002 and has been paying each year on behalf of new commitments between 80m and 100m dinars per year. If that doesn't matter, then I really don't know how much does it matter? Since this issue from the same parliamentary group and from colleagues from that party often appears in public, I hope that once we receive official answers from these funds there will be no more confusion and misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27029	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since I did not get an answer to the question I asked a dozen days ago to Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, I will repeat it today and expect to get an answer to that question soon. The issue, of course, concerns the situation in the north of Serbia's AP Kosovo and Metohija and everything that happened at the time of the local elections, to which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia among others called on Serbian citizens to come out, when with more than 90% of the votes in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Brussels Agreement supported. So, almost everyone but one marginal political group. I would use the situation to now invite the citizens of Northern Mitrovica to go to the polls on Sunday. I will not call on the people, because although as a national MP, I have the right to call on the people more than the president of the marginal political party, who is otherwise the inspiration of all the violence that has taken place by those who have called for a boycott and prevented the citizens of northern Kosovo Mitrovica from going to the elections, to go to the re-elections on Sunday mass in the re-elections. Why? Because the boycott simply and that invitation to the boycott failed. Whoever said he succeeded and whoever called the people is actually talking nonsense, because if 40,000 Serbs went to the polls, if they chose their representatives in the congregations more than 10 municipalities. Autonomous Kosovo and Metohija provinces have many more than four municipalities in northern Kosovo. Just before we heard a question about where the Assembly and the state are wondering when they will call the elections in four northern Kosovo municipalities? Why not all of Kosovo and Metohija? With the Brussels agreement, Serbia is taking part in the signing on the territory of the entire AP Kosovo and Metohija. 40,000 Serbs or our countrymen have come out and it is therefore a certain formation of a Serb community. Also, I can say that in northern Kosovo Mitrovica if citizens listen to their country, come out mass, they can win already in the first round. Neither is Serbia, not the people of Kosovo and Metohija, nor the citizens of northern Kosovo Mitrovica in the interest of strengthening the situation and making, only in one small part of Kosovo and Metohija the situation such that Albanians will come to power, instead of being the absolute majority of Serbs in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, which can happen. Then there's a danger, so no one from the state now scares these people into losing their jobs. But if an Albanian comes to power and is the mayor of Albania, then these people will be out of a job. All invited citizens of northern Kosovo Mitrovica to go to the elections, the international community, we are calling for Resolution 1244. It is true that it also called on the EU, but also urged Russia, through the foreign ministry, that all Serbs go to the polls in the second round of December 3rd, as well as to repeat elections in northern Kosovo Mitrovica. They should not listen to those who call for a boycott, and in this boycott they enforce violent methods, violent measures, and who did all that they did, stop the citizens from coming out. I hope this time the state of Serbia has prepared not to. I repeat the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Dacic – whether and when all those who have violently conducted a boycott in northern Mitrovica will be prosecuted and punished for what they have done, so that no one will ever again dare to deal with politics and use violent methods in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27031	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report using their right under Article 287? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? If not, we'll keep working. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Cedomir Protic, Sasa Dujovic and Olgica Batic. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the principle search of the 13th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE RESERVATION OF THE RIGHT TO THE SERVE OF CHILDREN, PROFESSIONALS AND PARENTS You have received a bill submitted by the National MP Nebojsa Stefanović. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of each member of the parliamentary group. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would also remind you, that MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement determine no more than three participants in the debate that have the right to speak, each and every one by five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for the word, and with the order of the MPs for participation in the debate, according to Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the promoter, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a law before you that continues the policy of the National Assembly to protect the particularly sensitive categories of our population. The Constitution itself predicted that children, single parents, mothers, pregnant women and foster mothers were categories that needed protection and we are taking steps further to improve our country's health and social system. Namely, this law allows children, all persons up to the age of 18, all pregnant and maternity, and up to one year after delivery, to be provided with health care, whether they are certified health insurance documents or not. It has essentially happened in the previous period that, of course, because of the difficult social conditions, because of the difficult situation and in the economy, certain contributions have not been paid to workers and that when they come to verify their health books, they cannot be certified and therefore cannot exercise some of their basic rights, such as the right to health care. In order for that not to happen, we have come to a solution in the talks of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The Republic Fund, I thank the Director of the Fund, Mr Babić, who managed to implement this, has found enough resources in the Fund to cover this kind of decision, that is to say, a law that will allow all pregnant women, pregnant women and children to be provided with health insurance regardless of these categories. You've seen, I don't want to state all the legal and constitutional reasons that allow us to do so, but I want to say it's Article 66. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, particularly taking care of this provision, has guaranteed special protection in support of the mother before and after childbirth. I think it's very important that we always keep in mind. So this is just another one of the laws that we passed in the previous period, let's say, that allowed for better quality protection of this category of population. By talking to colleagues in the Health Committee, who are doctors who know some of these segments much better than I do, we have come to the conclusion that it may be necessary in some future period, in particular to codify all regulations from this area into one, perhaps more extensive law, and thus define better quality and health care, but it is a job that is only before the National Assembly. This is not an invitation, in this way, by adopting this law does not mean the upheaval of those employers from responsibility for unsettled contributions. It's something that the tax administration and other state authorities will have to deal with. However, we provide equal legal protection for children, pregnant women and maternity women, and we do not want those who did not commit themselves to this position to bear some sort of responsibility, namely to break the weight of the situation that exists in some companies. We, let me say, and in accordance with the UN conventions and resolutions ratified in this House, where we have effectively committed ourselves, have particularly highlighted the need to provide health care to children, as an unequivocal right to the highest possible degree of health care, have fulfilled this kind of international obligations, not just obligations, but also the duties we feel and that we need to fulfil towards the citizens of our country. So, one more thing I would like to point out, and that is that everything I have seen in the debate at the Health Committee has convinced me that there is an extremely high degree of consensus in this National Assembly. I was proud that all MPs recognized, or should I say most of those present on the Health Committee recognized this as an important thing that we do for our country. So, this is the thing that, of course, we're going to talk about today, but I hope at the end when we're in voting day, we're going to decide on this issue, with the highest possible degree of community, we're going to make this decision and show that Serbia wants to be a country that protects its citizens, which protects sensitive categories of population, and thus our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27033	Do the words of the committees responsible, the Committee on Health and the Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives want? Please report the reports. No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27034	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly as the legislator of this law, I voted in favour of this proposal on the Health Committee. I wasn't the happiest, not because I have something against having children, pregnant women and maternity care treated, but more because of the way we handle these things. But I voted as everyone voted. I was very pleased to attend one session of the Committee, where all the members of the Committee voted in favour of one regulation. That means we're going towards something better. My main objection was why we're proposing the law, why this thing has to or should be regulated by law. I respect the sincere and good intentions of the President of the Assembly and his belief that this is a way that will solve the problem that currently exists. But on the other hand, this tells us the same thing, the fact that we're talking about this law today, tells us that our system isn't working. Because if we're now laying down a regulation like this, that means that the Health Insurance Act and the Health Protection Act, as currently in force, don't work. They do not allow children, pregnant women, and maternity mothers to be treated. It doesn't allow them to access medical facilities at all. My question is, why is that? But in the end, we will come to a common answer, that is, I will offer it to that end. I'd like to call Article 68. A constitution that says that all children, all pregnant women and maternity mothers, and single mothers with children under seven years of age, have the right to health care, in accordance with the law, and if it is possible to comply with the law, then the burden of public income, which means from the budget. Now I'm going to explain to you how it works in life when a pregnant child or a foster child shows up at a health care facility and does not have a certified health book. Then what happens? There are two situations. The first situation is that they are immediately returned home, with the conclusion that they do not have a certified health certificate and therefore do not have a ticket to our health system. Another situation which, believe me, is fortunate to us, but truly fortunate, more often, is that doctors at their own risk, nurses at their own risk, release and allow children, pregnant women and maternity mothers to be treated. That's the kind of humanity we have to respect. Why are they doing this? Why are they letting go? They are released because they are aware of the need to provide health care to children, pregnant women, and maternity mothers. But then what happens next in life? When they provide a service, this service is invoiced to the Republic Health Insurance Fund and I will now explain to you the plastic route of the invoice on that service. When the invoice from any city or municipality in Serbia arrives in Belgrade, there is a mark on it that says a invoice was issued without an approved health book. The Republic Health Insurance Fund's automatic programme cancels such an invoice and returns it to a health care facility where it came from. That's the problem. So the problem is why does such an invoice come back? To be honest, I've had more contact with the Director of the Republic Fund, Mr. Babic, and I really appreciate his good intentions and I see that he's trying to make things right. That's why I thought it might be enough to enable the program to release such invoices. But if you claim that this cannot and that this law is a solution, I respect and will vote for this, as will the Parliament Club Together for Serbia. But I'm still saying that the system isn't working and we need to change it. Another painful thing – who will pay for all this? Since the constitution says it is going towards the burden of public income, it should pay the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, I've been talking about this stuff for the last year and a half and people on the Health and Family Committee are witnesses. I've been asking for a year and a half across the board to enable what is proposed today by this law. But it never occurred to me to propose the law, because I didn't think it necessary. I thought it was enough to allow the system to breathe, to function within our system. At one of the meetings of the Committee of Ministers of Health, she said so, and here in the O.R. when we had one debate, that the Minister of Finance did not allow the budget to pay for the treatment of children, pregnant women and maternity families. Now I'm interested in how can a minister give himself that freedom and permission that the system doesn't work and that the budget, for God's sake, won't pay for the treatment of children? So I ask a perfectly logical question – and who will pay for it now? Indeed, on the other hand, I respect the decision of the Director of the Republic Fund to take on the burden of paying those obligations, but I am telling you that this is not in line with the Constitution. This now leads us to one conclusion that no one here can kill, which is that the system is not working again and that we are trying to find some forced, surrounding solutions to make the system work. I'm asking the President of the Assembly, as legislator of the law, who's stopping? Who won't let the system start working? Who is our obstacle to making some serious obstacles in this society? Again, I am telling you that in the Parliamentary Group together for Serbia, you will have the support for any serious, fundamental and structural reform. I will immediately tell you that Minister Dinkic did not have a bad intention, but that he was aware that when he started paying out of the budget everything that the services came from untrusted health books, or treatment in this way, we are talking about the money that is now worth six billion dinars, and the Republic Fund is only getting 10% from the budget on behalf of those services, which is 600 million dinars. It's showing again that the system isn't working. Who's gonna pay for the treatment? No one pays taxes, no one pays contributions, 65% of farmers are unable to pay their contributions. So, not that they won't, they're in no condition. Entrepreneurs are unable to pay their contributions, members of their families, for which we are passing this law, unable to heal, unable to heal. The system's not working again. I think I've provided enough evidence, and I'm gonna keep a group of MPs for a while to get things straight through the talks later. One more thing, more like a well-intentioned advice. We will vote this law. As far as I'm concerned, everyone will vote for this bill and support it. I repeat, if that is the solution, we will support it. But there is now a part where this law, like all laws so far, should begin to live in reality. I am now reminding you, President of the Assembly, as someone who proposes such a thing, because there is a possibility that after this in the Republic Fund they will try to apply this law by issuing a series of forms, a series of amazing certificates that our citizens, children, pregnant women and maternity women will have to obtain to prove that they can be treated. I don't know if you know, there's a certificate that has a very unusual name in the health care system called the PZD pattern. It's an amazing thing. It's a confirmation for women and children that they can be treated. That PZD pattern - it's a pain in your ass, believe me. It allows children and women employed, so only a code working relationship, whose employers have not paid contributions, to be treated. Which again shows that the system isn't working. What about the children and the women of the farmers? Who's gonna give them a PZD pattern? What about the entrepreneurs? Are they less valuable? For the last year and a half, I've been pointing to these problems. I really want to wake up, now, here, some energy to try and work out what's really important to us in this country. Whether the treatment of all categories of inhabitants is of equal importance to us under the principles of solidarity, or not. Then let's say who wants it and who doesn't want it, who stops it, who doesn't stop it. Once again, the MP group Together for Serbia will support the law, as you claim it is the solution. If the solution is we can't stop it, but I really expect serious and root reforms in the very near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27035	Ten minutes and 50 seconds used by an authorised representative. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27036	I completely agree with you in some respects, and we talked about it in detail. I didn't want to discuss these aspects anymore, we talked about it in detail at the Health Committee session. So we are all aware that for many years there has been no perfect health insurance system in Serbia, health care. There is awareness in this House in this society, that this system must be improved, and we are going towards it. But there's something that we've talked about here and I'm talking about with the Director of the Fund, and on the board that I chair, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which is -- can the children wait for us to solve all this? Some women are pregnant today, they're foster parents today, some children need to get this right for them. If they wait for us to achieve the kind of society they are in Switzerland, I'm afraid they'll wait a long time. That's why it was merely the intention of this law, which is a lex specialis, until we did a more extensive codification of the legislation in the field of health insurance health care, to make this a law that would help solve the matter. So we and Article 4 define that the right is exercised only on the basis of a health insurance document, whether it is certified or not. Our goal, my goal and all the people who supported this, the primary goal was that no child, pregnant or maternity, and I know that doctors, we talked about it with doctors, none of the doctors, normal people ever did it, they didn't bring the kids back and said -- you don't have a certified health book, you can go home. Most of the normal people were reviewing them and doing them, but it became a problem that they essentially violated the law. Then there goes the second, I really don't know so much about these protocols that you talked about, the Fund and tell those programs, but essentially that invoice went to a health care facility that was conducting a review, or a social work center. Now we've found the means to solve the Fund. That's the legal way. We don't put doctors in a situation where they have to do something that's ethically moral and against the law, and we put these people in an equal position. I fully agree with you that we should work more, that we should work together, we should see where the brakes are. There's still a lot of vulnerable social groups out there. We need to solve their problems too. We need to move faster one step at a time. Of course, given the economic strength of the country. That we don't make laws that won't be applicable. This law has provided its financial coverage, so we will have how it can be realized, and if it is not an ideal solution, at this point is a solution that allows the problem to be solved. That's the only reason I suggested it as a lex specialis, and I hope that in this meeting we may have a chance to solve one structural way and some other issues, of course, in agreement with all relevant institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27037	The word has been authorised by Parliament member Vesna Milekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27038	Dear colleagues, we meet here in parliament every day with different bill proposals. About most of them, the positional and opposition sides are slow, and we rarely encounter any legal act that neither party has anything against its adoption. The law we're discussing today is one of those. I truly believe that there is not one person, not only in this room, but across the country who has something against one of these laws. The 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which our country ratified in 1990, highlights the need to provide children with full health care. Our Constitution guarantees constitutional protection to mothers before and after childbirth, but all of this is insufficient unless this law is passed. However, the social democratic arrangement that our society is seeking requires that such special categories be particularly treated, especially when it comes to providing health care. In our current economic situation, which occasionally accepts dramatic tones, especially when it comes to unemployment or even more uncompromising contributions by employers, it further makes the situation more difficult for those whose health security is perhaps the most necessary. Tens of thousands of families do not have a single member who is employed and who can, through his firm, possibly open to children, or to a pregnant wife, a health book. If we add that such families are below the poverty line and that paying treatment costs is completely financially impossible, in this mathematics is the result of a large number of children with chronic diseases, and an even greater number of women with problems with conception and maintenance of pregnancy. So the number of pregnant women who have lost their baby to an infamous record place among all European countries because of the irregular and inadequate procedures during pregnancy. How important it is to talk about that it is necessary for children to have free health insurance is pure pleonasm, especially with us when the newborn baby is a real rarity, when in just a few decades because of the white plague, we are threatened quietly by the dying nation. It's not just the poorest ones. Unfortunately, we consider that only those who have 40 thousand dinar incomes are not poor. But if they have to pay for every doctor's checkup, every vaccination, every intervention, or even the most insignificant cough or eczema drugs, they automatically go below the poverty line. One of my characters from the show where many mothers will be recognized is saying that. It comes autumn, daycare starts, two days in kindergarten, two weeks I've been on duty around homes of health and children's clinics. It is these mothers who will now be able to relax, no longer to be humiliated in front of the scrawny sisters on the counters who at times are ruthlessly cutting off who will pay, who will not, but will be able to lead their children to preventive checks and treatment, regardless of whether they may not be employed or unable to otherwise provide the payment of contributions. There's nothing like a better situation with women who decide to get pregnant. The way to having a child isn't easy for every woman. Many women, especially in recent years, have been inexplicably difficult to maintain their pregnancy. The doctors have not yet discovered the real reasons for this, but the consequences are clear, visible and devastating. Most often women are just because of a messy and bad financial situation, and they decide on the birth of a child, and this becomes an even more difficult environment, and now a normal carrying pregnancy is almost rare. Only those women who have been through this know how much it takes for strength, patience, courage, and money to achieve all this. The strength and courage were somehow found, but the money for checks, for ultrasounds, for medications, different tests and analysis was mostly missing. Often, such pregnancy is fatally interrupted. The third category is maternity care. One equally sensitive group with all its specificities. In addition to regular gynaecological examinations, there are often problems that must be addressed with different medical programmes. It's labs, ultrasound tests, but not rarely a review of psychologists and psychiatrists. A mother with a newborn left to herself without family support, without material security, to address professional services often becomes a danger to herself and to the baby. That's why our country, the country with the oldest population in Europe where every pregnancy is an incident, and every newborn baby is almost a miracle, has to do a lot to convince young couples to decide on the birth of a child, one child, of course, and another child, because only if three in the family birth is growing. Then he has to take care of that pregnant woman to bring a healthy child into the world. She needs to make sure that this same woman recovers better from pregnancy and prepares for a new pregnancy, and each child grows healthy and satisfied. I support this law not only as a SDPS MP whose social well-being is a priority, not as a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network, but as the mother of two girls with whom she has passed all these stages, from the first ultra sound to the foot-and-mouthed noses and tons of antibiotics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27039	Five minutes and 30 seconds used by a time-authorized representative. The word has a folk MP, Neven Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27040	Thank you to the President-in-Office, honourable MPs and MPs, at the very beginning I will point out that in the day of the vote, the JS parliamentary group will certainly support this bill on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women. And I want to say, as an authorised representative for this point, I believe that the aim and intent are obviously both in the title of this bill and that we may, as far as I'm concerned, vote right now, but I will take the opportunity to look back at this proposal from the corner of the JS parliamentary group. In light of the proposal for this law, it is mentioned that, in addition to compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is more accurate with Article 66, which guarantees special support to mother before and after childbirth. This bill also complies with the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which underlines the need to provide special health care to children as an unequivocal right to the highest possible degree of health care and full-scale health insurance. But it is also part of the more comprehensive at least for this area of the Convention on the Protection of Motherhood with which we have coordinated the Labour Act in April this year, and thus raised a series of unresolved issues and problems. Such laws arise when it comes to the circumstances of employees of women and the need to ensure the protection of pregnancy, which is a common obligation for both states and societies. In addition to these above-mentioned EU conventions, more specifically from the European Commission and the Social Affairs Directorate, we have a number of directives that are trying to influence national legislation in order to bring it closer to European legislation. In this particular case, I can safely say that these guidelines lead us to the right path, which proves the bill before us, which I suppose will support all parliamentary groups. The document we are considering today, but also parts of the Labour Act and the Law on Financial Support and the Family with Children, is not only the help of this particular category of population, but can also be practical instruments to repair the demographic pyramid of our society. More precisely, to express myself, an increase in the birth rate, which certainly further interferes with the JS parliamentary group to support this proposal. Unfortunately, when the socially endangered parts of our population are mentioned, they are often referred to by pregnant women, maternity parents, and children. One of the basic reasons for this category's insecure protection has so far been the insecure protection, and we are aware of the fact that women in pregnant and postpartum and of course children are exposed to an increased risk of being ill with it is indeed the same protection they need. We know that due to the current legislation, they do not have the right to medical care and consultation when they do not have certified health books due to outstanding contributions to health insurance. As an editor of society, the state also sends a certain message to the same company by means of measures and regulations. This law achieves that pregnant women, maternity parents and children, regardless of the period of compulsory insurance and whether they have a stamp in the health book are equal when we talk about health care and enable them to receive the necessary treatment. That state, more specifically, now parliament suggests to this society that it is children and mothers that we should care about the most. In order to bring this to life, it is certainly necessary to punish people in medical institutions and the RFZO if legal provisions are not respected, I mean the law we are discussing today, and whose adoption will also mean a significant change in the health care system, I would say to a large extent for the better. Since JS has always been loud not so much about discussing these topics but about achieving the concrete measures that we have brought in order to achieve greater rights for pregnant women, maternity and children. Now, like the parliamentary group, we will be part of the vote in this House that supports this bill. As I have already mentioned, we support this proposal, because we believe it is also a step towards improving the fight to raise birth and we will always support this home any proposals that can contribute to this fight no matter which side it comes from. But I will take the opportunity to mention that when we look at facts and statistical forecasts based on the trend so far in Serbia, in 10 years, half a million people could live less. Therefore, I must say that we are not satisfied with the existing concrete and practical solutions at the level of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the government's strategy to encourage the population, adopted in this House as early as 2008, is not enough to achieve its goal. The measures mentioned in it, resolving the unemployment of married couples with children, the cost of giving birth, their taking over to the state, the possibility of father being away from work for child care, which would be a great support for mothers who have to go back to work. So these measures have not been implemented, perhaps for some reasonable reasons, and perhaps for insufficient hearing about this problem. The reasons are irrelevant now. All this does not prevent this government from bringing in a new, improved, but, more importantly, an enforceable strategy to combat the white plague, or strategy for incentives to restore the population. This strategy would be a star of leadership, and we could make our own directives that would come from the understanding and needs of our people, make simple decisions that suit our mentality and we wouldn't have to wait for the sound of the whistle and make laws at a low start. In creating this plan, we could be inspired by some of the municipalities and cities that have understood the importance of this issue. Examples of this are Belgrade, which allows pregnant women to make full pay on pregnancy leave, not only 65%, which is prescribed by law or Nis, which has set up advice on the most intelligent policy, otherwise these species in our country and implemented a project with the National Employment Service, which is being stimulated by employers through city subsidies to hire women who plan to have offspring or are in the first trimester of their pregnancy, while the employers are obliged to return the woman to work after the maternity leave. Positive examples and inspiration could be found in many other cities and municipalities that separate from their own budget, sums addressed to pregnant women, maternity and children and thus show not only the awareness of the existence of the problem, but the willingness to address the problem of negative birth and resolution. I'll list some of them, they're Loznica, Pogorjevac, Kragujevac, Subotica, Nova Varoš, Zrenjanin, Zaječar, Valjevo, Bor, Kraljeno and of course the leader in this city of Jagodina, which certainly of all cities and municipalities has the most separations for children and pregnant women. I would not list everything that comes true in Jagodina, because in 20 minutes I would not be able to list everything, but I will only mention that several kinds of financial assistance granted to every family that gets a refund in that city, help for unemployed and single mothers, hiring spouses where no one works, help in school materials, all known free excursions that are often characterised by politicians as irrelevant, but the fact that these precisely irrelevant measures have led to schools in that city having to expand their capacities and open new departments for champion students, even in some individual months 2012, a double number of babies were born compared to the same months in the previous year. In order to avoid using time to promote the authorities in Jagodina, the truth of the will of the mentioned and cited examples of cities and measures that are being brought to Kruševec and many other cities, we can conclude that the authorities at the place are increasingly gathering around this problem and that regardless of party membership and political ideology, they are making similar solutions that certainly make these cities stronger and ready to fight the white plague. My conclusion and conclusion of JS is that wherever there is a will, there is a way. On this occasion, I would also like to welcome, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, the willingness of the legislators of this law to work on improving women and children's rights, in this case pregnant women, maternity and children, as shown not only by this bill but also by others aimed at improving their lives, those who care about the state and society most. But I want to repeat and add that we believe that if we were more guided by internal motives and truly listening to the needs of our society, we would never have to wait for the EU and UN demonstration sticks, we would have found, perhaps even more effective and more effective solutions and modality in response to these needs at the right time. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27041	Ten minutes and 33 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative, the parliamentary group. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27042	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, there will hardly be MPs or parliamentary groups in the Assembly today, who will not support this bill, because no one can object to providing full health care for these three categories of population, these three groups in the population. These are minors up to the age of 18, maternity and pregnant women. Unfortunately, though, the need for such a law to be proposed, which will of course be adopted, I am deeply convinced, shows what is wrong with our health care system. I'm not saying that someone did this on purpose with our health care system, but objectively in what situation our health care system is in. As my colleague Ljiljana Lucic has already noted on the Health Committee and the family of the Serbian Parliament, if the Law on Health Protection of Serbia is looked at, meaning from this year on, we have in one part of that law, now I am talking about the second law, this proposal, by four principles of healthcare, we have a Article 19, Article 20 and Article 21. So I'm talking about a valid health care law in the Republic of Serbia. We have the principle of access to health care, the principle of health care justice, and what is most important now is the principle of comprehensive health care. So, Article 21 says health care in the Republic of Serbia is comprehensive. This comprehensive cannot be interpreted differently, but as one promise in the legal form of Serbian citizens, that everyone has the right to health care. This health care law does not restrict this right, but in practice it has shown that we are limited by a series of groups in our society and one of these groups that is particularly affected by these restrictions, these certified health books, i.e. the payment of contributions, are primarily farmers. It is a very large category of inhabitants in this country who are otherwise in a very difficult position for various reasons, and it is, in fact, by what I know, someone might say because this is a law proposed by the President of the Assembly, or to say the assembly law, which is not often but is legitimate and legal. We don't have anyone from the Ministry of Health or from the Fund, but it would be interesting to know whether and to what extent this problem is being solved, because it was, and I know that, while I was in the government, a major problem of farmers' health care, whether they are paying or not to pay contributions, or often I can't, or late, etc. It's often been written off. This law has been chosen by the proposer, President of the Assembly Stefanovic, to select three really endangered categories of inhabitants and no one can dispute that they should have the right to full health care, but on the other hand, I will state my example, from the point of view of my profession, I am particularly interested, in addition to these categories, for example for categories of disabled people. According to one definition of the UN, which applies more or less to each society, it is usually considered that in each society around 10% of the population belong to a category of disability, or belongs to a category of people with disabilities, not to enter into different categorizations, there is not one unique that all types of disability exists, but about every tenth person is some kind of disabled person. Now I could write a bill just like this, not criticising this law, but I could write a proposal that would specifically promise health care, regardless of whether or not the contributions to the disabled in this society are paid, because I am from the point of view of my profession particularly sensitive to them, and some categories of people with disabilities really have huge problems. By definition, they often have to have health care because they cannot function without medical aids, etc. It's a special subject now. So we're opening one topic here that's crucial to our society, one of those key things. From the time of socialism of the previous state, we inherited one right thing. It's the feeling of people and the attitude of state and society, that every member of this society, our society, has the right to health care. That, in my opinion, is one historic achievement that this country achieved 30, 40 and 50 years ago. It's undeniable. It is something that the richest societies offer their citizens and there are countries where it is respected until the end. But that's where the main problems begin. These are societies that are very, very economically developed. If someone wants to make an analogy, probably the chief physician of Barack Obama will be that media-ker and now you see resistance in that society, not getting into that story at all. That's where he's just trying to expand health care to some other categories of American citizens that aren't covered. So it's crucial for every society from the point of view of preserving the health of the nation. In this case, since pregnant women are the reproductive abilities of the nation, which is otherwise in Serbia, as well as in all of Europe, we have raised the question of how health care is being conducted in our country and here we get a very clear answer, precisely because contributions are not being paid, a considerable number of people, health care is not available to them. I ask a question to the public and to all MPs – how are these people treated in the first place? Do we have any answer to that question? Do they not heal at all, do they give money for private treatment? If what we know is happening is that many doctors, when a pregnant woman comes and doesn't have health care or when a minor comes, they close their eyes and actually treat him for free. So, the health care from which the responsibility of their ethics, their professions, that they can't bring anyone back from the threshold who came sick and asked for medical attention, but it's not safe. There's probably a doctor who won't do it, who's afraid of sanctions, especially if that treatment involves using a material asset, etc. So as much as I support this, I will, of course, vote personally, and the parliamentary group, the question is here that we are getting through this law, paradoxically, some real picture of the health care situation in the Republic of Serbia. This law is very short, it has ten members of which the first seven refer to the definitions of these categories of population, but they are interesting three provisions, and they are actually, I want to draw your attention to you, fellow MPs, these are actually sanctions. This law essentially correctly provides for sanctions, these are three groups of sanctions, but centrally, the Health Fund has to run a register of these services, that the institutions are obliged to send you, as I say, people sent, to register and then we have a Article 7 which is the essence of this law. Article 7. - a fine of 300,000 to a million dinars will be fined for the violation of the Republic Fund, if it enables the persons of this law to exercise their right under this law. It's a big change now. It's the first time we've ever had to punish the Bureau if it doesn't provide protection. That means it allows someone to sue from these categories, especially pregnant women and maternity, that they can sue the Department of Health Services if they haven't provided her with a favor not to the doctor and health care service, but to the fund if he hasn't provided that service. I believe this was necessary, but it shows you what the situation in Serbia looks like for, as I would say, how familiar I am with the head of the population to say, how we all express it in euros, something over 200 euros a year is set aside for every citizen, with this very small health care can be provided, while at the same time our citizens as people who have had a relatively good health care system expect good health services. All that goes on, these appeals to treat children abroad, to collect voluntary contributions, to say that our health system is barely being maintained and one stands on its feet. You, Mr. Stefanovic, are as a promoter and a National Assembly who, I say, will believe that this law is passed, we have opened a big topic here, and that is what guarantees our health care system and who is guaranteed by which form of health care? It keeps going when we make laws. We live every time we make laws often in an ideal world, but here we face reality for the first time, and the reality is that one large number of people, I will single out here especially farmers' families, but others and people who work in private companies, who don't pay for that health care fund, that a whole series of people in our society actually don't have that health care, and on that side of the line there's this private practice, it's the same kind of door-to-door, it's the same thing that they're flowering about, and there's something else that our society never talks about, people don't go to doctors at all, people are waiting to pass, they're healing themselves, they're drinking tea. It's not funny at all, it's tragic. We need to get one thing straight in this society for once. No matter what good it is to live in the realm of freedom, we have moved to the realm of necessity and in this realm of necessity will have the Fund, he did it with a list of medications, so it's done with medications, but it's not done in relation to health services, to finally say which health services are guaranteed. This is a law that shows you that these people are guaranteed health care, but I'm telling you that many other categories of population do not have guaranteed health care and that we don't know what percentage of people with disabilities goes to a doctor at all, because there's often no money to pay for it, the Fund doesn't cover it. For the end, the question that's already been raised here is how much is this going to cost? We got the answer, the promoter pointed out it himself in the opening statement, from the Fund got the answer that the funds were found, that means the means to implement this law, which I personally am very pleased with. Once again I appeal, it cannot resolve this law. We are now on a path that leads essentially to the fact that healthcare is effectively guaranteed to the citizens of this country? It would be ideal for some forms of healthcare to be guaranteed to all citizens of this country, to pay, not to pay, to have a health book, not to have a health book. The members of my profession work in health care. I've never worked in health care, and I don't know how a doctor feels when a sick man comes to his door, a man with an injury, and he needs to get him back. Ask him – do you have a health certificate, go back. I am sure and I hope there are many doctors in Serbia, if at all there are, who will do it. But, realistically, you're putting these people in a very difficult position, too, because he needs to provide health services, and nobody's covering it, or the state is currently covering it. We're headed one way to settle what's guaranteed? I would like the Assembly, when the vote passes, to make one call to the Ministry of Health, to finally Serbia, if it has entered the realm of necessity, and it seems we cannot get out, the realm of necessity is the realm of money, how much money do we have for health care in this case at all, to clear out what the priorities of this society are? Not all of them are equal priorities. For example, dental practice has long been privatized and most of our citizens no longer expect, at least most citizens, not to pay for that kind of dental services, but with this other remnant of the health system we didn't do it. Finishing to say, it's not about this law, during the time of the Minister of Law. Tomica Milosavljevic, we had two completely different decisions in his term about the place of private health care in the health care system. Once we had it incompatible, once we had it compatible. He's obviously wandering around a lot. I understand, these are difficult problems, but somehow when we adopt these laws... I purposely read the Health Care Act adopted in this congregation. The changes were adopted this year, to see how we adopted a member who could not be interpreted differently, Article 21, but to be effectively guaranteed to all citizens of Serbia... If you are talking about the principle of comprehensive health care, if that is the principle, you can draw from the principle that everyone has rights, and that is the right member, but to see how often abstract provisions that look like this are adopted, that you need additional legislation to protect certain categories. If we're going to pass these extra laws, then we're actually defining the health care system in a new way. We impose sanctions if health care is not provided, we introduce the principle of performance, operationalized by this provision, principles, that some categories have a practical right, regardless of whether contributions are paid and then we are actually going to a system in which we will clearly know, unfortunately, what in Serbia is only truly guaranteed as health care. So, once again, I'll support it, but I think this bill has opened up one much, much bigger topic, and that's what is the physical state of health care, not the laws. We're a legislative body, but we rarely get full answers, I don't hide it, the Ministry of Health, but it is his job and the Fund, what's the actual state of health care? Once again, it seems to me that this law will help not only the people who work in small private companies, the unemployed who are increasingly, unfortunately, in Serbia, but also the farmers, because this group within our population has the biggest health insurance issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27043	It was used 14 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27044	Mr. President, the legislator, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with something very interesting and what MPs should look at, and this is the last UN report on the perspectives of the population on the planet. They say in the report, by 2015 Eastern Europe and the Balkans will be a place where the population will fall enormously. The decline in the population is expected to be 0.5% annually in Serbia by 2015. It's a huge decline in the population, but what's interesting is that our demographics fully agree with this assessment. When two types of data are crossed, one is Natalie, which is obviously at a very low rate in Serbia, and, on the other hand, the expected migrations, which are also largely present in these areas, because they are due to social, economic, political parameters, then we come to the fact that this forecast is indeed black, but it is also very true. It says, this forecast, our demographics claim that by the end of practically 2053 there will be two million people in Serbia, and that only four million people will live by the end of the century in Serbia. If we look at it now as practically the second decade of this century, we will lose more than three million inhabitants in 80 years. We really need to take care of that. The first reason for this is a negative natural growth and it is very low, especially after the 1990s. By the 1990s, he was about 2.1%, the birth rate was 2.1%, and now he's below 1.6%. It is that natural simple reproduction cannot be satisfied. The other thing is, I said, those migrations. It's a very serious topic to talk about right now. I think it's a topic for another session. I'll talk about it later. The data suggests that 93% of municipalities in Serbia have negative natural growth, i.e. the demographic old population. Why am I saying that? Why do I start, when I'm talking about this law, the bill of this law, this way? First, I would like to warn all of us, who are here in the congregation chosen by the people of this country, to take care of the survival of this people. Secondly, let's pay attention to those birth-stimulating measures that existed so far, but obviously, when we take everything into account, they did not yield results. That's when we come to the subject of this law, which is child health care. First, I'm going to commend the promoter to finally respect the definition of a certain Convention on the Rights of the Child what is it and who is the child? In our laws, unfortunately, we have a different interpretation even of the age of a child. I have to say one more thing, I won't say it for the first time, my previous speakers have said a lot about it, the matter of this law is actually already arranged. It is determined by the Health Insurance Act and in part by the Health Protection Act, but practice shows that the system does not work, that although it is arranged, it cannot actually be realised in practice. According to our laws, the ones we mentioned, I must mention the Constitution in Article 68, which also guarantees a very broad right to health care of these categories. So, child health care up to 18 years old, pregnant and maternity care is guaranteed if they have a certified health book. The problem arises if the book is not certified, and it is not certified because someone third, the employer of this case, does not fulfil his legally prescribed obligation to pay contributions so that these categories can be treated. This means in practice that a family that does not have a certified book, and most often one member of the family is employed, and based on its employment category, they are entitled to the health care of other family members, they, if the third party does not pay those contributions, cannot be treated. It's obviously that these most vulnerable categories, so children, pregnant women and maternity mothers are in a position to absolutely fail to achieve their law and constitution are guaranteed rights. At this point, more than 50,000 workers and their families can't exercise that right. It's a very large army of people, citizens of our country, our fellow citizens. Despite the numerous announcements that we will solve the problem, because we all see that the problem exists, unfortunately, this is the first time we have talked about it openly, and this is the first time that I have had some discussions on the Committee on Health in this way we can talk about this subject on the tide. I have one more thing to say. The failures, although it has been announced, will be regulated by changes to the rules that should solve the issue of these very categories, and that the booklets have not been approved, unfortunately, those errors are not corrected. One part of that vulnerable category remained, therefore, both children and maternity and pregnant women, those who remained practically without contributions paid by employers after that border date on 9 August 2011. So now they can't be treated again. I have to say, we have another category in this rulebook that is very important to define. They're single parents and unemployed. They also have the right to overwrite health books, as well as socially endangered persons. In practice, it doesn't seem like it. I must say that one of the first promises of Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, whether he is about to deal with this topic and that we are about to solve this category, that we are about to give these people the right to be treated. But what happened happened. We've been discussing this for the first time today. All should have been resolved by those certificates that should have been regulated by the Bureau, but apparently those certificates don't seem to work that easily. I mentioned that rule that was passed in November 2012 and that was to regulate this issue, to regulate in fact that if these categories are not able to verify their health book, they get confirmation of it and they're being treated, but that rule made that selection, I can say, and discrimination, because it cut the date on August 9, 2011. Therefore, those employers who did not pay contributions until that date were somewhat pardoned. Third parties, i.e. children, maternity and pregnant women, can therefore receive confirmation that they are being treated, but this category remains, that those employers who have not made contributions since 9 August 2011 to date have now been discriminated against by families, pregnant women and children of those employees of those employers, who cannot now exercise their right. Getting ready for this bill, I've looked at another document. It's the Citizens' Protector's Report last year 2012. When it comes to children's rights to health care, the Trustee found in the control procedure that the Fund violates the rights of the child to health insurance and health care when leaving children without a certified health certificate, because the third party, and I told the employers, did not comply with their legal obligation to pay their contributions. What is most important is what he finds, when the right to health insurance is not realized on another basis, the child is legally established to be health insurance based on the fact that he is a child. We are going back to the Constitution, which is a member of 68th that says very nicely and says very clearly – that if the book is not certified, then, if it cannot go to the employer's burden of treatment, it goes to the burden of the public budget. That's what we need to talk about. So we have arranged this issue by law, but for some reason this issue is not constantly resolved and broken. Let's look at the situation in other countries in the environment. All countries in the environment are talking about children, maternity and pregnant women, these very vulnerable categories and very vulnerable categories, having the right to increased community attention and, above all, the right to health care. That's what we say when we talk about some other countries, so let's also mention countries of high standard: Sweden, Norway and other countries, really very high health care, but it's obvious that in Serbia it doesn't work that way, although we have all the grounds in the law clearly defined. Again, a comment by the Protector of the Citizens, so that children do not exercise health insurance rights as members of the insurance family, regardless of how they are reported. The law fulfils the conditions for the application of an alternative insurance base, which is belonging to a particularly sensitive group, which are children. That is why the recommendation of the Citizens' Protector was also to the Fund to verify health books to children and in cases where the employer did not pay these contributions. Children should by no means be victims of one, let me say, and a very boastful relationship between some third parties. Now it's not clear to me here, when it's all so beautifully written in laws, when you have it started in the verticals of the Constitution, so in these laws, how it's possible that the Fund, the one who has to do the job prescribed by the laws, is not doing it, but we're coming across some amazing interpretations when it comes to some basic things relating to health care and health insurance. The fund has recently interpreted the need to build a charity fund to treat children. It can't be out of the system of anything. Everything must have been beautifully written in the system. Then we have a scenic interpretation that the Constitution does not allow changes to the rules and that the Constitution does not allow children to be treated abroad, which is absolutely ridiculous. I don't know how you, Mr. President, have found in your explanation an interpretation in the Constitution that this is all well in the Constitution and that the Constitution must allow for the treatment of children. On the other hand, after the amendments and additions to that regulation that I was talking about, about corrections and health insurance, in particular on the medical protection remedy, I said already, there was one group of children, maternity and pregnant women who were not certified after 9 August 2011, completely discriminated. It can't be treated right now and this law could be applied, say, to this particular category. This law actually regulates the question of the entire population in a very long period of time, unlimited to some special period, unlimited to some special intersection that is actually nowhere proven to be a rational intersection, that we know that that date was something, so that's when we can make it as a intersection. Obviously, the need to solve this problem permanently is also needed. It's obviously a good thing we have a law like this, although my dilemma, if we already have, has regulated this issue with one law, what will it look like in practice? We see that the Fund finds various ways to fence itself against its obligations, then I expect it to be called to that Health Insurance Act. You're saying this is a Lex special. It makes sense that the law that was later passed will be applied, but I'm afraid that the concise interpretation that the Fund has been serving us won't be in favour of these categories and that we're going to have to come back here in the Assembly to solve the issue, Professor Korać mentioned, a person with disabilities, that in some other way we're going to try to solve the issue of farmers. I'd like to settle it with one law, and we already have that law somewhere and that law is finally being applied. Our laws normally provide strong support to motherhood and children, but it is a very common situation that in practice it does not happen that way. We have a problem and that citizens do not know their rights until the end, especially women, especially marginal groups and women from marginal groups do not know their rights and are simply not in a position to ask for them to be realised, and even those who know their rights, come into the situation that they must not object to the employer, because they will be sanctioned, because they will lose their jobs in these times, and this is very irresponsible behaviour as employers do, because employers are constantly pointing out employees' obligations, and they do not stress their obligation to pay their contributions. However, when I look on the other side of the situation, even companies can no longer survive the laws that we here in the congregation bring. On the other hand, it shows me that citizens don't trust the state if they can't fight for their rights. The report by the Citizens' Protectors in this second part, which refers to the threat of health and the endangerment of health care, the failure of health care provided by law to the category of pregnant women and maternity, also shows examples of violations and also shows that the Fund pays very creatively its obligations, so, for example, preventive examinations of uterine and breast cancers, which are laid down by law once a year, the Fund pays once every three years. Now let me finally say something about the law itself. The Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for the law. We have submitted a number of amendments and we have really expressed one open suspicion that only this law will be applied specifically and that we will have to now make new laws for new categories. On the other hand, these amendments are, and we're going to talk about them when the time comes, when we talk about the amendments, somewhere termologically, maybe in some parts, and somewhere we've been expanding time for which some categories of population can exercise their rights. We'll talk about that later. We'll uphold the law. We just need to open another question - why didn't you as a proposing open the question of the category of women who give birth to third children, to what limit will this time-limit of their right be granted? On the other hand, I really have to say that it's very sad that we're even talking about restricting pregnant women and maternity women's right to health care for a year, 12 months after the birth of a child, and we're talking about the need to increase the birth rate in the country, we're talking about the need for society's attention finally to some other groups. It hurts me a lot somewhere, and I think we should open it up as a topic and talk about it. What's my big question is funds. You said and wrote in the explanation that Fund Director Babic said the funds were found within the existing Fund funds and that it would be 500 million funds and that some other funds would not have to be sought, but I found a statement by Mr Babic who said that the funds for that category were found within the existing ones, although then they might be reduced by budget rebalance, because here is a statement that went after what you said in June, that we would discuss this law in July, so we didn't. Well, now it's November. So it's a statement from those times. He says the funds may also be reduced by budget rebalance, so some additional funds will also need to be allocated at the annual level. I really didn't look at the budget in that part. I'll see if those funds are allocated, but it just seems to me that it's very important that these funds be defined if we're going to define ourselves to vote for this law. So, the DSS will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27045	It was used 17 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the authorised representative. The word is by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, who proposes the act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27046	Thank you for some helpful suggestions. As I have told other colleagues, I agree to open a debate on all topics that are widely affected by our society not only on this subject. Of course, this law solves only one of the problems. I focused on solving the problems of those children, pregnant women and maternity women who cannot achieve their rights precisely because employers could not or could not pay their contributions. In a conversation with the Information Service of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, I was told that even after this date of 9 August 2011, women can receive a PZD form, i.e. a health care certificate. It replaces the health book. The certificate may be obtained if documents from the PIO Fund on the non-monetary contribution of the employer are provided. Is that all ideal? No, we agree completely, but it's possible to get rid of it. So the state has set up a mechanism to solve it. This further pulls us back to everything that previous speakers have, starting with me, at the beginning of this debate said, which is that the health system is not perfect and that we have to work to improve it. So step by step. I wish we could go faster, but that's the contribution I could make. I hope that other colleagues will also participate and contribute to making this system better and more perfect and to talk to everyone else through public debates and through everything else, to see what resources exist and what is real. The rebalance of happiness was not from the time Mr. Babic and I talked about finding funds for this, so no funds will be reduced. He was present on the Health and Family Committee two days ago when we discussed it. He reiterated that the funds were secured, all 500 million, or as much as they were already in the dinar, I can't say right now, it's necessary for this to be realized by their projection. The funds are defined and there they are. So there will be no concern that there will be insufficient funds for this law to be implemented. So that's something that's completely safe. I certainly agree that special attention may be given to women who give birth to third, fourth, and more children. We may need to specifically define how to protect them better, but that's a good topic to think about. As you know, I am one of the MPs who is fully prepared to accept criticism and suggestion and a better solution, as I am prepared, when we discuss the amendments submitted by your parliamentary group, to agree together on what is real and what can be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27047	National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27048	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. When I was talking about the fact that the rulebook clearly determines that that date is a cross-section, I was talking about based on... I don't know what I'd call a meeting that was in a small hall and you chaired the bill of Mr. Protector of Citizens, where they were single parents, and also disabled children, where we could get this information that wasn't so, that some of them couldn't actually exercise their right after that date, because that date was some kind of cross-section that wasn't defined for any rational reason. On the other hand, what bothers me terribly as an MP is that, let's say, if you look at that rule that I am persistently referring to, brought to me in November 2012, he was in full collegiation with the law on which he was brought. Then it's the story of these sublegal acts that don't follow the law, but follow some logic. In that sense, my very open suspicion is that this will be interpreted by the Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27049	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Mirjana Dragas, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27050	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, draft law on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women as soon as it appeared as a proposal has brought great attention to all parliamentary parties, media and citizens in the broadest sense. From the public's overall reactions, which have so far emerged since his proposal, he has drawn attention in a positive sense because he has encountered such approval and one understanding that he has realized that he needs to enable a faster, more efficient and more quality health care of these sensitive categories of population in the coming period. The reasons for proposing this law are contained in the need to create better, faster and more efficient conditions for the exercise of the right to health protection of these categories, children, pregnant women and maternity women, which are covered, otherwise, as the debate so far has shown, and constitutional and legal protection. These are provisions of the Constitution of 68th and 97th, but beyond that. It is also understood that the right to be resolved by international documents that our country has accepted by the UN Charter on the Rights of the Child and ultimately by the General Health Protection Act. Half the year, it seems to me June 2013, in Serbia was the current "Priority for Children and Pregnants" campaign. It also seemed to me to be a reason to think and talk about this topic of additional protection for children, pregnant women and maternity and within the framework of the Women's Parliamentary Network, whose activity I would certainly like to commend to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, who, in his current term, has shown in fact the full justification for its formation and its existence. By his very appearance, the law drew attention to itself both to the newspaper and to the solutions he also carried with him. This is not the first law proposed here in the Assembly, which has caused our overall agreement, regardless of the parliamentary party from which the comment came. In fact, let us remember that here was the Law on the Protection of Pregnants and maternity in the field of employment, which required the employer's obligation to their complete health care and inability to fire them during maternity leave. Here we also discussed the Law against Violence on Women, which also caused our overall agreement that this additional law should provide for the protection of women in society. Now this law on the protection of children, maternity and pregnant women in relation to the exercise of the right to free health care also shows our overall positive attitude towards the initiative. It's something that actually shows the commitment of our society that the conditions in which we live should be improved. We need to create laws and respect them that go right into creating greater social, health security, greater protection and rights to life, a greater and better right to education and the overall quality of life. Generally when it comes to this, I would point out that the speed and quality that this law provides is something that is in any case effective in the sense that it is agreed and that it is proposed, which I also support, that the application of this law in relation to the time when it is adopted is not extended, that it is long awaited, but that its application be the next day after its publication. Health problems have been known for many years. Health problems in various previous times have been discussed with less or more attention. So far, no one has taken it to make clear his analysis, his problems and his culprits. We do not want to deal with the culprits, but we want to realize that in one year's time this government and this health minister cannot or could not correct all the problems that have been buried in health care for years, which have been destroyed by these or those measures, the rights of reduction, otherwise regulated and thus the right to provide health care against the citizens has been reduced or relativised. As far as this law is concerned, I would like to say that it is interesting that it is already seen in the debate that only a few, three or five members, refer to the regulation itself, that this law is also proposed in the other two or three members, i.e. a criminal liability for non-compliance with this law, which is required by the Republic Health Protection Fund to meet its obligations consistently, in accordance with these proposals. We wondered and wondered how this right would be ensured unless a person had a certified health book? And this is regulated by this law – by obtaining a certificate from the Fund on the condition in which the person is located, or the age of the child, this right will be exercised, whether or not the health book is certified, whether or not it has a mandatory stamp, whether or not the employer has paid the contributions. But on this occasion, I would like to stress that still the Assembly, Government and Laws, the Ministry of Finance and all other relevant institutions should insist on the employer's obligations towards meeting their obligations when it comes to contributions to health and pension insurance must be strictly respected. So this doesn't release them from those obligations. The bill also represents a significant change from the safe position of children, pregnant women and the protection of these categories of the population during the most sensitive period of their lives and shows important relationship and concern for the health and growth of the population because these are, in addition to education, the most significant national resources. That's why taking care of children, pregnant women and maternity care should be a priority for every country, especially Serbia, when we have in mind what our problems and phenomena are like when it comes to the number of people and the population problems in general. According to the latest reports of all national services, Serbia loses one city each year in a population, say those who want to do it more flexiblely or to point out to us that each year, for example, it loses one Apatin, Negotin or Petrovac. That means about 30,000 people somewhere. In Serbia, more people die every year than they are born. No child has been born in many settlements for a long time. Many villages remained only with several nursing homes. The houses and schools remain closed. Can you tomorrow or can we all imagine tomorrow one Serbia having its forests, rivers and pastures, which will have its fields and meadows, but where there won't be enough children's wages, there won't be enough people in the mood to create a new work? If we can imagine such a Serbia now, then this idea will oblige us to now, with this measure that I absolutely support, as well as other measures similar to those of the Assembly that we have brought in this period, in the future, to create better, more comprehensive and comprehensive measures that will ensure that the population in Serbia is restored, that it works, that it has health and social protection in terms of human life, that it has the right to education and the right to work, and that we have stronger and more economically developed Serbia. So, this bill of law, too, I'm experiencing on the path of one of these goals and one of these tasks. Government measures adopted over the last year, efforts and targets set, which primarily go in terms of economic revitalisation, the creation of new industrial and production plants, industrial not in the most classical sense of words, the objectives that go towards securing a larger number of jobs and opening up production plants are in fact something that can provide Serbia with its own capital. And we will all agree that only the own capital that we have in our hands and which we have created in our work can provide us with the future. Such a government that sees these issues of production and work responsibly will then be able to provide overall solutions to these other issues of life. We've seen population problems for almost 40 years. By 1960, demographics and statisticians say that the restoration of Serbia's population was held at the level of free reproduction, i.e. the birth of a 2.1 child. Since then, this problem has been getting more and more pronounced every year. It has an increasingly negative tendency to lose 31,967,000 for a total period of over 300,000 people over the last 10 years, according to statistics since 2002-2012. Experts dealing with these issues, doctors, psychologists, economists, academics, etc. they asked the state to stop at this time with a clear policy towards the needs of restoring the population and to put it as its priority. Various measures, programmes, development strategies, etc. have been adopted. which involved and which planned certain measures in terms of protecting the population, restoring it, the right to protection and the special position of children, youth, etc. But what we can regret is to see that all these programs and all these strategic orientations have remained on paper for the past ten years. What's important, at least that's how I experience it, is that for the past ten years, wild liberal capitalism has entered Serbia wide open doors and after 2000 it simply promoted new values that never existed here before. Connected with our ignorance, our irresponsibleness, putting personal interests above the generals, because it is now and also the image of a new time, when everything without criteria should be privatized, without goal and concern sold out, then happened and definitely our economic but also demographic loss and fall. The companies were closed, people were out of work, without being able to find him again. Young people had nowhere to work and therefore and then, and there is still a constant tendency to leave young and educated people from Serbia. Health and social protection measures have been reduced during this period. They were kicked out of the company because it finally didn't go with capital, profits, and private property, and the state weakened new obligations and tasks could not wash away. In this sense, I will only state as an example or as an illustration that before 2000 there was a Law on Social Care for Children. This law, for example, is a law. defined the existence of income compensation for women during the maternity and extended maternity leave of the employed parent and adoptor for the care of the child in the amount of 100% earnings. There was a maternal supplement that he defined to make 30% of the income for mothers who weren't employed. Then help and equipment to the newborn, child support, cost and stay compensation at the preschool institution for the third child, and a number of other measures relating to the first, second and third children, the fourth child in the areas and areas of Serbia in which demographic depopulation is particularly expressed and the problem of not restoring the population. Pre-school education and education for children without parental ageing, children with developmental disorders, children on extended hospital treatment, educational education programme in the year prior to school leave, stay and pre-school education and preventive protection of pre-school children, rest and recreation up to 15 years of age in children's resort, regressing the cost of stay, etc. etc. So over ten or more different measures were envisaged, we eventually rejected them. We said companies couldn't exist, the state didn't accept them, and then we started to create some new measures. When we look at this law, you will see a series of members connected to which certain periods of time are said to be deleted, that they no longer apply, that it is, for example, The law since 1992 has been so complex and systematically changed 14 times to have a lower and lower level of protection each time. I would like to say, as has already been said in the debate, that this system is being reconsidered. To return to the good solutions that our former socially responsible state had, and whose values were so quickly and without criteria rejected, although these are not the only ones of that kind. This government is responsible for efforts towards economic recovery. Personally, I will believe that its objectives are exactly like this and that our efforts in the next period will just go into this goal, as I said, and that they will thus be expressed as being national goals and interests of health, education, population policy and national programme. I'm experiencing this law going that way. I support him personally, as well as all others who will make certain proposals in this direction in the future, even if they are partial, so that in general, we will have the security that we will reach these goals together. At the same time, I would like to express that the SPS in the voting day will also agree with this law and particularly praise the overall activity of the Committee on the Rights of the Child in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27051	It was used 17 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27052	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I will briefly refer to the legislative proposal tabled by the President of the National Assembly, given that I am a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network and that I come from a party that has very important solutions in the area of social protection. I remind you that the PUPS parliamentary group has submitted its proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act, which provides for benefits for pregnant women to be paid at the level of full childcare income, as another type of support for the state and society, for pregnant women who have begun to exercise those rights since 1 January 2014. This proposal would further regulate the possibility of providing health care to children and pregnant women and maternity families, socially endangered groups. I use the word on purpose – additionally because the free protection of these categories is already in principle guaranteed by the roof Health Protection Act. However, if legal and other legal parameters are placed on one side, and on the other hand the real situation and the question of the possibility of exercising its rights, we see that this is a real situation far from what the legislator has declared and wanted in the adoption of the Health Protection Act. The fact is that a certain number of employers do not pay social contributions, and then it also has consequences that employees and members of their families cannot exercise the Constitution guaranteeed the right to health care, unfortunately, have long become our cruel reality. Therefore, the reasons for adopting such a law in a country with a health and financial system would not even be laid down, so there would be no need to pass such a law. But since our work on black and non-payment of social funds has long become a common reality, it is the adoption of a law that essentially eliminates the inability to exercise the right to health care because of an untrusted health book that we hope we all have to do, that the sooner it becomes unnecessary, and the PUPS parliamentary group will vote for this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27053	Since the time of the authorised representative, two minutes and 40 seconds have been used. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27054	I would like to draw attention to today's World Day Against Diabetes, Against Diabetes, which in Serbia suffers from more than half a million of our fellow citizens, and in this connection I have officially asked the Secretariat of the National Assembly to beat the dome of the National Assembly tonight with blue light, which is an international battle against diabetes. I also want to congratulate the glory of St. Cosmo and Damian, who is the glory of many Serbs, but also the glory of many doctors, the medical esnaf. It's at the very beginning. Dear Mr Stefanovic, at the very session of the Committee, we held a good debate about the bill and I will start the same way as I did at the Committee's session when I asked the question – why did the Ministry of Health not deliver an opinion on the bill? This is for the first time that the Assembly Committee on Health and Family has not received the opinion of the Ministry of Health in connection with the proposed law. The second question is, why isn't the Minister of Health with us today unrelated to what you're proposing? I think it was supposed to be before, considering you're the president of the Parliament and the Proposer, someone from the Health Department here. I want to hear both the opinion and the Ministry of Health. What I said next on the Committee in the plenary session, I repeat, that I asked representatives of the Republic Fund and the Ministry of Health – why do we single out this bill from the already existing Health Insurance Act, including health care, which we adopted in the last term? I will introduce the citizens of Serbia and my fellow MPs to Article 22 of our current Serbian Health Insurance Act, which provides for what this law provides. That Article 22 says - insurance undertakings within the meaning of this law and under the conditions prescribed by this law are also considered persons belonging to a population group exposed to an increased risk of disease. The position of the 1st member is - children up to the age of 18, school children and students until the end of the prescribed schooling, and no later than 26 years in accordance with the law. Article 2 - women with regard to family planning, as well as during pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood up to 12 months after birth. What this Article 22 protects, not only protects these two groups, it protects some other vulnerable groups, so I will mention them and ask them - and why may we discriminate against older people over 65 who are in the position of the 3rd of this law? Are we discriminating persons with disabilities under pension and disability insurance regulations, as well as mentally underdeveloped persons in Section 4? Are we discriminating in the position of the 9th unemployed and other categories of socially endangered persons whose monthly income below incomes are determined in accordance with this law? Are we discriminating in the attitude of the 11th person of Roma nationality, who, because of the traditional lifestyle, do not have a permanent residence or residence in the Republic of Serbia? Whether or not under Article 12 of the applicable Health Insurance Act Article 22.12. - victims of domestic violence, whether or not they have been put on the other side of the plan, under heading 3. - victims of human trafficking. There's a lot of attitude. What I'm saying is that we've already passed this law and it's already embedded in the existing Health Insurance Act. The problem is, unfortunately, the health care system in Serbia is not working and I think it's the right topic. That's the topic we need to talk about. That's why the Minister of Health had to be here. Mr. Stefanovic can't answer some things, because he's not in medicine, he's not a doctor and he's not in the health care system, but that's why the representatives of the health ministry had to be here and say, "What are you people doing for the last year and a half?" It's not just pregnant women, maternity and children who are at risk here. We're all at risk. These are the most vulnerable groups, but Serbian citizens see clearly every day how they are treated. Serbian citizens over the media hear that the health system is great, that everything is phenomenal, everything works, and if someone says otherwise, they say – abuse of position, we will replace you, comment on something that is not your part-time job. I think it is absolutely clear to the citizens of Serbia what conditions are being treated. These are things we can't keep quiet and we need to talk about, just like this is a very human thing, protecting pregnant women and maternity parents and children up to 18 years old. It's also humane for other citizens I mentioned to be protected. They're guaranteed by the Constitution, but the system somehow makes it impossible for them. For over 20 years, the health care system has been planned or unplanned and for the last year and a half has definitely experienced one end, a failure. Even that Tomica Milosavljevic, who, in my opinion, was the worst health minister, at the time at least worked. There were bad things, but now I think the situation is very bad. I'll always agree, I'll support these initiatives both as a doctor and as a professor, I'm not going to have any patients, I'm not going to be a patient who came without a book, and without instructions, no doctor has ever done that. I don't know the doctor who could have done it to get the sick patient back, even if he knew he might even be breaking the law. Ours is the main law, the law of life and the struggle for our patients. We need to talk more about treatment conditions. What has happened in the last year and a half with our health care? Why is there no medication in our health care? Why centralised public procurement led to drug shortages, which directly led to the endangerment of our citizens' health. It mentions savings that were realised through health savings, practically savings occur and some money that is excess in the health system itself. I say, that surplus was made because the centralized public procurement was not implemented, many did not know how to meet those needs and that money remained. Now I say - then we were practically saving on the health of the population of Serbia, because if I say that you do not have in many health institutions sincum, ephtyl, niripan, gas station, flormira, rivotril, chlorafenicol, erythromycin syrup, atropine drops, not to add 40 more medicines. We now say, "We want to protect pregnant women." We certainly want to protect pregnant women and that's the topic. But I want the health department to sit here and say it's gonna protect pregnant women. What's the Health Department campaign? We go home, we measure height, weight, state of the nation. Guys, we're a sick nation. We kids don't have the money to treat, they can't be treated. The health ministry needs to measure our waist, and our waist is getting weaker because we are poor, so our citizens are practically healthier than other countries, because they are poor, with 30,000, 20,000 wages, they can't buy some meat, they buy literally fruit and vegetables, which is basically healthy, I say as a doctor that it's healthy, but it's good to eat and eat meat, it's good to drink milk, and with our salaries we can't. Now we need to measure the height, the weight of the citizens, so they know something's wrong. I keep saying that for a year and a half – it's not good. The citizens tell me: Bravo, defend us, fight for us, and the minister says: he slanders and lies, that is not true. Let's talk, if we're talking about fighting for the rights of pregnant women, children under the age of 18, that's great, but we have to say if it's functional in the state of Serbia. I repeat, no doctor has returned any patients from the hospital's doorstep. As much as the doctor's fama beats for corruption, some affairs, some things, but trust me, no normal doctor has returned the patient. If anyone's back, I can sign that he's straying into the medical profession. The point is to realize that our system is dysfunctional, that we must not run from it, nor the ruling party, nor the opposition party, and that, as well as at the board's session when we talked, I think it was a good session of the board where we had positive opinions, positive opinions about how we really need to take care of our citizens, to say, we will, as politicians, but people who are responsible for that must do so. Who's in charge of that? Nebojsa Stefanovic is not in charge. Dusan Milisavljevic is not in charge. It's the Ministry of Health, who's not here. I don't know why he's not here. They're either being fenced by this bill, or they're being fenced by Mr. Stefanovic, or they're doing more important things. It measures the profession and weight of Serbian citizens to know whether we are sick or not. I don't think a lot of things in Serbia are good. What measured this is that unfortunately we are at the top of the European list of malignancies, by the number of patients with high blood pressure, but unfortunately also by the number of deaths from cancers and cardiovascular diseases. If the Ministry of Health doesn't know that, I'm telling him. Guys, don't weigh the weight of the citizens. Know that our patients are dying because they are waiting for oncology treatment in Nis, Novi Sad for more than three, three and a half months, so when someone tells me that, Dushan, you're confusing the public, I'm telling you that if they lose two weeks of surgical treatment, they're at a lower rate of survival after they've finished treatment. He's in direct danger of life. As a MP, I have to defend the interests of the citizens who turn to me and I know that we have to deal with it. We can't run away from those problems. The problems are waiting lists. The waiting lists have definitely become fashion in the state of Serbia in the last year and a half, two days. Yesterday, the main news in Kragujevac was that an operation was scheduled in Kragujevac in the Clinical Centre in 2025. People will get us into the EU sooner than anyone will wait for the operation. It's a scandal. What is more important for the Ministry of Health than to say – wait, the Minister is from Kragujevac, let her go there to see what the problem is, let her solve the problem. These are the things the Minister of Health needs to do. If I were in that place, I'd take care of it first. Can't wait lists be a problem. And pregnant women are on the waiting list, we're talking about pregnant women today, we're talking about kids, kids are waiting for surgery for a long time. Last year, remember, there was controversy when I opened the topic of cataract surgery and 20,000 citizens waiting. There are both women and children, there are our oldest citizens. It's 25,000 now. Instead of reducing the number, he increased. It's not DS's fault. I can say that with a clear face – the DS never, unfortunately, had either the minister's assistant, nor the secretary of state, let alone the minister. Unfortunately, we are guilty of letting G17 destroy us, to destroy our health care. I accept that guilt. But this, we need to understand that this health care must be a priority of all parties, that the health system must not be a system that is to be divided – it has been taken by the SPS, it has been taken by the SNS, it has been taken by the Democrats. The priority of health policy must not be shared. We need to understand that our citizens are living badly, that citizens are being treated badly, and that each of us has to make some contribution to improve it. Mr. Stefanovic's initiative is to specify this. I don't see anything wrong with that. I voted once for this bill and I can vote again, but the point is that health ministry gentlemen have to be there and tell us that they will allow this treatment, because this treatment is now very bad and under the big question. Lack of different material. Now you're waiting for vaccines, waiting for hips, waiting for stents. People, as a doctor, I'm telling you, you have a good director of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, not to criticise as an opposition, Miljko Ristic, the professor is good, but a man has nothing to do. So they don't have any people to work with. Someone's got to be responsible for it. It can't be anyone's fault. So everything's cool and nobody's guilty, and people with myocardial infarction have to wait for an angiography to be done, to make a stand. In some African countries, not wanting to insult African countries, but beyond their economic conditions, they have better protection than we do. These are things we need to talk about. Hooks, other prosthetics, or now announces that we're going to take some valves from China, which no country in Europe is going to take, so cardiosurgeons are rebelling for it. So he's got a lot of problems. I want to debate with the Minister of Health, with the people of the Ministry of Health and with representatives of the Republic Fund. Guys, let's take it easy on everyone. This is not a criticism for criticizing the opposition, to say - you're just criticizing, but I offer a solution in every address. PRESIDENT: People's MP, I ask you to try to link all the solutions to the provisions of the law on the agenda. I'm really asking you. Here you go. Thank you very much. I don't think you're a doctor, so you don't understand the problems. All these problems I've identified are the problems our pregnant women face. I'd ask you to look at me and not make faces while I'm talking. Can I go on? If you don't allow it, I can break what I thought I was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27056	It was used 14 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I remind all participants in the debate on the obligation to respect Article 106, to speak on the subject of the agenda, as well as on the obligation that every MP, the debate participant listens to the chairperson who has an obligation to make suggestions when listening to any participant feels it is good to remember the topic of the agenda, that there is no misunderstanding about what the role of the chairman is. The word is by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, who proposes the act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27057	I just have to say one thing, because it is somehow related to the work of the congregation. Namely, the Minister of Health or the representatives of the Ministry of Health can't be here unless we call them. So they can't come by on their own initiative, and we didn't formally call them. We didn't call them because they weren't proposing this act. He was an assistant minister present at the Health Committee, sat on my right and he took the word second or third in the debate, I don't remember anymore. You remember he said at the Committee's session that the Ministry of Health supports the adoption of this law. So they set themselves up. And then when we talked, I said that I completely agree that it would have been much better if the minister had given an opinion, that the Ministry had given us an opinion, that it had given us an explanation. I think that would be better for the National Assembly, but, of course, as you know, the National Assembly doesn't have to have any executive authority's opinion. It is good that these topics that have nothing to do with this law, as far as Serbia's citizens' health is concerned, are opening up. I hope that in the next period we will have the opportunity to engage in public debates, public hearings, through some kind of consultation that we will have with the Ministry, and hopefully other competent state authorities for this particular area, raise these difficult issues. These difficult questions exist for many years. We remember when he was sneezing around the clinic years ago, so he came to the clinic and he couldn't even turn around. And for that, some people are responsible and it needs to be determined. So there are a lot of things we need to talk about. I thank everyone for their support, for those who have participated in the debate so far, for supporting this law as just the first step in resolving these major issues. I really think that other categories deserve a comprehensive debate, which I hope we will have opportunities to discuss more seriously in the coming months, as well as people with disabilities, which Mr. Korac spoke of, which is a very important category. There are a large number of disabled people in our country. Also, let's talk about children with special needs, children with rare diseases, etc. There's a really big burden on this society, but we also have to see which one belongs. When we talk to the people of the Ministry of Labour, they rightly say -- they can't all fall for us, all categories fall for us, and we just don't have the resources. So we need to see what's in health care, what's in the social system, and what's in some other categories, find the money, and then, of course, let's focus on this. I say it one more time, thank you all. Mrs. Comic has been doing this skillfully, she's a long-standing MP, but it's not easy. I ask you to help the MPs who chair, vice presidents of the National Assembly, because it's not always easy to keep order in the hall, because we all have different opinions and when we sit in these benches, believe me, it looks completely different from this perspective, and different when you're in the position of the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27058	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word, right to replication, for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27059	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Stefanovic, in a proposal for your law and at the Committee's session, the Fund's director said he provided funds for the implementation of this law. I will read again the current Article 22 of the current Health Insurance Act, which says that funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance for persons referred to in Article 1 to 4 of this Article and on the basis and by the rate of contributions for compulsory health insurance prescribed by this law. So there are already regulated funds for the Proposal for this Law for Articles 1 and 2. What I must also confirm is that, under the current Health Insurance Act, Article 204 regulates all the views of Article 22. This means that Serbia's budget is guaranteed by means of financial treatment for all these vulnerable groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27060	The word is from MP Mirko Chikiriz, authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27061	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Stefanovic, our parliamentary group will be very pleased, as well as other parliamentary groups, to support this bill. It is good that these initiatives come from both the speaker of the Assembly and the parliamentary groups, etc. What we expected and what is perfectly natural, given the state of the health system, is that it is precisely that the Ministry of Health, which is most referenced to the problem and situation in the health system, initiates such laws and changes, to show that from a half-human society we are going towards a more just and humane society. Unfortunately, such an initiative is lagging behind and it seems to us that exactly the Ministry of Health is one of the weakest links in the work of this government and that there is absolutely no assessment of the necessity of structural reforms in our health system. I am a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the father of three children, and of course we must when we make all the laws to look through one human prism and through the prism of what is really happening on the ground. In all my discussions on the state of the health system, I handled myself, not only what I see in the media, but also personal experiences and what citizens appear to us daily and locate as the main problems in the functioning of our health system. Several births have recently appeared from several health institutions, and I asked them – what are your impressions of reception and everything else? Believe that they are very similar. Going to the maternity home should be a special day in life and maternity and the whole family and the whole society. The reception should be a worthy man, because it brings to the world one or more lives and what is the minimum expectation of maternity, it is one human relationship and ethical relationship doctor – patient. She is, unfortunately, often lagging behind. The first thing a family has to do is find a connection with some doctor who's going to do what his medical duty tells him to pay attention to the mother so something extraordinary doesn't happen. In many major health centers, for example, boilers do not work, no hot water for pregnant women and maternity mothers, cockroaches are in the rooms where pregnant women and maternity mothers are placed. I say, not only doctors, and of course that picture is not black and white, there are extraordinary ones, but all medical staff and assistant workers from maids to doctors are most often, according to patient estimates, acting as small gods because they are safe with their salaries, they come from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. They know that everyone is in a position to beg them for a favor and it's kind of being abused, which proves how much we, as a society and as a human being, lost to humanity, how morally we fell. When there's talk of general responsibility, I'm presenting some life situations, and then I'm going to tell you about something else that's equally important, there's no responsibility at all for sanctioning the ministry's monitoring of the situation. Mr. Milisavljevic, as chairman of the Health Committee, talked about the fact that not many appliances work both for diagnostics and for later monitoring, not just pregnant and maternity, but for all insurance. We have raised the issue several times in the National Assembly, and many apparatus, such as radiation apparatus, are not working in large health centers and it is known that the patient is at greater risk for mortality after surgery with some malignant disease if he does not receive air therapy within 30, 30 and a few days. We have never seen the Ministry of Health change the director, punish him, call for responsibility, which is directly responsible for not working, which he did not provide, because the RFZO regularly transfers funds for these purposes, but the health minister's response is to misplan the funds of the managers. And yet, there's no responsibility. It's the same situation with a lack of medication, some essential medications, where patients on hospital treatment are directed to buy drugs, they are not given confirmation that they can charge RFO for these drugs. That's how patients pay twice for one favor. They pay through mandatory health insurance and the law is broken, they are asked to buy drugs again, and they are not distracted by the fact that they have the right to refund the costs of the RZZO. Mr. Milisavljevic mentioned something I wanted to mention and what I mentioned several times, these are the famous waiting lists. Kragujevac has been in this unpopular place for the past few years, and unfortunately, with a lot of understanding for doctors with limited resources, often the necessary implants are missing. The health ministry and the RFO have not, it seems, taken all the measures they need to take to reduce the waiting lists. The national system of health care for women, children and youth from 2009 sets out the goals of child health, pregnant and maternity care. So, prevention, treatment, preservation and protection of those population groups, but we needed a Lex specialis, a special law to make this and also a national health care system literally implement in practice. Since these are categories of populations with an increased risk of disease, it is good that, with the right to be treated and to receive full health care, it also enables them to collect transport costs related to the use of health care, and it is good that, where we have repeatedly insisted, responsibility, or responsibility for non-response of sanctions, as provided for in the criminal provisions here, we find it appropriate to have the weight of liability that they do not respect the law. This law is one way to improve humanity and what I've been talking about, one human approach to people who are most often, in addition to families that have gone to a hospital that's positive, people who are at risk of health. Our society in this part showed and showed some high degree of humanity, not to be a picture of only black and white, because, let's say, for providing emergency medical care to foreigners, vagrants, people who don't have a health book and health insurance, I haven't heard anywhere that the case in some medical facility has not been provided with emergency medical attention, but complete medical care is another question. From a health institution to a health institution, from habits, from tradition, from the strukture of the executives, from what values are placed, depends largely on access to health care. Here, I'm going to mention a negative maybe Benning, maybe not such an important example, but an example that's a classic in our health system. Let's just say, one patient at Cachak Medical Center had hypertension with nosebleeds and it lasted a few days. She was admitted to the Health Center and believed it or not, in five days of hospital treatment, no one measured her blood pressure. Let's say, within the Center of Health Cačak, we have another positive example, which is the House of Health of Guča, where he works extremely kindly medical staff, extremely kind doctors and where what happens at the important health center of the Health Center Cačak. This law is also seen in the context of the fight against the white plague. For what? Well, we're the oldest European society. We have more than 52 years of age than 15. Demographic indicators are disastrous for this society. This is one of the contributions of the fight against the white plague, and we have pointed several times in the National Assembly to the demographic movements and demographic trends of this country which are extremely negative. On the other hand, what's really good is helping children and foster families in terms of one-time cash compensation. It gives the Republic, local self-government and it's really something that's good and, of course, I have to remain in force. It is necessary to understand the position of the doctor, so that not only doctors or medical staff are responsible for the condition in the medical system. For what? Because they have a large number of exams a day, they are constant crowds, because in many diseases we are in the negative list of European peaks for malignancies, cardiovascular diseases, as far as mortality is concerned. Which is the weakest level of healthcare in Europe, because even Albania has better healthcare. Which is an opportunity for a doctor to examine between 30 and 70 patients daily and not get paid and take a position in society compared to their colleagues from better organized systems. What I was also going to say is that the existing Health Insurance and Health Protection Act also provides for accessibility, justice and the comprehensiveness of health care, but it is obvious that all discussions are coming, even from the very proposal of this law that it has not been respected so far. What are we going to get with this law? Well, we'll get a lot of it. At least in this part and maternity care, pregnant women will feel safer, and I especially think of the rural category of the population and many colleagues have pointed to what we have previously pointed to a very big problem of health insurance for our farmers, disabled people and people with a very bad social map. Two hundred euros a year separates each of our employees in the health care system and these are unsatisfactory isolates and, of course, better regulation of the health care system will not eliminate all problems, but many can be eliminated. No matter what some health institution manager did, we only in this assembly turned twice the debt of health institutions into public debt, it seems to me to be 140, 150m euros, no matter what the health institution manager did. Is there a shortage, a shortage of basic drugs, and the Republic Health Insurance Fund has transferred funds. Did he make a huge loss against the law, etc., exactly according to the party protection system, since the Ministry of Health determines and mainly sets up personnel from their political option, the healthcare institution's manager can literally do anything to make any responsibility while his party is in power, which we think really needs to change, and we need to finally separate those who do really well, who do very important social work, a very complex job for which long school, long-term specializations, do a stressful job, so we have to reward, and the others seem to have to punish ourselves in some way. We have invested around 50m euros of funds in reconstruction of health institutions and the purchase of appliances and equipment, and many funds have been received from donations. We have never received feedback as to how these funds have been spent, and besides those inscriptions in the media that there have been numerous abuses we have never received adequate answers from the state authorities, which again points to a kind of irresponsibility and general public service. What we are interested in in the future is whether we are really going to establish one more humane humane relationship in the health care system, will we include other categories of population besides these categories? Will those who primarily manage health institutions, do so in a bad way, finally begin to bear responsibility for poor management? Here, I'm finishing up...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27062	People's MP, please bring the content of your discussion into contact with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27063	The most common expression we can hear from citizens in the current health care system is - difficult for those who are not in the health care system to find themselves in his hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27064	Fifteen minutes and 40 seconds used by an authorised representative. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want to use their time in this part of the session? If so, please sign in. Since there are no reports, we will continue the session with a debate on the application for the word of the MPs, and I would like to inform you that they are in agreement with Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing, and with the order of the Members of Parliament, the majority of the parliamentary groups, there are 40 MPs reported for the word and we move on to the section of the session where the words are given to the MPs in a orderly manner. First Messenger of the People, Karolj Chizik, followed by the People's Messenger Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27065	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The issue of restoring the population and increasing the birth rate cannot be achieved by one measure alone. The problem is complex and requires comprehensive measures, such as relief in housing policy, credit policy, tax policy, employment policy. There is a need to do something concrete in order to be cautiously and gradually stimulated. A key role in encouraging an increase in birth rate must lead the city, the state by creating a more favourable environment for birth. The demographic Sunflower began in the early 1990s, but so far no government has dealt with this problem seriously. Two years ago, a birth incentive strategy was adopted, which remained a dead letter on paper, because it was not applied. The reason is they say empty register. The reviving of the Strategy on Inciting Birth depends not only on money. It doesn't take money for the inspection to start doing his job and punishing employers who fire future mothers as soon as they're pregnant. Additional money doesn't even need to be organised better by the health care service, so pregnant women don't pay doctors at birth. Harmonizing kindergarten working hours with parenting hours would make it a lot easier for families. The state is doing nothing to help parents. There are ways to improve the situation, but the state must show a minimum of goodwill in concrete compliance with population policy measures. There are not enough statements of family support. A little help from local self-government when a child is born, excluding VAT on children's needs, and with a lot of documentation to be collected for months, and after months, waiting for funds to return. The proposed law, which is on the agenda today, stipulates that every child, pregnant and foster child has the right to health care on the basis of a health certificate issued by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, whether or not the document has been certified. The proposed law is good and does not go in the direction that those who do not pay contributions are protected, because this should be dealt with by tax administrations and other competent institutions that need to show a firmness in tax and contribution charges. It is estimated to cost between 450 and 500 million dinars that the Fund can handle. Pregnant women and maternity mothers will receive carefree treatment, and their healthcare will be done better. In Serbia, according to union estimates, health books are not certified for 100,000 workers. Workers have become collateral damage, unconscious employers, who do not pay taxes and contributions, including health insurance. Citizens' protector Sasa Jankovic found that the RFO violates the child's right to health insurance when it refuses to verify children's books, whose employers do not pay for health insurance. The rights of the child cannot depend on the performance of the third party's obligations, because it is guaranteed by the Constitution, where it is the obligation of the State to bear the directness and the costs of the exercise of that right. Demographers have long warned of catastrophic combinations, low natural growth and youth outflows to other countries and the main reason Serbia has lost 40,000 people each year. It is further concerned that our country is one of the oldest in Europe, and it is already quite obvious that by 2025 most citizens will be over 65 years old. There are various recipes to help Serbia cope with the white plague. The low birth rate entails an excessive ageing of the population. Currently in Serbia, the sixth population is over 65 years old, 900,000 citizens in central Serbia and about 300,000 in Vojvodina. In 2003, natural growth was positive, with only 10 municipalities in Serbia and not in any of the 65 municipalities in Vojvodina. Serbia loses one town per year of 30,000 people, as about 100,000 people die and only 70,000 babies are born. A survey conducted two years ago by the Serbian Demograph Society showed that out of 165 municipalities in Serbia, a negative natural growth is 158. More babies were born than people died in only seven municipalities. The country's only measure introduced as an incentive to deliver is a parental supplement. Of course, in order to achieve this right, there is a list of ten items that all of the document must be attached. So the newly-roasted parents must set aside at least 15 days to collect the necessary documentation. In addition, the biggest problem is the high unemployment rate of young people in Serbia. Young people in a situation like this can't start a family. In the end, let me just add, that you can expect MP LSV to support this law in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27066	The time available to the parliamentary group has been used. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. After that, MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27067	I thank the chairman, but I would ask you, since the motionary, Mr Stefanovic, is not in the O.R., to give me the opportunity to speak when he is in the O.R., or to invite him to come here, and I don't mind if you continue on the list, unless it bothers other MPs, for the reason I want to ask him a few questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27068	It's consensual. In cases where the People's MP is a proposing then as every MP has no comfort from the associates who work for us, but I mean the MP in the building and that it's really a short break, so we can wait five minutes and come back. It cannot be resisted not to send a brief message to the government's representatives that in the same way, as the draft act currently does, it also respects the National Assembly. I'm just asking you to sign up again. Here you go. National MP Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27069	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, today when we consider the Law on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, maternity and pregnant women, we really need to ask ourselves one question, what is the health system in this country at all. Is he good, bad, and should he be changed? If he were ideal, we wouldn't have a bill like this on the agenda today. Mr. Stefanovic, you are the promoter of this act. I believe, however, that you have the right to do so by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I believe that this bill should have been given by the Government and that we have here today a Minister of Health, who could have answered some more questions. Of course, I don't mind you suggesting this law, although I do believe that since you are the President of Parliament, it is your primary task to make an effort to increase the rating of this institution that we are all in today. In order to know how we have health care and how we need to change it, we need first and foremost to know the reasons why the health system in Serbia works, the way it works, and which makes the growing number of citizens dissatisfied with the medical service provided. I asked Mr. Stefanovic to return to the O.R., since I have a few questions to ask you about this law, and you are the legislator of this law. In Article 3 of the bill, you suggest that children, pregnant women and maternity women exercise the right to health care in the content, the scope of the standards covered by compulsory health insurance. Do we even know what compulsory health insurance is in this country? What rights do pregnant women, maternity and children have, but also other citizens, who are considered mandatory health insurance? I think that's the basic question, of course, that you, I guess you can't give me an answer, but that's probably the kind of question we could or should at least expect to get an answer from the health minister. Does this Article 3 mean that this member will also apply to the treatment of children abroad, since we know that a commission has been formed to decide whether children can or can not be treated abroad? Will children who don't have a certified health book be treated so that they can be treated abroad? Does Article 3 mean, since we don't know, I don't think anyone in this country knows what compulsory health insurance is, it gives women a chance, and that's why. It's not in this bill that they have the right to be treated for out-of-body insemination? You will agree that if Natalie is a major problem, which she is in this country, then it is certainly necessary for the state to allocate significant funds for out-of-body fertilisation. The state has to find money for something like that. When we talk about this mandatory health care and this bill, I need to ask you a question. You here, Article 4, suggest that these rights be exercised on the basis of an ID, whether it is certified or not. You said in the opening statement that you suggest this because many employers did not make contributions. Does this mean that when a pregnant woman, child or maternity child appears in a health care facility, and has no health book, it means she doesn't have the right, that they won't have the right to provide this law? As much as we know that those who are unemployed can get a health book through the National Employment Service. The fact is that in Serbia many women, many citizens do not know that they have such a right at all. So I'm asking you, since you're a proposing, will this law apply to those who don't have a health book at all? The law provides for certain penalties for the Republic Health Insurance Fund if it does not allow birthrights, pregnant women and children to be exercised, more specifically if they do not exercise the right to health care related to this law. We believe there is another punishment to be imposed. It's not enough that in the last two members you say that a health care institution will suffer punishment unless it informs the Republic Health Insurance Fund, for example. that the baby died. We believe that a health care facility should bring this sentence back to the maternity, child or pregnant woman unless she has a certified health certificate. In order to enforce this law, it is, first and foremost, that a woman or a pregnant woman comes to a health care facility? If they return it, and no punishment is prescribed for it, it will not attain its right. That is why I think that in the Bill of Law in this Article 9, it is necessary to add that punishment will be paid by a health care institution if a woman or a pregnant woman or a child is returned without a certified health certificate. In order to talk about it, that now the pregnant and the maternity and the children will be better, we must first of all know that it is not enough just to be taken by a doctor, and it is true that many doctors have received both women and old women, and sick persons to review even though they did not have a certified health book. It is necessary that healthcare institutions have working conditions. For example, they need incubators. We do not have such data - in how many health institutions in Serbia do not have ultrasounds, incubators and basic treatments, not only those that need pregnant women, but also other citizens of this country. And it's really been a big problem since the public procurement and the centralized public procurement was made. I know it's been a desire to save things, but in certain local self-governments and in certain health institutions, you don't have medicines to treat basic diseases today, let alone asthma or any other disease. You have a situation that in certain health centres in the part where births are done, there are also no basic means needed for that. If the government were a promoter, we could ask the Minister of Health today. You know what the main problem is, Mr. Stefanovic? This country has no record of how many people, how many citizens are being treated in health care facilities in this country at all. A number of citizens must be treated in private. It's those citizens who can pay for it. But the majority of citizens are not being treated at all. And worse still, they are their own doctors. But that's what pregnant women do, so do children. I don't think kids give it to themselves, but therapy gives them mothers based on some experience. Now it has already become a practice for therapy to be prescribed on the Internet by entering symptoms on Google and getting people far faster to buy some drugs than to go to a health care facility, which then creates another consequence, that instead of preventing something, we later have to treat some problems. We have no objection to this law being passed in parliament, but I would ask you to answer one basic question – will that be achieved by those who do not have health books at all, and do you think that they should be sanctioned medical institutions if they return children, pregnant women and foster mothers without an approved health certificate?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27070	Nine minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The speaker of the act, National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27071	I must tell you that we had a similar discussion with one of my colleagues when I proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. I think so, and I will continue to act that way that when the laws are proposed by the MPs, it increases the independence of this institution. I can't think of a chance to wait for the government, whether they'll ever or won't propose a law. When I feel the need to solve things, I'm going to propose a law. It is the right of every MP of the people. I think it increases the independence of this institution and its reputation, that the National Assembly is using this right, and that is why the Constitutional Law gives the right for every MP to propose a law. It's something that's important to this society. Should we wait for the executive authorities? I don't think so. Because maybe the executive authorities won't look at it the way we do. At the same time, I wouldn't be dealing with those aspects that have nothing to do with this law. So I really can't answer the questions that are in the domain of the Minister of Health. As President of Parliament, I support the opening here one day of the topic of health and health care and health insurance and everything that burdens our society. But it's not the subject of this law now. The subject of this law is what we clearly define - the need to solve, it may have been possible through some other system ways, but it would all last much longer, the rights of one part of our population, which during the previous period, these rights were taken away. Because if doctors don't come back, as many say, no one returns either maternity or children, then there's no need to punish institutions because it doesn't happen. Then there's a need for us to provide for the punishment of a fund that doesn't allow it. If the doctors are returning, then everything we've been saying here is not true. We need to define what it is. Either there is a record, so we know that no one in Serbia is being treated, or everyone is being treated privately, or that record exists, and then none of us know how these people in Serbia are being treated, what is their number and how? So we need to figure out what we're thinking. All of this should be left for one comprehensive debate on health insurance, health care and everything else when representatives of the ministry are present. As far as this particular question is concerned, I think everyone has the possibility of getting a relatively easy access to a health book. So the point is, that health book doesn't have to be certified. No one has to work for these categories that we listed, and in the debate we talked about other categories, none of these categories have to worry about whether or not a contribution has been paid for the stamp. That's the point and what we're covering from the Fund. When we discussed that famous PZD, we defined that everyone has the right to a PZD pattern, even those who do not have medical legitimacy, and can get that form that replaces the health book and thus resolves their situation, only with confirmation from the PIO Fund's documentation on the non-dilution of the employer's contributions. So there's more than one way to get rid of this right. We have to have some legality. You can't just walk in from the street and you don't even know who it is, if it's even a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. So there's something that needs to be dealt with by law after all. What I've been trying to do with this bill, I think it's a positive thing and a step forward. I call on all other MPs to get involved in the debate and to make quality contributions and their draft laws, to make amendments, and to try to resolve these issues. At the meeting of the Health Committee, we did not mention these issues, but the DSS parliamentary group proposed five amendments to this law. Some of those amendments I'll accept, especially in the part where punishment is tightened, because I think that's a good thing. We will try to show that the rejection of this law and its non-application will not be tolerated, and so every woman and every one who is a child's legal representative will be able to sue the Fund, and the Fund will find a way to force health institutions, in fact, that has that kind of relationship with them, because it literally charges its services, that these health services are provided in health institutions. I think that's the logical thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27072	National MP Radmila Gerov, two minutes, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27073	I want to thank you for your response, but I really don't think I can agree with you when you say that one of the foreign citizens might. Because all citizens still have ID cards. Thank you for answering that this law will not apply to women and children who have no medical history at all. I don't think that's right, no matter what you say, everyone can get a health book. What's gonna happen to a pregnant woman, a foster mother or a child who forgets her book at home and has to go to a doctor, has an emergency? So that's not gonna apply to them? Many in Serbia do not know in which way they can reach the health book and I believe that if they can be with the untrusted, then it is clear that this right could also happen without a health book.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27074	National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, proposing the act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27075	In consultation with colleagues, there is another way to achieve this right without a health book – with confirmation of the Centre for Social Work. Therefore, other laws provide for ways for everyone to be able to achieve this health insurance, i.e. that, with a particular document, valid legitimacy, they can exercise their right in front of a health institution. In that sense, there's no problem. The problem was that someone who had a medical ID and had not been paid his contributions would not be returned, that is, to the physician who provided him with the treatment, however, would not be in violation. It was the very essence of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27076	The word has a folk MP Sanja Cekovic, followed by Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27077	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, the law that we are considering today, as the promoter himself called it, is the Lex Speciality of the Law on Health Insurance of Children, maternity and pregnant women. Why are we discussing such a law today? What is the reason why the Law on Health Protection and the Constitution in Article 68 has so far not respected and this group of sensitive people has so far been unable to achieve health care? I think we're all aware of that. Health insurance funds in Serbia did not have regular revenues from contributions to health insurance. Health insurance contributions are allocated to the payout of earnings, therefore, personal income of employees in enterprises and in the private and social sectors. The very fact that a large number of companies did not pay health insurance contributions speaks of the fact that even the rights acquired under the previous law have not been realised. The basic question of our parliamentary club is – how are we going to implement this law, how are we going to make peace with health insurance now? Are we going to be able to secure that money in funds? Will we succeed by hiring people in Serbia? Are we going to succeed in better economic and economic activities or are there funds that are worth 500 million, as mentioned in the interpretation of the law, to separate and make funds available? Certainly, such a theme, which today in the Assembly has been supported all morning by all parliamentary groups, cannot define any parliamentary group to vote against, but can ask key questions, and the key question is – where is the money for the application of this law? Why are we covering three categories of population at this point? They are sensitive and we are all very responsible and emotionally bound to those categories of the population. But what about the other categories? When will they be covered by the law and when will everyone in Serbia have a basic right to health insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27078	It was used two minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lučić, followed by a folk letter from Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27079	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Stefanovic, fellow MPs, listening to the presentation, above all, the legislator, but also some other colleagues, I am simply not sure if we have all read the current Health Insurance Act, but what is more important, does the legislator know what the solutions are in the current Health Insurance Act. They are such that children, pregnant women and maternity parents are clearly defined, entitled to health care, regardless of whether they are part of compulsory insurance, or whether contributions are paid for them. That's why I still don't, although I listen carefully to the debate, clear motives why we have today on the agenda a proposal for this law. Not only does the Constitution protect the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and mothers during maternity leave, but it does so in our legal system and the Health Protection Act, Article 11, and as I said, especially the Health Insurance Act. In this law, Article 17 clearly defines those insurance undertakings which, by contributing to the income achieved, have the right to health care, and Article 22 as insurance undertakings are defined, among other things, and those persons who are in the category of socially endangered population if they do not meet the conditions for obtaining the property of insurance undertakings under Article 17 of the Act or if the rights of compulsory health insurance do not come to pass as members of the insurance family. So everything is absolutely clear and precisely defined in the applicable law. Article 22 lists 16 categories of the population that have the property of the insurance company in this way, and points 1 and 2 indicate children up to the age of 18, school children and students until the end of the prescribed schooling period, no later than 26 years of life, women in relation to family planning, as well as during pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood up to 12 months after childbirth. Furthermore, in the current law of Article 204, it has been resolved who finances the health care of these categories of population and explicits that the funds for the payment of contributions to insurance companies listed in Article 22, of all these 16 categories, are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, I would firstly argue that it is not true what is in the light of the bill's proposal, as it states that there is no possibility for children, pregnant women and maternity mothers to be given the right to health care when medical certificates are not certified, and they are not certified when contributions are not paid. I repeat, these categories do not pay contributions, as they are from Article 22 only those who make revenue and who are regulated by Article 17. So that's not true, that first reason the motionary sends us the law in the procedure doesn't stand. Where I would particularly disagree with the part of the reasoning, I quote: "The stated provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the UN Convention are of particular importance during the period of preparation of the Republic of Serbia for EU accession. In this sense, the provisions of this law are part of the fulfilment of the obligations that the Republic of Serbia has towards the European community in terms of special protection for children, pregnant women and maternity mothers." The end of the quote. I really don't know what to say to this part of the bill's reasoning. I can characterise this as a surface, as a speed, non-professionality, but I can't help but say that I feel and offended that as an MP, as a Serbian citizen, this proposal has come to me, where it is said that any question, and especially the rights of children, pregnant women and maternity women, we are dealing with because we have an obligation to the EU. I believe that the promoter didn't mean it, because this is really offensive, a team before our positive legislation fully regulates the health care of these categories when they're not insurance undertakings in terms of compulsory insurance. Why am I saying that I believe that even the promoter thinks that this is simply part of unprofessional writing this argument? Because he himself, when quoted later in a statement on compliance with EU rules, rightly states that the law he proposed should not be harmonised by the SAA, nor by EU rules. Right, neither are there any coded rules. In the EU, there are so-called open methods of coordination in the social sector, where examples of good practice are applied in social and health care, therefore, in the social sector, in the broadest sense, there are no directives, and, as I have pointed out several times, we have this well regulated. I still believe there's some motive for proposing this law. There may be problems somewhere in the application of very good solutions from the existing law. It is possible that it exists, but then, in my opinion, the question is, is it when we don't apply the law, when there are some problems in application, is it a cure for not implementing the law to adopt a new law? I think that possible problems in the application of the current Health Insurance Act could have been resolved by perhaps defining an explicit norm, meaning, by working on the Health Insurance Act itself, perhaps even if the Ministry of Health were to give much more precise instructions for behaviour to the Health Fund, because this seems as if MP Stefanovic had agreed with the Director of the Health Fund, and now everything will be fine. That's really scandalous. In doing so, we are all talking about how categories such as children, pregnant women and foster mothers are very important, ready even to present to the outside, in public, all of us – state, government, society, that we do not have it regulated. It's really inappropriate. What does the law itself say? We have a dozen members in front of us who say that children from 18 years of age, pregnant women and pregnant women, up to 12 months from birth, have the right to medical care, whether or not they have been certified. In other words, this is what is guaranteed by Article 22 of the applicable law. Not exactly the same, though. You see, the current law in Article 22 states that children are not only up to 18 years old, but that they are students until the end of the prescribed schooling, no later than 26 years old and, what is very important, in the current law, it also says that it is the health care of women in relation to family planning, not just pregnant women and maternity parents. What do we do when we spread it all out, you know, with this proposal? We have worse and more restrictive solutions than in the applicable law. I think we all need to be aware of that. Article 3 of MEP Stefanovic's proposal states that children, pregnant women and maternity women exercise the right to health care, regardless of their previous health insurance training, in accordance with the law governing health insurance. You'd say -- well, well maybe there were some problems, maybe it's a solution now, but that's not true. Since these categories of health care rights, under the already existing law, are used on the burden of the Republic budget, rather than on mandatory contributions, the question arises whether this member is at all necessary, i.e. I am of the opinion that in this case it is entirely irrelevant whether there is an insurance internship or not. So Article 3 doesn't even have to exist. The proposed law also discusses the right to compensation for transport costs related to the use of healthcare. It is possible that a member of the 30th law in force is inaccurate, because it explicitly speaks about the costs of transport when it comes to children, not so clearly when it comes to pregnant women and maternity mothers. Maybe there could be some clarification, but not to pass a special law, but to do so under the applicable law. When it comes to law enforcement costs, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, in the context of the bill's proposal, states that there is no need for its implementation to provide additional funding in the budget and that the funds will be provided in the context of positions in the financial plan of the Republic Health Fund. This argument in one hand is true, and in one hand it is not true. In fact, certain funds are transferred from the Republic budget each year to the Fund. It is in all the financial plans of the Fund that the explicit stands for the protection of the categories referred to in Article 22. What is trouble, that these funds are not enough and in that sense this explanation is not true. If we want to enforce the law and this law to be implemented, more resources are needed. In the financial plan for 2011, 2012 and 2013, the Republic budget transferred to the Fund for these purposes 615,048,000 each year. So he didn't raise either for inflation or for consumer price growth. In this regard, noting that extra funds are not needed is simply not true. The only problem with the implementation of Article 22 of the applicable law is missing funds. The promoter has provided for fines if this law is not enforced. I ask the question what happens to other categories covered by Article 22? Who's gonna protect them? Who will threaten their health care with fines? These are, colleagues are already instructions, persons over 65 years of age, persons with disabilities, persons with regard to treatment of HIV, who receive financial social assistance, persons of Roma nationality, victims of domestic violence, victims of human trafficking. It's just some of the 16 categories. Is the solution that, for each of these categories, we here, either of us, direct some law of four, five members, and that such a mass-produced law we finance the real protection of these categories, or that we seriously co-operate between the Ministry and the Fund, and as MPs here to focus our attention on the application of the existing law, to control that application, and when we discuss the 2014 budget, we are asking for greater funds to be transferred from the Republic budget to the Fund, so that we are truly protected, above all, to have access to the health care of the most sensitive categories of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27080	It was used 13 minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, who proposes the act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27081	Of course, you have the right to observe this bill any way you like. I realized from your debate that it was an extremely important form for you. I've had your criticism that way. I think it's more important. I wish you'd worked so hard and so argumentably during the period when your party was in charge and you solved all these problems, that the law was fully applied, that there were no children who lack health care, that all children were provided, that all categories were provided, that there was no question at all for five years, ten years, four years, three, irrelevant, but you didn't. The moment my party is in power I feel I need to do something. I am grateful to all those MPs who will support this work, absolutely expecting to solve some of the problems. Ask those women who can't solve those problems and those cases that were in the media a year ago. They didn't think it was funny, and they couldn't call on Article 22. They couldn't exercise their rights. When I see that someone cannot exercise their rights, I will always strive to help solve it in any way, even if it is through "lex specialis". Do all laws apply well? I'm sure you don't. I'm not an expert in health care, but I'm going to fight while I'm a MP, and when I don't, of course, be, that the rights of children, women, pregnant women and maternity women are the greatest respect in this country. We're going to do everything in our power and the SNS and everyone else who wants to join it, not to ask for reasons and reasons why something isn't done, but to do it. That's the essence of this law. After this law, as we have done with amendments to the Labour Act, as we have done with amendments to the Law on Legal Procedure with legally invisible persons, we have helped to make the situation better than it was and that is the essence of the change that we propose in this law. Of course, who doesn't want to accept it, I expect him to vote against and show that, essentially, he stands pragmatically behind his words. When you say something's wrong, don't vote for it. Don't back it up, because if you vote yes, then all of what's said today as a criticism falls into the water. If you vote against, then you are consistent with your words. Show that you are consistent with your words and vote against and show that you are against this. I couldn't agree more. If you vote yes, then I don't know how to interpret your words, except perhaps as an attempt by the opposition party to criticise something that comes from the ranks of the majority, even if it's good for children, pregnant women and maternity parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27082	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lučić, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27083	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, you said this was about not understanding what the point is, what the form is. For me and the MPs of the DS, the point is whether or not you can realize any rights, not whether or not we're dealing with law-making here. So, in my presentation, I stressed first of all the need to implement the applicable laws, see what the problem is, the problem is the missing funds, in that sense, criticising your argument, that if we want to truly protect these most sensitive categories, we don't need additional funds. The next year's budget includes the transfer from the Republic budget, according to the fund for the first time, so you don't know which funds go to protect this category from Article 22. So every year we knew, there's not much of that funding, but that's 600 and a few million. That's one thing. You, Mr. Stefanovic, have now introduced a party story here. I'll tell you, I'm right now that you've done it, it's possible to qualify as we've done in different ways, but I'm going to tell you, life with SNS doesn't start. Children were born in Serbia, women were going to pregnancy, going to doctors and a third thing, which is very important. I only said one thing. What you're offering already exists. The Democratic Party voted in favour of the current Health Insurance Act. We don't have a problem voting ten times for what we've defined and adopted here. You won't tell me what I'm voting for. I'm just saying that we lost one day today because of demagogy, because we have those solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27084	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, proposing the act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27085	I am glad that people in Serbia could hear that you call this demagogy and I am glad that it is your position, that people can be naked, clearly to hear that the position of your party and you personally are on this issue, that they are children's rights, pregnant women and the birth of demagogy. I'm extremely glad you made that clear. And now that story is completely naked. As for that, of course it doesn't start talking to the SNS, but some should have remembered that earlier when life started with them until the time when they were in power. I say at the moment my party is in power. I'm not waiting to go to the opposition and criticize. I'm not waiting to go to the opposition to remember that someone needed help and protection. I remember that when my party is in power and we take responsibility for why something doesn't work best and we fix it. I expect, of course, everyone else to do it. Of course, I wouldn't dare, nor do I have any idea how anyone's going to vote. They should all do it on behalf of their conscience, but if they said about some law that demagogy, if we'd lost that for him, they certainly wouldn't have voted for that law. Then I would totally devalue everything I said. I only said that in that sense, but thank you for explaining to us what your position is on this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27086	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27087	You know what, everyone can say whatever they want for us. Whether it's a demagogue or not, others will judge. Here's just one question that best breaks the question of demagogy. Mr Stefanovic, how much funding from the republican budget has been allocated to protect the right to access health care for all categories of population under Article 22 of the applicable law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27088	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27089	I can only tell you that the funds are defined to protect the population of the category of laws that I propose, which is my obligation, I know it's about 500,000 dinars and that's my job. When there's a health minister here and there's a budget on the agenda, he'll be able to talk about other categories. I can't talk about it today, but for these categories of population from the bill that's before us it's defined and it's agreed in collaboration with the Health Insurance Fund. I don't know the number in the dinar, but about 500,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27090	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic, and we are closing a circle of replicas here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27091	I'm happy with that answer. In my presentation, I have shown, I hope very convincingly, that you have reduced the rights that already exist when it comes to children, pregnant women and maternity parents, and now you have confessed and that you have reduced resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27092	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27093	Of course, that's not true, because the number you talked about before is the total number of all the categories we talked about. There's only part of those categories here. These are new funds that will be additionally invested in their health care. I understand that someone who doesn't want to see it has the right to say whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27094	With information that it has an additional 500,000 as new funds for these positions, I'm setting a break. The work continues at 15.00 hours. I have an obligation to inform you that according to Article 87, paragraph 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, considering the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We continue at 15.00 hours, the first to be reported is the Parliament of People Zlata Djeric, followed by MP Vladimir Gordic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27095	We have two options, since the president's gonna be a little late, so let's get started. There's a difference that those who want to speak, speak, and those who want to wait for the president, give up their seats. Is that okay? Do you agree? The first in line is Zlata Đeric. Do you want to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, today's bill of law is being watched in the light of an attempt to find a solution in Serbia that will improve the solution to the problem that has been bothering us for a long time, which is the problem of birth. Serbia is the first country in Europe by mortality, the last one by birth. We are one of the oldest nations, and by all indications in the Serbian family, we have 0.88 children in the period in which they are born. Since every five marriages in Serbia are falling apart, we have one significant knowledge that in Serbia, above all, family values are in crisis and that the economic crisis contributes to the collapse or disappearance of society and state. I said I was looking at this law in the light of an attempt to overcome this problem or reduce it. It is not easy and it will not be easy, especially if we know that every year a city dies in Serbia, and if we know by all severe indicators that if we continue like this in 500 years we will disappear biologically. We don't need wars, we won't have anyone to fight wars. New Serbia, as a political party, came out with a platform in 2003 and 2004 elections in time. We called it "One, Two, Three", as an attempt to start something new. What was behind that? It was our political desire to impose some of the priorities in a policy that we represent the interest of increasing the birth rate in Serbia. What is one? Each in Serbia should have its own roof over its head, one house, one apartment, in order to have an elementary economic security on which to base its survival. What's a "two"? Each family should have two secure salaries so that it can plan its future, because that future would certainly be good. And what's "three"? Each family should have three children, or they tend to have three children, because three children are guaranteed, or the tendency, that the birth rate will increase. That's what we tried to demonstrate back then as our own political platform. We have not given up on it, and today is the moment for me to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that my party president, Mr. Velimir Ilic, has just gone out with that platform in his presidential campaign. That's what we all have to insist on. It is the only formula of real economic and any other security that would guarantee Serbia's survival, Serbia's biological survival, is said of it. We will certainly support this legislative proposal in the voting day. There were solutions here. Yes, there are solutions and we have quite a lot of serious legal solutions in social policy as well. Then we came to the point that the problem with implementation is inconsistencies. What we must certainly provide and always support, no matter how many laws there are, is that they function at all times for the benefit of citizens, because it is their sole purpose, that they contribute to the safety of every individual behind it, that they are firmly established institutions, because every citizen invests in this safety and in these institutions and in that state and we, as the highest legislative limit, are obliged to provide it as much as possible. We never have too many well-intentioned solutions. We always greet them. Let them exist, let them exist, and let them be carried out. In this sense, the NS sees a good law in this legislative proposal, and in the voting day we will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27097	The next one would be Vladimir Gordic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27098	I'll wait for the President of the Assembly to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27099	The next is Slavica Savic's folk letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27100	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this law will allow children up to 18 years of age, pregnant and maternity age until one year after the birth of a child to exercise the right to health care and the right to compensation for transport costs in connection with the use of health care on the basis of appropriate medical insurance documents, health books and in cases where it is not certified for compulsory social security contributions. In such cases, in the case of pregnant women and maternity mothers, this proposal also provides for the publication of other necessary documents and this report by the doctor of gynaecology and obstetrics on the established pregnancy and discharge of the health care institution on childbearing. The bill also stipulates the duty of a healthcare institution or specialist doctor to immediately inform the Republic Fund of the pregnancy interruption, the birth of a dead child and the death of a child for up to one year of life. The bill stipulates the obligation of the Republic Fund to provide all scheduled reports to the ministry, which means that the Republic Fund must at any moment have a complete record. In the process of overseeing the implementation of this law, the ministry will warn of observed irregularities, set deadlines and measures for their removal. The ministry is also launching a procedure for determining responsibility. There are also fines for the Republic Fund and a responsible person if they do not allow the exercise of the right under this law, as well as fines for healthcare institutions and healthcare professionals if they do not deliver the necessary reports and notifications. The provisions of this law apply to those categories of persons, regardless of what basis they are secured, if these rights cannot be exercised on the basis of compulsory health insurance. Today, it was said that these rights are an area of basic laws, health care laws and the Health Insurance Act. However, SDPS MPs support the adoption of the bill, which will allow it to be applied immediately after its adoption, following its publication. The path for amendments and additions of two large basic laws, proposed by the ministry, is longer, given the legal and business provisions for the establishment of the draft, or the proposal for a law, when the Government is a proposer. What is basic and what we must manage, and what the legislator of this law clearly said, is that children, pregnant women and mothers enjoy special constitutional legal protection. If the exercise of their rights for any reason is disabled, the State must, without delay, establish a system for their protection. In other words, established obligations by employers to pay contributions and non-compliance with those obligations, which have been tolerated in a long number of years by the state, cannot now be a reason for not providing health care to the persons listed in this bill. The government will inevitably have to systematically resolve this issue, as the right to life and the right to health care is fundamental human rights. The MPs of the SDPS support the adoption of this law and thank the President of the National Assembly, who has seen the shortest way and has proposed a law allowing children, pregnant women and maternity parents to exercise the right to health care and to compensate for the accompanying travel expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27101	The word is made by MP Vladimir Gordic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27102	I would like to say at the very beginning of this presentation that I voted in favour of this law at the committee session, as one of the opportunities to address this problem, namely to achieve the goal that probably all MPs in this Assembly have, which is to provide our children, pregnant women and mothers with full health care. However, I believe that this law, the law proposed by the proposer, is the best way to resolve it. In fact, there is every opportunity for this problem to be fully resolved in the existing legislation and to enable children, pregnant women and mothers to have a certified health book and to exercise their health insurance rights. Namely, the Constitution declares full health care to these categories and says it is realised from public income, unless otherwise enabled. On the other hand, in the Health Insurance Act, other than members who regulate how they are insurance companies, we also have a Article 22 that clearly states that if they fail to regulate their right through other members, they have the possibility to, thanks to Article 22, verify their health books and enjoy all the rights that follow them in health care. In Article 204 of the Law, the funds required for the payment of contributions to these endangered categories are secured through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we can see that in the draft budget for the following year, as well as in the proposals for this year and previous years, that is the sum of some six million dinars provided for in the payment of contributions to provide healthcare for these endangered persons. Therefore, if we have a child who has an untrusted book because his parents do not receive a salary or their employer has not paid a contribution to health care, there is a possibility that through Article 22 they will all be provided. Therefore, I believe that this is a far better solution than the law proposed by the proposer, because in the law he proposes, we have a situation where children, pregnant women and maternity women will likely have untrusted health books. I think this is one populist way to achieve the goal that was wanted by this law, which we are all seeking and that is one ugly way to maybe start a campaign for a possible future mayor of Belgrade. I think it is entirely possible to regulate within the existing legislative regulations all of these problems simply by denying one recommendation from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Health and the Republic Fund, which is that all those insurance companies who have not been paid a contribution by the employer are not certified by health books. Therefore, I would like to appeal to this occasion to the President of the Assembly, who is the legislator of this law, to stop populism and finally start doing something in the interest of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27103	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27104	Unfortunately, I wish I could agree with you on anything, but mostly I can't, since you're wrong. Namely, let's get this story straight about the Health Insurance Act once and for all. Article 22 provides for health insurance for certain categories, but Article 17 and Article 30 define that certain categories, such as agricultural producers, are entitled to health insurance only when a member of the 30th law is concerned, provided that a contribution for health insurance has been made. What about, say, the farmer's kid? On what basis can a member of the law protect a farmer's child? Tell me on the basis of which member of the law. Since it's not there, then we, I, when I proposed this law, I wanted to make it possible, and it will in fact be the main contribution of this law, that every child, pregnant and maternity, who, according to the Health Insurance Act, are not entitled to full protection now. It's not populism. After all, I am sorry that your party did not contribute in the previous period that we do not have to talk about this law at all from today. If you had dealt with it essentially earlier, we would have talked about other things perfectly today. As for pulsism, I didn't pet Gutu pigeons, I didn't pet dogs and kittens in Belgrade, I didn't run in maternity homes and try to take a cheap political point. Some others did, and they know the citizens of Belgrade who did it. It was populist, it was what the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia would never support again, and you will see it in the first next elections in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27105	Vladimir Gordic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27106	Article 22 clearly states that if compulsory health insurance rights are not implemented as a member of the insurance family, the insurance companies are considered, so they are listed – children up to the age of 18, school children, students, etc., women in relation to family planning, as well as during pregnancy, childbirth and maternity, persons over 65 years of age, persons with disabilities, etc. Therefore, according to this article, they can be secured. He can't be a hostage child of an employer who doesn't pay for health insurance or a farmer who hasn't paid for health insurance. If we've already defined that children are our future. This is really on your side of the big pulsism. I'm under the impression that you haven't even read the existing legislation when you proposed this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27107	The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27108	I'm referring to article 17. Of course he can't be a hostage and he'll never be when this law is passed, not a child, not a pregnant woman, not a foster mother. I am sorry that Article 17 of a particular category provides that they are secured on the basis of a working relationship. The law stipulates that some categories of our population are secured by working relationships. Therefore, farmers did not pay contributions, had no money to pay contributions, and therefore his wife and his child could get into trouble because they are insurance companies based on working relationships. Under this law, they won't have a problem. So this law decides that they don't have the problem they've had so far, and people happen to have a problem. Look at what's been going on in Serbia in the last few years. If these people hadn't had a problem, if they hadn't come into conflict with various bureaucratic elements, we wouldn't have talked about this issue today, but the problem is real, life-threatening, whether it's written in some letter of paper or not. We're dealing with this problem now, and once we get rid of it, those people won't have it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27109	I ask the People's Messengers not to react loudly, that they do not receive, for it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The Republic has a National MP, Vladimir Gordic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27110	I don't think you're right because Article 17 regulates those insurance companies who work, who are employed, who receive salaries or are paid contributions to them. However, if a child cannot achieve health care in this way, through his parents who do not receive or receive a salary, it has the full right under Article 22, which is clearly defined here, to exercise that right. The second thing, what is unimpeached, the Constitution guarantees him mandatory health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27111	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27112	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the theme of the past is being opened here, the situation that the previous Government left in 2012 in the field of child health, pregnant women and their health is much better than the situation found in 2000, when this socially sensitive category was owed 24 children's supplements and where you bestowed that policy. We have no problem voting ten times for the laws we've already voted for, it's the smallest problem for the DS. We have no problem voting for those laws that have already been passed and which are already being applied. If it'll calm someone's conscience because you missed voting for those laws when they were in congregation procedure, we support you in that. If this will calm your conscience because of your political action or inaction, I will support you and I will tell you – okay, suggest a law that already exists. On the side which is also a member of the Constitution 68, which says that everyone has the right to protect physical and mental health and that children, pregnant women and mothers during maternity leave, single parents with children by the age of seven and the elderly receive health care from public incomes. If this is the start of a campaign for mayor Belgrade, I welcome it. It's your legitimate right. You are also the president of the Assembly and you have the right to run with various political topics, but in Belgrade you knock on this subject at an open door. There is no order in Serbia to protect women, pregnant women and children as in the city of Belgrade. That's where it got the most far away. This is like the Bible, everyone has the right to receive their salary, and those who came in the first hour, as well as those who came in the eleventh hour. We from the DS are not angry that the salaries of those who came in the eleventh hour will be the same as the wages of those who came in the first hour. Just let the deluded sons come to their European home, on the European path, we are absolutely in agreement and we will vote for this law, at least I, if it will calm someone's conscience because of what he missed in the earlier political action. But when we talk about this law, I want to tell you that there are cities in Serbia that today threaten pregnant women to leave the DS board club and join the SNS board club. You who say, "O," that's what happens in Despotovac. Don't make me your former party colleague and friend, the ones with the badge, because I'm not. But if you want to, the mayor's candidate is not petting dogs and cats, but his dead dog, his pregnant wife, is putting him in front of the door to warn him not to run. Don't worry about pregnant women like that. In the end, since this is going to be more serious about my colleagues and colleagues who are dealing with this problem, I'm just going to tell you one thing. If you want to take care of pregnant women, and you don't want to wait for the government to remember for a year, two, three or five to pass a law on the right to protect children and pregnant women and maternity women, come to Triestenik. Here, I invite a colleague from Vranjska Banja to come to Trstenik too. That's where the SNS gave the investigative right to seek nickel. Do you know how a nickel will endanger the health of children, pregnant women and maternity mothers? The exploration of nickels in Triestenik will also show how this government is indeed taking care of the health of the nation. There is no dirtier technology, and I ask that, when it comes to this law, you do not return us to the field of the past. There is nothing in the field of the past but different memories and roles in the same tragedy, which should neither be called upon nor forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27113	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27114	I'm reporting for an officer. 106, 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure. I think you, Mr. Chairman, have broken the Rules of Procedure several times. First because the previous speaker has been speaking all the time, even though he said that many others have much smarter things to say, he spoke directly to someone in the O.R., and you know that he has no right to do so, but to you as chairman. Second, there was talk of Karavukov, there were talk of many other things. We can also talk about the Mladenovic, we can talk about things like that, we can talk about mandates that have crossed motivation and come to the DS side. We can talk about everything, but I can't accept the fact that the SNS has given investigative rights. The Serbian Progressive Party is a political organisation that cannot do such things with neither the Constitution nor the law. That's why we don't mix grandmothers and frogs and use this most legislative body here for these kinds of tirads. I would ask that anyone who goes back in time and who uses every moment in this room to go back in time, I think that one day we can see some people around the National Assembly building wearing some pictures, some TVs or I don't know what. We're talking about the future here. We are here saying that every child in Serbia will be entitled, every pregnant woman, every foster child will be entitled to free treatment. It's a basic human right. They can't be full of mouths of the future, full of children's mouths without doing anything for them. This is one step towards Serbia's future and work, and I ask you to introduce this debate into normal flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27115	Just one little comment. Whoever's using this bill of law to be used by making political views, I don't think they get anything from it, on the contrary. To tell you the truth, that's why I kept my mouth shut. If anyone tries to abuse this law for any other purpose, let them serve him honor, everyone. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27116	Dear Chairman, I think you've injured Article 107, or the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't think it's yours to assess whether any subject is in some way misused for political purposes. Personally, I believe this law is a couple of excelent examples of the use of children for political purposes, i.e. the use of... Mr. President, please don't throw away while I speak. Chairman, can you provide me with an explanation of why you hurt the Rules of Procedure? So, the head of the SNS parliamentary group in his speech, which is why I am advertising the Rules of Procedure, referred to the fact that the DS MP was talking about something that happened these days, which is that the domestic animal, the pet, was killed and thrown at the door of a potential candidate for the president of the Odjaks municipality, and before that, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had said that we had anointed puppies and kittens. Yeah, we used to pet dogs and kittens, but we didn't kill dogs and kittens. And it is a serious problem of this system – that no such behaviour should be condemned and that no one should answer about it, and that is the fact that has happened. Try using your party bodies in Odjac to check if it happened, if your former party member was doing this, I can't even repeat, a disgusting act that is characterized by regimes that we wouldn't like to go back to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27117	Mr. Veselinovic, it wasn't my attempt at all to appreciate what anyone wanted to say. But, please, if you're already advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, try to stick to it. Are you aware that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, because you have replicated Babic, who has also come out of the Rules of Procedure? It's the easiest thing for me to say to you. But you ask someone else to behave, and you don't act like it yourself, throw each other away -- that's not how you can do it. You may ask that in the voting day we make a statement about whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken. (No) The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27118	You've largely said in one sentence what I wanted. I didn't realize it perhaps at the beginning of this debate, but now I realize that there are MPs in this House who look at everything through party policy. I'm sorry about that. I'm sorry about one debate that was very good and very good and that they supported, I always pointed it out at the beginning but I won't do it anymore, obviously this law doesn't support all MPs and not all MPs support it. That's what to say. That's what citizens need to know, who supports and who doesn't support, who's trying to build cheap political points on this law as well. And today, the citizens of Serbia see it clearly. If it hadn't been for trouble, if children, pregnant women and maternity had not had problems in the previous period with many things, we might not be discussing this law today. But since they had problems, we tried to solve this. This law is also when we had it on the Health Committee, and I am very pleased about it. However, I am glad to see that it is difficult for some people to support something good that comes from another parliamentary group. And that's where the big conspiracies, election campaigns, candidacys, etc. are seen. I am sorry about that, because all the MPs in the assembly, even when they were members of the government, could change those laws more quickly and efficiently. I am sorry that today they do not see it as their right to speak of it in a positive way and I am sorry that they do not recognize that there are certain categories of our society that have not had adequate protection in accordance with the laws that have been passed in the past. It just happens. It wasn't all the way the legislator might have wanted, and maybe something was missed. If we were to look a little bit more seriously, if we were to look at ourselves from the position that we're doing something to make these people better, to help them, where anyone involved in this defense can take part of the loan, after all, when we vote for it, all those who vote "yes" are equally responsible, because I can't vote this law in the National Assembly, as much as I'm proposing. I'm sorry that many people don't see it that way, or at least some of them, and that they're trying to turn this law into political competition. I don't want any part of it. I want to talk about the law, I want to talk about how further laws and public debates are to improve the health status of people in this country, how that they don't have tomorrow, how we work to make Serbia and its citizens better, and not any political party, and those who see it as a polygon for an opportunity to make a point by party or to put themselves in touch with someone who's petting Gutu, I really can't help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27119	The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27120	Dear Mr. Stefanovic, we have no problem supporting or voting for this law. We just told you what our vote would be. It will be a vote for something we have already adopted, which we have voted on. We will vote in the voting day for something the previous Assembly adopted, which you should have only applied. You are, because you are not able, or your government to apply what you have, because you brought the country before bankruptcy and because you have incompetent ministers, from the finance minister, the economy, to the health minister, you bring to the MPs such laws as are populist. We did not need a law to define what a child is, so Article 1 of this Law states: “A child in the sense of this law is considered a person until the age of 18. ” Who doesn't know? Who doesn't know that when you're 18, you get to be a adult? Is that why we were supposed to meet here today? That maybe we shouldn't have talked about how to amend the Law on Public Procurement so as to enable repairs of machines that don't work in children's hospitals and that's why children can't even be treated from haemophilia, Mr. Stefanovic? Isn't that what we were supposed to talk about, not a pigeon named Guta? You were the first to mention the client, SNS. We have spoken with great argument and disproved your efforts to say that this is news. This is no news, nor will these children and foster parents get anything new. That's the fundamental difference. We'll vote for this bill if you claim to need it, that you need our support, but we say we won't get anything new with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27121	Time, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27122	Mr. Chairman, please pay attention to what I'm about to say. I choose my words very carefully so as not to challenge the replica. I do not mention any MPs, no MP group, nor does my debate directly refer to what one of the previous speakers said. The fact that someone can't stand the fact that certain personalities petted Gutu pigeons, that's another thing now, but it wasn't pulsism at the time. When they were also set in Belgrade, and there were some, I could now tell you about how they were running, it was a race from maternity to maternity, and they weren't better photographed and who in the first second would arrive to take a picture with some baby they weren't taking some cheap political point. Of course, there was, I could say 38 billion reasons why it was done, but some of those reasons why we don't have organized health care today that money was wastelessly, that was spent on corruption. Which is what King Alexander's boulevard instead of a billion in a hundred million were reconstructed by a billion and seven hundred million. That was one of the reasons why we don't have any money today. Because money was being thrown away and it was disappearing in different pockets and in different, let's say, corruption affairs. But in this case in particular, I don't see that everyone supports this law. It's important to me to point out because obviously someone wants to be both for and against the law, which is absolutely impossible. Either you support him and you say you favour the law because he is good for Serbian citizens or he is not good for Serbian citizens and you do not want to support him. It's impossible for both of us. It's populism when you want to be critics, but you don't want to be afraid of public reaction to say you're against it. It's populism. It needs to be open and clear. Either you're in or you're against it. After all, in the voting day, it will be very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27123	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27124	You have injured the Rules of Procedure in 106, 103, and some other members. So you let Mr. Stefanovic talk off the subject that's on the agenda. So, here on the agenda is not the Boulevard of the Revolution, or the Boulevard of King Alexander, or the pigeon of Gut, I really don't know who's petting the pigeon, the pigeon mostly flies, but it might have been, too. But that's not the subject of the agenda, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27125	Please don't talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27126	Please chair that you have the same criteria. You warned us that we were past the subject, and the authorized representative is talking about the reconstruction of the Bulevar Revolution. Imagine if we were told at every session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about the state of municipal problems in Novi Sad, or in places where we were not in power. We've never done that before. There is almost a day that the SNS parliamentary group is not talking about municipal issues in Belgrade and Belgrade's problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27127	What's that all about injuring the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27128	Because he was talking off topic. I argue that this topic can be discussed at the Belgrade City Assembly, not in the Serbian Parliament, if that is not on the agenda, let's say some credit that could be in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27129	Mr. Vesenović, you forgot what you discussed when you spoke about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you mentioned the Law on Public Procurement, Tirshova, etc. So you simply used your own replica through the breach of the Rules of Procedure to give you adequate answers. So take care of what you say, and ask others. You can come forward in the voting day if you want. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27130	I'd like to point to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The MP has the right to use the replica when mentioned, as I have repeatedly been mentioned by name and last name, and in his address he has the right to defend his position in the way he has the right to defend him. I only ask you, in future, to use your right as chairman of the National Assembly to express disciplinary measures to those MPs who, through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, want to make the work of this assembly, who wants to abuse it more difficult, means the right to violate the Rules of Procedure and use the right to breach the Rules of Procedure as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27131	Mr. Stefanovic, you still have to trust me as I chair and everyone has their own criteria, let me do my own criteria. I fully respect that sometimes people cross the line to say, and they deserve a warning, but I'm a little more tolerant in that sense and I'm avoiding the limits. In that sense, I believe you understand me, too. You can be as clear as anyone else to ask us to plead, not ask, well. Veroljub Arsic, you have no basis. Please don't. As your Rules of Procedure, don't go past the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27132	Mr. Chairman, because under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, if the MP is offended or incorrectly interpreted, has the right to speak to an MP who has been appointed, has the right to speak to the head of the Parliament club if he wishes, and here I was, means words and mentions of the Public Procurement Act, so since I was the authorised representative of the Proposer under the Public Procurement Act, which many here are thorns in the eye, and that this law or indirectly I was placed in the context that because of the Law on Public Procurement, medical institutions cannot lay down children. If that's the case, then when it comes to the law, and we pass laws, if some law is not respected, or if someone can't respect it, it's not the law, it's the law that enforces it. Every time someone attacks the Law on Public Procurement, on which both the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, and the World Bank and other international financial institutions, who said the law is good, then when they attack it I ask the question – is this done for the political promotion of their party or for the purpose of corruption, affairs and those who offer bribery to take their goods or services from the citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27133	Mr. Arsic, I think you're also aware that you've hurt the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. There's the head of your MP club, he if that party has the right to advertise and in that sense because, regardless of what you were proposing the Public Procurement Act, I don't see that they called you, but it was called through the Public Procurement Act the whole position that voted for the law. I don't see your personal responsibility, you just voted, and as much as you're responsible, I feel the same way, I didn't realize that you were called in that sense. I ask you to help me and not abuse the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure and replicate it. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27134	Mr. Chairman, I really must point out to you that in the most cruel way possible you have injured a 107 member and humiliated the real dignity of this institution. For what? You allowed the previous speaker all the time knowing that he had no basis to speak, you gave him a word without any reason to give him a word you allowed him to finish his presentation even though he had no basis to speak so that you would finally give him a lesson. So, if you want to respect the Rules of Procedure, and you are obliged to respect it, so I invite you to be a member of the 106th, you are responsible for the work of this Parliament as long as you chair it. It's inadmissible to give someone a word knowing there's no basis to get the word. Let him speak all the time without any basis, and then finally give some kind of lesson. If our opposition MP had done so, I'm sure you'd break his notice and take away his word. So that's what you had to do to warn him to take his word. Of course, before that you should not have given him a word at all, for he should not have received a word under this Rules of Procedure. If you want this debate to run in a normal manner, if you want to maintain order in this Assembly on a subject that we consider important, but that abuse is a proposing rather than one that points to the abuse of this topic, then please, above all, respect the Rules of Procedure and have a uniform criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27135	I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundjia, that you didn't follow the course of the session at that time. I'm Mr. Arsic, if you've noticed, you've given your word based on advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you haven't noticed, I'm sorry, but I also used it afterwards to abuse the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm obliged to give anyone a word asking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and on that basis I gave it to him. If you'd like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. No, you're giving up. ) The word has a National MP, Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27136	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, what you have suggested is nothing new. The main concern for these categories of population is to improve the quality of protection of endangered categories of inhabitants. What about the disabled and the old faces? Article 1 of your law tells us that children, pregnant women and maternity women are entitled to health care, whether or not these rights can be exercised on the basis of compulsory health insurance, and that they have the right to compensation for transport costs in connection with the use of healthcare. Article 22 of the applicable health insurance law states that these persons are considered insurance because they belong to a population group exposed to an increased risk of disease. The existing law even covers a wider circle of faces, thus covering not only children under the age of 18, but also school children and students until the age of 26. Not only pregnant women and maternity mothers, but also women about family planning. We voted in favour of the first draft of the 2005 law, as well as at the time when we led the Government's amendments and additions. Why is this law, you'll get angry, demagogue? Because I've been looking at the comments since you've been passing the law. Way to go, Nasho, master. Bravo, bravo, you're the only one who cares about us, about pregnant women, about children and everything else. Read the comments after your press conference. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, girls in Serbia today opt for offspring only at the end of the third decade. The average cousin today is 27.2 years old, while in the '60s she was 23. A large number of women, after determining pregnancy by a gynecologist, do not want to go back to work. The reasons are, as doctors prescribe, medical nature, but reality says that poor working conditions, unprofessional relationships with colleagues in a different state, especially by the superiors, are the real reason for opening up the sick. One of the ideas that defines the EU is the composition of social support. The belief that the state is responsible for taking care of its citizens has spread across all Member States and has become a kind of common culture equated in the opinion of 27 countries. Here's what that concern looks like in Denmark. Students who regularly study can live in a married or out - of - wedlock community and have children, even though they do not have a job. Supporting the family was provided thanks to the support of the Danish government. All regular students can attend full free of charge and receive a monthly scholarship of more than 800 euros per month. It is not enough just to stand up for European values, not understand them. Of course, I will support this law, because you respect us all the time if we have objections to legal solutions that we shouldn't even vote for this law. As we voted for amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, we will also vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27137	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27138	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, I certainly congratulate the promoter for being able to today, using his right to the President of the Assembly and the ruling majority, put this law on the agenda, because he managed to show citizens and citizens that he cared about births, pregnant women and children and gave us the opportunity for all of us to join in and say that we are all concerned. My colleagues and colleagues, who I very respect, spoke today in the afternoon section of the Assembly about how everyone deserves this right, talked about health insurance, talked about the need for Serbia's birthright to be greater. I'm behind everything they said. I have to tell you that until she started her speech, I thought there was something wrong with me, that I was the only one who was misreading all these laws that I had in front of me. I have to admit, I've been checking it out with other colleagues. Is it possible that I misread all applicable laws in this area? No, of course not. I'll say very clearly, this right exists. This right exists in our legal system. Has it always been celebrated? Probably not, and it's good to talk about why not today. It would make sense that today we have raised the question of why the rights of the positive laws are not applied in practice in public hearing or committee sessions. Why does the Republic Institute not apply in practice the right of all children, pregnant women, women in relation to family planning and 20 other categories to exercise their full right in health care? I have an obligation to say that my MP group will support this law. It is the same as asking us if we would support a law that defines all citizens to have the right to free air or whether all citizens of Serbia have the right to walk free on the street. That doesn't prohibit them from any law. Yes, you must support such a law, you cannot be against it. Personally, I mean, for me, this law has a placebo effect. It is a known effect in medicine, pharmacies, possibly psychology, etc., when you give the patient one substance that essentially has no activity, and he can believe that it will benefit him. Some psychologists or doctors think it's good, it can't hurt, it won't help, and it can't hurt, so it's okay, maybe an autosuppression will have some positive effect. I am personally against such substances, because I believe that they in some way die the personal forces to fight some disease. I think that's what's going on in the assembly today. The congregation has a supervisory role to play. The assembly needs to launch its supervisory role and it does not do so to a sufficient extent. Serbia's problem is that a large number of laws are passed, a large number of these laws do not find their application and makes citizens unsatisfactory. Therefore, the Assembly should call upon the executive authority and invite all institutions that do not apply the laws and force them to apply the laws. As a result, the Assembly should not be put to death by passing new laws, if such laws already exist. Of course, this is absolutely no political discussion in any negative sense. I want to explain my views, because I have before me all the laws that regulate this area. The Health Protection Act clearly says that there is a special social concern for health at the level of the Republic of Serbia, and it defines in its Article 11, which are categories that are particularly protected by this social concern. It defines and lists these 16 categories of population that are particularly protected in the context of social care for health. Article 12 makes it clear that, if the law is not otherwise regulated, the funds for the achievement of healthcare under Article 11 of this Law are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and transferred to the compulsory health insurance organisation. In order to further specify the Health Insurance Act introduces Article 22, which states, among other things, if insurance companies do not meet the conditions for obtaining the property of insurance companies under Article 17 of this Act, and Article 17 defines that insurance companies are those for whom health insurance is paid on different grounds, and do not qualify as members of the insurance family, then they are considered as being insured, as being paid insurance, and these are: children up to 18 years old, women in connection with family planning, persons over 65 years old, persons with disabilities, persons with special illnesses, diabetes, HIV, rare diseases, etc., monks and nuns, materially unsecured persons, users of permanent financial assistance, unemployed persons, persons of Roma nationality, victims of violence in the family, trafficking of human beings, preventive checks, single parents who have up to seven years of life, etc. They're all insurance. They have the right to health care. Anyone who interprets these laws differently is in great error and violates the law. Please, let's really clear this up and read these laws properly. The Republic Fund, if it didn't allow rights, and it didn't, some people would be treated under this law and should be held accountable for it. The Republic Fund also adopted the Health Book Regulations, as we call it popular, and they're called health legislation, formally. For the purposes of this Regulation, it shall define an over-the-counter health certificate, among other things, to define an over-the-counter health book for insurance companies referred to in Article 22. The health insurance law, so all of these categories I've read. By its rule, the Republic Fund says that they are obliged to verify the health books of all these persons. So they're required to verify and define how many months they're certified by, and so on. So they can all have certified books. Why don't they have certified books? That's the question we need to ask the Republic Fund. That's why I, ladies and gentlemen, am really very confused. What does the Republic Fund say about this law and what does the Ministry of Health say? How can they say – that this law is necessary, if their laws, their rules define the right of all these people to be users of the health system to a full extent, which these laws provide for them? If things were worse, I'd say, I'd be comical if it wasn't tragic, we're only getting the government's opinion on this law today, when the debate on it has already begun. The government says that the government is calling, proposing that the law be adopted as a whole, and respecting the need to regulate the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women, who in other ways cannot exercise the right to compulsory health insurance due to the failure to pay contributions. Honorable members of the government, Minister of Health, Prime Minister, I ask you what rights cannot be fulfilled if the law, as I said, regulates that these rights exist? Is it really possible, ladies and gentlemen, that the government doesn't know what its laws are and how to interpret them? If we argue about the interpretation of the law, let's sit down and talk about it. I think we're all in a very awkward situation today to discuss this, to conduct some political discussions, to accuse each other, to abuse children and pregnant women. Of course not. But I'm asking you, should I propose a law tomorrow that will ensure the possibility of using diabetic health care? There are many children among diabetics, a large number of patients, some of whom do not have health insurance. Do I have to propose that law? Will you all support him? You'll support him. You'll say it's good. But that right already exists, as for people with disabilities we should not pass a special law. They have the right to all of this. Single parents with children under seven are right. It just seems to me that we shouldn't go further into situations like this and that we should discuss how to make the health system functional. Yeah, they have the right to all these people to verify health books. But what's the problem? You've got an estimate of $500,000 that's necessary, I don't know what. Do we know exactly how many pregnant women there are, how many children are unsecured on other grounds? Based on what was the estimate of $500,000? What I know as a result is that the budget takes 25 billion dinars a year to ensure that the rights of all these 20 categories of people that exist in the health system are realised because the Fund has no payment for them. We have to pay for them, all of us, the state that guarantees it. That's why 25 billion dinars should be paid out of the budget. My party had a responsibility in the area of finance. Now there's someone else. There's no 25 billion dinars in this country to pay for that insurance. How much is he paying? Six million. What's gonna happen? The Health Insurance Fund's going down. What does that mean? The collapse of the health care system. No money for drugs, no money for treatment abroad, no money for appliances, no money for health care. The health system is collapsing. Then all those who have the right to health care don't essentially get that health care. So we stand for one fundamental serious debate about what we want from the health system, where we go and how we reform it. As we are today faced with very difficult measures in the area of economy, as we are faced with very difficult measures that must be taken in the area of reform of the pension system, we must also reach some consensus on how we will stabilise the health system in order to get all health care. This is the real question that will provide quality health care to the patient, and also, on the other hand, smooth work for all those working in the health care system. It's not a solution to cut the wages to doctors, to declare them to someone who doesn't give the right to patients, to say they're corrupt. It's not the solution, because doctors are neither administration nor the burden of the state nor the health of the goods. Health is a vital resource of society and society can neither progress nor develop, nor have economic prosperity unless it has health. That is why, in my view, it is a fundamental question and it is a question that we should seriously and responsibly deal with as a society, not only as politicians, the Assembly or the Health Insurance Fund. It's a question that is at the heart of the debate that we're supposed to be having today, not arguing about something that already exists as a basis. I just haven't added this yet. There's already a criminal policy. Therefore, penalties are also provided for those who do not provide for this right, so the criminal provision states, for example, the Health Insurance Act, that a fine of 300,000 to 1,000 dinars will punish that health care institution that does not provide health care or an insured person does not provide health care which is the right of compulsory health insurance, etc. So we've already got criminal provisions. In my view, it is much better to deal with the full application of all the laws that are passed in the congregation, for we can bring countless in one year or during one term unless we are able to provide them with their application. This is what I always stood for. In the Serbian Parliament, there is also a Committee on the Rights of the Child, chaired by the President of the Assembly, and I think it was the right place to invite representatives of the Republic Fund and the Ministry of Health and ask why they do not provide this right to all, but to now pass a new law which, I repeat, represents one placebo effect and essentially brings nothing new, but will not harm either. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27139	The president of the Parliament Nebojsa Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27140	I really won't allow the devalue of the effect this law will produce among Serbian citizens and what I will do to further protect a part of the population that does not have protection. Namely, you can acquire the right to health insurance on two grounds. You can be in a working relationship, you can be employed and this right is achieved in different ways, which precisely defines Article 17. Health insurance laws. While you're in that category, you can't go to Article 22 while you're employed. You cannot use the right referred to in Article 22 as an employee because you are employed, whether you are a farmer or working in a factory. If a person does not pay contributions while being employed, which is regulated by Article 17 and cannot exercise the right of Article 22, he has no right to health insurance with an untrusted book. It's what's simple. By this law, those people who belong to the category of persons employed who are defined in Article 17. The health care law, these people today, whether their book is certified or untrusted, go to a doctor normally and exercise their rights, is the essence, not the categories that are already covered by Article 22, because someone who is employed does not have the right to use the statute of an unemployed person. The law clearly defines that, according to Article 30, this right is exercised only if contributions are paid. If the contributions were not paid, he had no right to do so so far. He couldn't make it happen. From today on, that is, from the day of adoption of this law, we have made it possible for that category of persons to benefit from this right, and that is very clear. Practice in previous years has shown that such people have been and that was the trigger for why this law is being adopted. This is no placebo effect. This is solving one problem that's real, that exists. When previous ministers had the opportunity to manage this ministry, I wish they'd solved these problems faster and more effectively, but they didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27141	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27142	I can agree with you that previous ministers have not solved all health problems. I don't have any problem with that, but I'm asking you who says what you said? Who's interpreting that? I've been in the congregation long enough to be able to read the laws and no one can convince me otherwise, except maybe some court that has jurisdiction to give this interpretation, and the interpretation is actually competent to give up the Assembly. Article 22 says that insurance is considered by those who are not insured in another way and write children... Who says they have no rights? Who says that a child of someone who is employed, who is not paid for, can't be secured by Article 22 just because he's a child? Who says that? Whoever says that is wrongly interpreting the law. Let's face these interpretations. To be clear, laws are often misread. Is wrong interpretation of the law supposed to make a new law? Well, then we'll have five billion laws. So who interpreted you that way? Is that what you have in writing?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27143	The word is Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27144	Well, as you don't have in writing, I don't have to have any, but only if, for reasons of misreading, there's grounds for this law to be passed today, that such an interpretation never happens again. Here, now I'm going to read it correctly and accurately, here, so people can hear what a member of the law reads. Article 22(1): ‘... if they do not meet the conditions for obtaining the characteristics of the insurance company referred to in Article 17 of this Act, where employed persons are defined.’; Those who are employed meet the conditions laid down in Article 17 of the Law. They meet the conditions. The fact that the employer does not pay contributions does not classify them in the following category. He just doesn't meet what a member of the law says. At that moment you belong to the category of employees, which has certain rights defined by Article 17 and Article 30 which says that you must have paid contributions, and on the other hand, you cannot use them, because the employer does not pay you and the contributions and you are there somewhere in between. You're not unemployed, you're not a child, you're not a particularly protected category of women, a woman who's employed. The woman who's employed is obliged to have a certified health book. That's what the law says. If she's not there, she can't use her rights. That's a very precise definition. The farmer's wife, who works all her life in agriculture, comes, has no certified health book, comes to the doctor and they say – excuse me, why is your health book not certified, you're employed? You're not unemployed. She says - I'm sorry, I didn't have the money to pay my contributions or - I didn't know, I thought the employer was giving me a neat payment. At that point, no other member of the law, and show me where it says it's the opposite, doesn't move to the next category, because the law clearly says - who hasn't acquired the right from Article 17. She's earned the right to be employed. She can quit her job, become unemployed, go to the Bureau and then get the right from Article 22. But if she wants a woman, which is normal, to stay employed, she has to use the rights of Article 17. The moment the employer didn't pay his contributions, she de facto can't use those rights. Now, by adopting this law, we solve this problem and this case, even if it's a bad interpretation, we have a problem that we're going to solve.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27145	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27146	Thank you. This is really the last time, because I appreciate that Mr. Stefanovic is really talking to the arguments and I want to keep that discussion in that sense. I can agree with part of Mr. Stefanovic's explanation. It's possible such an interpretation. That's right. You're probably right that such an interpretation is possible. I believe that such an interpretation is not true and that it is not good, and so is the Protector of the rights of citizens, who interpreted children as being violated by law. Suppose he knows something about laws, too. In any case, we can agree that there is a dilemma about the interpretation of these laws, and I am sure that this issue can be resolved and could be resolved by making any rule or decision, or some lower rank legal act that would precisely define and give the interpretation of this law and thus make all of this possible. So, simply if someone misreads the law, and I think it misreads it, I think it could have been overcome in another way. But like I said, it's okay, we don't mind, we'll vote for this law. I'm glad the discussion stays on this level.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27147	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27148	I just want one amendment to the agricultural producers. Their books are certified when they pay taxes, but it's the same thing. If they don't pay taxes, they didn't have the right to health insurance until this law was passed. As far as this law is concerned, here, I have a health book in front of me. There is one section here, since you are obliged to have a health book, except for those categories of population that has a different kind of legitimacy, i.e. the means with which they come to health institutions – the basis of insurance. It says 1010 employees. You come with this health book, they say 1010 employees. Which member of the law applies to you, 17 or 22, for employees? Article 17. It says 1010 - employees. It doesn't say - employees' faces, but whose employer may not have paid at this point, so they've moved to 22, but maybe if they're paid again, they're crossing... No, it clearly says 1010 — employed persons, article 17. They look here and say, "There is no stamp. I'm sorry, your medical book isn't certified. Thank you very much and goodbye. “ This is the case that happened. By adopting this law, no matter what it says to you here, no matter what mark or mark, it has or doesn't have, you have the right to have health care and thus solve the problem for a large or small number of inhabitants of this country who could not do so. I'm telling you clearly, it says here: The base of insurance - employees' faces. From that moment on, you are referred to by Article 17 and cannot possibly be referred to as Article 22. You can put yourself on your head and interpret yourself any way you want, member of the 17 employees. An employee cannot exercise his right in accordance with Article 30 if health insurance is not paid. It was that catch and that problem that was problematic. That's what was problematic about passing this law. I'm ready to pick up by tomorrow morning. I'm fine. So, no matter how many hours it takes to discuss this, to repeat another 1,000 times, I'm going to repeat this 20,000 times, because this is what's true and this is the only interpretation of the law, because when it says the insurance base of 1010 employees, you can't apply to employees something that doesn't apply to employees, because you've acquired insurance only on the basis of what you're employed. (Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27149	Mrs. Plassic, I don't think you're going to be able to resolve your differences here. Those differences will be resolved by voting, but here, I'll give you this right to reply. He's really losing more sense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27150	Well, I think so, too. That's why I made this contribution by saying I wouldn't answer again, but you now watch who you last give the word to and how long it can last. I really don't want to take part in this any further, but Mr. Stefanovic says he wants to pick up by morning. I really don't want to talk about it that way, and I don't want to hear from you until morning. But, sir, are you interpreting the law based on the medical book? So what it says in the health book is about how the law interprets the Republic Health Insurance Fund. He's misreading it. That book, whether it's red, blue or white, doesn't say anything about the law behind it, please. So I can't accept that argument. There's something else in that book. What the book says depends on how the law is interpreted, and the law is misread, and I stand behind it, and you can't convince me that it's different. If there is an incorrect interpretation of the law, it must be changed at lower levels. It's not the Assembly's place to pass a new law on the interpretation of the law. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27151	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27152	Unfortunately, there's no legal logic here. Health clearance isn't something someone prints at home on the printer and takes it. As governed by law, the law defines who has the right to acquire this in what way and what it says here, and here it writes very clearly, one column in which it writes – the basis of insurance. If anyone fakes this, they go to jail. The insurance base can write something else. He can write a second base of insurance, but he who has a second base of insurance doesn't have that problem, he's not covered by this proposal of my law at all. His rights are also regulated by Article 22. However, anyone who has 10 – 10 in the column who says – that the insurance base is an employee, on the basis of which the person employed on it is subject to the provisions of Article 17 which they say – additionally in Article 30 you can only exercise those rights if the contributions are paid, and this is very, very clear in the law, not in the health book. It doesn't appear on the cover of health books, not in small letters on the front page, it's written in the law, and the law is interpreted like that, not because I say it, but because it's just like that. I wish the people who passed that law had not noticed, maybe they just missed it, I don't think that someone had the wrong intention that this category had damaged the population, but it happened that people were damaged, because they come with this health book according to the law of the book they look at, say the basics of the insurance -- employed persons, look behind you don't have a stamp, excuse us we can receive you on our cheek, but the first health care facility can't invoice this to the Fund if it treats these people without health insurance or some unconscious doctor can bring that patient home, according to the law. In order to make it right, we hope to pass the law in the voting day. I find your debate useful. You've helped me explain these things that may not have been part of the people's MPs, perhaps even the public were clear to the end, but I just wanted to show you honestly, here's the most honest, human not that I didn't mean to, I was hoping that we'd get to the next point of the agenda now. Honestly, as President of Parliament, trust me to take care of the schedules when the ministers come, when they don't come, you know that we don't have a debate when the minister is gone and that I could make better arrangements for them, I was hoping that we could end this. However, I had a need to show that this was not a vain law or a repeat of some previous laws. This is one cavity, perhaps subtle, fine, small, which runs along the edge, but unfortunately in accordance with the law, this category of our population at this point has been left without insurance on the grounds that their employers have not been paying their contributions and remain deprived of health insurance. We do this law, we go on, and I'm ready to work with you and everyone else, let's improve more, let's do other categories of population, let's see what else doesn't work in our health system. Let's have a public hearing in which we will remove all other things, or try to eliminate them. Of course we're trying to find real sources of funding. It took me a while, because with Mr. Babic, the fund manager, I was working on whether or not we would have the means to do so. I could suggest 50 other laws, maybe better and better than this. But if I can't secure funding, it's not right for me to transfer it to someone else's yard and say, well, we've done ours, we've raised our hand, and now you find the money. I just can't be so irresponsible to the health system. Thank you for your discussion, thank you for your support of the law. It means to me what your parliamentary group will vote for, because I think we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27153	The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27154	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, the esteemed Proposer, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Stefanovic, thank Mrs. Plassic for saving me one two minutes reading the members of the law. She's left me enough time to agree through this debate and on Article 17 and Article 22 to simply define the categories and rights of those members by that old that repeating is the mother of knowledge. If you don't know, then you can also learn by repeating the material over and over again. Article 17 defines insurance, right? The point is that the insurance company has a direct right to health insurance, and the insured person has the right to be executed from his. So, you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, when you were studying, if you weren't employed, you were insured, you were entitled to health insurance, right? So we've defined what a security guard is, and what a secure face is, we agree on that. Then we come to article 22 and the October 2012 amendment that is commendable, first and foremost for the Minister of Health and we must be correct to say that, which they say – insurance. So, we agreed on what insurance companies are, we did. So, insurance companies are also considered persons if they do not meet the conditions for obtaining the property of insurance companies from Article 17 of this Act, so they say – children up to the age of 18, school children and students, women in relation to family planning, as well as during pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood. So if we agree on what insurance companies are and have the right to direct health care and, later on, if we say five members again that they are insurance companies, and we have agreed on what they are, and these categories that are why you are allegedly proposing this law today, then we are absolutely getting confirmation that what certain MPs are, and my predecessor and other MPs here are saying. You are often, and you are, with the right, as president of the National Assembly, part of the state summit. Often in the last year and a half, the state summit has been meeting on various issues that are important to our country, and that's fine. You've been in power for a year and a half. With this law, by prescribing solutions that already exist, you do nothing but acknowledge the inability to solve the real problems that exist in these areas. It's not your job to redefine the rights that already exist, it's your job to redefine them if they don't come true. That's your job. Your job to Mr. Stefanovic, not your fault, to be clear, all the people in Serbia and all of us here were in power at some point, it's not your fault that, like the Kickindian Academy Department, they look like the way they look. But it's your fault if a year and a half after you came to power nothing gets fixed there, and you're proposing legal solutions that we've already had for a year here, and we have them. So, we agreed on what insurance and insurance companies are. You see, you've led the public astray a little while ago. This law is your bill. He deals with women, or pregnant women, children, and foster mothers. We talked about the unemployed a little while ago. Don't accidentally mislead the people who are watching this, that even the people who aren't covered by this law get the right to health care. You almost did it. Perhaps unconsciously, as you do not know that you distinguish insurance and insured persons and that in Article 22 these insurance companies have been given the rights that you are proposing here today. There's one more thing that's very worrying about this law, Mr. President of the National Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the body that puts forward a proposal for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and did so in 2006. This assembly of the National Assembly is competent and you as its president to change the Constitution if there is a political agreement. Above all, you are required as president of the National Assembly and we are all here as MPs to be an example when it comes to respecting the Constitution. Article 42. The constitution deals with the protection of personal data, Mr. President, and says everyone has the right to be informed of the collected information about their personality in accordance with the law and the right to judicial protection because of their abuse. You're making this law of doctors responsible for the delivery of data on the termination of pregnancy and the birth of a dead child. That's a rude violation of Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Data Protection Act in Article 16 defines particularly sensitive data, Mr. President, and says that data relating to, among other things, to the health situation can be processed on the basis of the freely given consent of the person. In your MP club, you have people who can explain how terrible a pregnancy interruption is after six months, how it is done and what kind of medical procedures it requires. That's terrible. You've got to get this out. You are the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine that associations appear, which is not excluded at all, or imagine the situation of 25 MPs submitting a proposal to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of members of this law. Imagine if the Constitutional Court really assessed it as unconstitutional, which I believe he would do. (National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, from the place: Please do. I would like to ask the chairman to remind the president of the National Assembly. (President: Please don't throw away. It's not nice to throw, Mr. Stefanovic. That's what you've been teaching us all this time here. Mr. President of the National Assembly, given the way you're acting right now, laughing and throwing, it's not funny for me to say that for a year and a half of the election, you're making a state summit and nothing's been fixed for people, and you're doing cheating. It is clear to the people who sit with you in the benches what this is about, when you and not your MP group are proposing a law like this. You are an example of public authorities when it comes to the protection of pregnant women and maternity, child care and social policy in the city of Belgrade, which you replaced 50 days ago. You may have wanted to, but the party president wouldn't let you be mayor of Belgrade. The assessment is that you may need to work on your image, Mr. President of the National Assembly, and then you want to make this topic of your own... (President: Mr. Panic, please. )......................................................................................................... Everything's fine until you kidnap me in the car. Thank you. The assessment is that this is something we won't vote against, but it's something that won't solve the problems in the area you're dealing with. This is just, Mr. Stefanovic, a cheap way not to deal with what you should do, which is to improve the lives of citizens. You're in the business of improving your own image. Thank you for your concern. I'm just asking you to read the legal solutions a little bit better next time, and then the laws we've passed, not to bring new ones in so we can have an alibi that you don't enforce the old ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27155	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27156	You did, Mr. Chairman, but too late and I'd say rarely. Articles 106, 107 and 108. Don't let, please, in this way MPs from most of us laugh, loud laughter and comments that are absolutely inappropriate and the subject that we are working on today and the spirit of this conversation that we are trying to have, which is why you allow and react only at the end, and then you didn't react, and yet they threw. I know everything's funny to them because when a man is full of helium as their party then before he cracks, he laughs the most. Don't let that happen. Why does the President of the Assembly, acting as a MP, throw all the time and yell at the MPs of the DS, do so? With what right? Is he our teacher here? Until he sits in your seat, he can't be a shadow of the teacher, and you are and so act and warn him, not – Mr. Panic, but Mr. Stefanovic, so when he starts yelling, bring him back to bed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27157	I have to answer. Here's the practice of throwing it away. I accept that you're right, but they're right when they say you're throwing them away. It's just funny for me to give people a heads-up because they're getting it. I don't know how much you're making me lose my patience. I wonder where my limit is. He'd throw half the O.R. out of here. You're challenging me to make a mess here, and I won't. You won't challenge me in that sense to make me out of the circus assembly. I'm not gonna let that happen at any cost, so I don't know what to do. I've got a lot of patience. Thank God, years have taught me that, and as long as I think it's tolerable, I'm going to put up with it. But to challenge me to create a circus here among you, I won't do it. You have the right to enter a plea on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. Yes, you do. Mr. Babic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27158	I am advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, paragraph 1. I believed when the previous speaker started to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so he advertised that he wanted to point to a speech by a member of his parliamentary group, because from 10 minutes, at least nine minutes were about the state summit and many other things, but not about the agenda point. I think that threat too – let's go before the Constitutional Court a threat empty, nothing. We're sure of the law that's being discussed today. We are safe in both legality and constitutionality. We're safe in the life of that law. That is why we are prepared to say – let us say if there are 25 of you who will deny such a thing, sign and we will go to the Constitutional Court and measure ourselves anywhere and before the Constitutional Court and the citizens of Serbia. We'll measure everywhere and maybe... (Chairman: Mr. Babie, please don't cause a replica. )......................................................................................................... I'm telling you this as a balloon knocked up, but it's much better to be a knocked-up balloon than blown-up and somewhere in the garbage of political history.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27159	I don't see a dispute at all whether anyone is going to file proceedings before the Constitutional Court or not. I don't take it as a threat, but as their right to speak out loud. I don't think it was the kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's be as tolerant as we can. Please, if you're going to have every little wrinkle... Well, the man used the Constitutional Court. Okay, you said, turn around if you're right, because the Constitutional Court will decide who's right and who's wrong. I don't see it as some kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is proposed by the law, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27160	Mr. Chairman, the Health Insurance Act defines a number of categories of persons who can be on different grounds of health insurance. For example, unemployed faces. Unemployed persons are entitled to health insurance under this law. So whether they're unemployed, whether they're children, whether adults, women, men, etc. have the right to have health insurance with certain rights. However, there is a problem when it comes to employees. Employees who have a basic health insurance base of 1010, where they are written as the basis of insurance – employed persons. And you as an employee have the right to health insurance only if your contributions are paid. Unfortunately, it's a law and it's good for the state because, you know, you can't have the right to some insurance unless you have a basis for not paying for health insurance. I wish health insurance could be completely free, but at this point it can't. And now, as an employee with a 1010 base of insurance, you don't have a brand to guarantee, or you're not paid contributions, you can't make, say, you and I, who are employed persons, if we don't have that stamp, we can't exercise certain rights. It's especially dangerous when it comes to children, mothers, pregnant women and maternity mothers. There are cases that pregnant women and maternity mothers didn't even dream that their employers didn't pay their contributions, women normally worked, were convinced that the company was working, paid their contributions, went to a health care facility to consult about their pregnancy, to go into the process and someone on the counter told them – give us a health book, look at the insurance base 1010, no stamps. Or, he says, you didn't verify the book. She says - I'm sorry, I didn't see. He goes to his company, or goes to a competent state institution for that, and they say – your company hasn't paid you any contributions in a year, I can't confirm your health book. This woman has a choice either to go to a private doctor, which costs a lot more, or not to be treated, or to expect the mercy of a medical institution that will treat her contrary to the law, which is clearly defined by Article 30. Law and Article 17. A law that speaks of the category of employees. However, we are dealing with this problem with this law today. By solving this problem, we have predicted that even employed persons of category 1010, if their companies did not pay their contributions, that it absolutely does not hit them and that women, mothers, pregnant women, maternity parents, their children, will have the right to health care, will have the right to heal, will no longer worry and see whether the stamp is certified or not. Maybe a pregnant woman doesn't have time to worry about it. She's got a lot more important problems. She needs to take care of her child who needs to get into the world. And she doesn't need to worry about whether a stamp is glued or not, or whether the employer has fulfilled his legal obligations. She needs to be interested in protecting her health and dedicating herself to her child. I'm sorry there's some words here that don't match the truth at all, but I'm not going to do it in particular. I know there's one small circle of Guta fans and Guta was very popular in one period, but it's not anymore. And now, the little fan club Guta has something against this law. But what I can tell you is that most citizens are not against this law. Most citizens like to provide additional protection conditions for a new category of people. Now, whether a small club of fan Guta can handle it or not, I don't know. For all those who believe that this law in any way violates any rights, I advise them not to wait, not to mention it in the Condicional, but that the day after the publication of this law in the Official Messenger, or the entry into force of this law, they seek the right of certain state institutions and try to prove that these rights are disputed, or that they are not in accordance with the highest legal standard of this country. If that happens, this law will not be in force. But if that doesn't happen, they'll show they were wrong when they talked about it. In any case, I am pleased that, regardless of the tone that changes at the Assembly sessions, and that is completely natural and something that is in line with parliamentary democracy, most of the people who speak here say they will support this law. Honestly, I would never support a law that I think is pointless, I would never vote for it. That would be the opposite of intelligence. If you think it's pointless, it's excessive, you don't vote for it, you don't support it. Simply, you say – I really can't vote or you don't come to the vote that day. But if you vote for something, you say it with your own voice – I support it. The MP has only four options: not to vote, to vote yes, to vote against and to be abstentioned. There's no fifth option. If he doesn't come, he didn't vote. So, I'm sorry that the very clear provisions of Laws 17 and 22, which are so clear that it's really pointless for me to read this more and repeat everything that it says, clearly defines who has the right of a member to health insurance. I am pleased that, and I am convinced by the majority of votes of all MPs, in the Voting Day, we will allow the category of population that in Article 17 could not exercise the right to health care and that these women, mothers, pregnant women, maternity parents and their children will have the same right to health care as all other categories of our population, which is very important to me, all the categories that have so far had the right to do so. If one of these categories, each child, pregnant or maternity, under the Health Insurance Act could not exercise its right to health insurance, this law gives them the right to do so. That right no one can dispute and it is very important for me to do so, and I hope that all or a convincing majority of MPs will recognize it as our obligation to build a better society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27161	Thank you. (Ljuban Panic, from town: Replica. Mr. Panic, you have no basis for replication. (Ljuban Panic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) If you abuse the Rules of Procedure, I tell you in advance that I will give you a warning. Don't get angry later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27162	Thank you, Your Honor. Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. It's the wrong part of my exposure. Mr. Proposer misread a part of my presentation, and with that, I do have a right to the replica, a team before I really got an explanation of one question and one question I raised, and it's about protecting personality data. I would only ask you to ask a specific question, without entering political policy and dialogue, indeed. I promise you that as one of the younger MPs of one of the elders. I'd just like to get an explanation for that. I need a minute and it's a specific question about...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27163	Please, you're trying through the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure to act on a replica. I warned you I'd give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27164	Chairman, I do have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27165	However, since you have tried politely to point out this, I will not give you a warning for now, but I will not allow you a replica. It's my right. You know it's my right to give someone a replica or not. Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27166	I think you're violating my business rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27167	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today is useful and will certainly receive support from the DSS MPs' club. It solves one in a series of problems faced by a highly sensitive category of the population. Indeed, I can say that it is a big deal if we allow the health care of pregnant women, maternity mothers, women and children, unless their employer does not pay and fulfil their obligations as insured persons, or pays contributions to compulsory health insurance. Here I have to talk about another thing, which is that this law could be implemented is necessary for certain financial resources to be provided. I must say that I was very surprised when I read in this draft law in terms of which it is said - that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources, and that these funds are provided in the positions of the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I have to admit I've read the budget, and it's very detailed in the part where these funds should be defined, but unfortunately, I haven't found them. I have seen that in this respect, the item relating to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund simply does not have the means to implement this law. I don't think that's good, of course. It is one thing when the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund says – that he will carry out these obligations under the law and that, according to his assessment, those funds amount to between 450 and 500 million dinars. The worst would be if we passed this law today, and if we weren't in a position and the opportunity to carry it out tomorrow because the funds in the Fund don't exist. That's, of course, the worst solution. If Mr. President could listen to me, then we could come up with a solution. Here, I'm able to propose an amendment, when there's a budget debate, to define 500 million dinars for this purpose, because I say, President, I don't know how much you've heard me, I'm not in the budget that these funds are defined, not even in the position of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I'm saying, to get out of this situation, we have a very constructive proposal, it's in our best interest to make this come alive. We suggest that when there is a budget debate, here I propose to propose an amendment, to allocate 500 million dinars for this purpose. I hope also, in that case, a consensus will be provided which today is ruling during the debate, and I hope when this law is passed. Today, unfortunately, employees of companies that do not settle their obligations, or where employers do not pay contributions to compulsory health insurance, perhaps in the most unfavourable situation today in the country, seem to be a more unfavourable position compared to all other categories, even if we mention the unemployed. Because unemployed people can get to a valid medical document much easier than, say, employees of companies that don't settle their obligations. Certainly, the categories to which this law applies, at least if we look at the current demographic picture of Serbia at the moment, are categories of first-rate importance for our society. The law undoubtedly solves one of the important problems facing these categories of population. On the other hand, he opens up some other questions. Let's say the first question is whether, on the basis of all the applicable positive legal rules in force in the Republic of Serbia, whether the Republic Health Insurance Fund and before the adoption of this law, means during that period that precedes this debate, it was obliged to act on what this law regulates. I think so. I read the full annual report of the Citizens' Protector for 2012, and it says, more specifically, the Citizens' Protector finds and believes that the Republic Health Insurance Fund violated children's rights by refusing to verify their health books, although it simply had a duty, even in that situation if employers did not pay contributions to compulsory health insurance, because children cannot suffer and cannot be victims of those third parties who do not comply with their obligations. This right is guaranteed by the Constitution and to this right they must have the privilege. On the other hand, in a situation where the state cannot secure financial discipline, then all these kinds of obligations that others cannot reconcile fall under the burden of the state. This law also opens another question, which is – why is the state silent? Why isn't he doing anything? Why isn't he responding? Why tolerate so many legal entities that do not pay contributions to health insurance? There are more than a few thousand of them today. According to the tax administration's report on health insurance contributions only until 31 March 2013, it is 60 billion dinars and, of course, without the amount of money, without those debts that are in the standstill stage, meaning, without the debt that is still at stake. I think it's a huge amount where the state in this sense must have a much sharper attitude. Of course, I would not like this law to be the basis of a bar, how can I say, the interpretation of employers, that they view it as their protection, but rather the state must play a much more proactive role and that it drastically sanctions exactly this kind of non-payment of contributions to health insurance because I believe that the most harm comes from citizens, and especially from these categories that should be in our first place if we see what demographic image Serbia is facing today. As I said at the outset, this bill solves one in a series of problems that pregnant women and maternity women face. We also know that both pregnant women and maternity mothers today face many problems, such as problems with paying maternity leave fees or, say, maternity leave. We also have a situation where many pregnant women face discrimination especially after the use of maternity leave, such as at certain jobs being discredited or placed on another lower function, etc. These are all the problems we have to point out as representatives of the people. That's why I think it's a good idea for you to come out with a proposal like this, but I also think that we need to look at this problem wider and solve it systemically. Instead of being viewed as a privilege as a reward, motherhood is now seen in a completely different way because women often come into a situation where they suffer certain problems because of motherhood and certain consequences that should not occur. I think it's also important that, among other things, that we try to understand at least as much as it is in our power to root out. Such insights have contributed once before to an alarming depopulation process in Serbia, I would say significantly affect one of the biggest problems that we as a society today in Serbia are facing, which is an unresolved problem of white plague, a problem that the state would have to deal with more seriously, if I'm not mistaken, it was also one of the pre-election promises, but also one of the promises Prime Minister Dacic made in his exhibition as the first question, the first task he will tackle. So far, we've seen that something on that plan doesn't work right. If we know all this data from the last list, we are told that only in Serbia between the two lists there are 42,000 missing and if we add that Serbia is facing a very intense ageing population today, that there is a very high level of mortality, a very low level of fertility that we have in Serbia today 16,000 minor pregnancies, that we have a huge percentage of abortions performed, it is clear that this topic and that all of these problems that we are discussing today must be looked at in a system way and I think it is very important and that it is high time as a nation to wake up and to realize that the demographic restoration of the population of Serbia, today is one of the most important issues that we need to deal with and that the last moment for it to get an adequate place on the scale in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27169	11 minutes and 10 seconds were used. The word is made by National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, legislator of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27170	Dear Mrs. Radovic, you know that I have a special sympathy for the presentations you have and that I am fully prepared to accept all this and speak with the fund manager and Minister Krstic when we bring the budget for next year. I sincerely hope that we can provide more resources, that we will try to do more than planned and fight for every penny, in that sense. Thank you for the constructive discussion, and I was glad that you at the bottom of the list of speakers came, so that we can have an exchange of these, I think, very useful arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27171	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27172	The President-in-Office, Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing today the Law on the Rights of Health Protection of Children, Pregnants and Breeders. It is about the exercise of the right to health protection of the population category covered by special constitutional legal protection in Articles 68 and 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the issue is defined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was ratified in the National Assembly of Serbia in 1990. For example, Article 24 of this Convention says - Member States recognise the rights of the child to the highest level of health and medical care and rehabilitation. Member States will seek to ensure that no child is deprived of the right to such health care. In point 2 below d), it says – security of the necessary medical care, mother before and after the birth of the child. Therefore, both the Constitution and the Convention, which is a legal act of international character and which must be respected, and when it comes to the costs arising out of respect for this obligation, are decidently and clearly defined. The state has a duty to find it. This sensitive group of society, children, pregnant women, and maternity women deserve all the attention and affection of the state and society that is addressed to human and highest values that the human race needs to strive for. Our reality is different from the fact that we have a failure to pay off the contributions made to compulsory health insurance, for a number of reasons. The conditions for investment and business are very difficult, but there are also a lot of those employers who do not report employees and thus do not fulfil the obligation to pay contributions. So here is the issue of child health, pregnancy and maternity care, and it's extremely important with multiple aspects. First of all, these are the most socially sensitive categories of the population. Secondly, these are the most important entities affected by the population policy of each country, because without women who want to become mothers, there is no survival and progress, nor the future of one society or one state. So these issues that we are dealing with here today still deserve to be seen in the broader context of population policy, which means, in addition to health care, social protection, economic security and other conditions for the decent life of pregnant women, maternity, development and raising children. For the state of Serbia, it is very important, a country with a depopulation, where the average per family is 1.4 children, to take care of the protection of these sensitive groups, mothers, children, and that is of particular importance. In this context, health care is one of the most important aspects, a comprehensive protection that the state, if it wants one perspective and a better consideration. However, health and social protection should be the elements of a comprehensive population policy. The importance of population policy, as one of the development priorities, was also discussed here in the National Assembly by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, who hinted at the next year's family year in 2014. So, in my understanding, all system institutions should deal in the long term with certain action plans, activities that will make a full contribution to this area. Today, at a time of great crisis, every step towards achieving full protection of children, pregnant women and maternity care is important, and in that sense I understand this law and support it. When I speak of my personal support, I want to say, and that is already said by our representative who spoke here on behalf of the SPS, Mira Dragas, the SPS will certainly support this law and all MPs, from first to last. What is very important, it should be said that local self-government within their material capabilities should also deal with these aspects, which means that, in addition to the determined amounts defined by law, they should also provide additional parental allowances for the unemployed and for the employed families, if possible. I must say, unfortunately, there are great differences in the Republic of Serbia in this regard between developed local self-government and underdeveloped. Belgrade pays 50,000 for each child born in one birth for an unemployed maternity care. The same amount is paid by the municipality of Petrovac at Mlava, where I come from, but it's half as much as 25,000, not because it's less in account, or because our local self-government is less concerned about it, it's such opportunities. There are huge differences in what the budgets are and what is the development of these local self-government. Secondly, the height of the salary, or earnings during pregnancy, has finally been solved in one better way than up until recently, but we have a situation that pregnant women can earn a full amount of pay in time from 28 to 40 days before delivery and nine months as a maternity baby after childbirth. The question is, what about pregnant women who have to keep their pregnancy from the very beginning, it's a risk group, and this is often happening, who have to go to sick leave and who are reducing their salary to 65% by this time of at least 28 days, or 45 days before childbirth? The second question I want to mention here is discrimination against future mothers and pregnant women and maternity families in the world of work. Today, private employers set inadmissible and inhumane conditions for young women. The condition to get a job is that they don't have a baby, that they're not in a different state and they don't have little kids. They're often forced to sign statements that they won't give birth. The question is, what is this country's future going to be with such a life philosophy and the demand of those who make profit and who only think about today and not think about tomorrow of this country? It is precisely because of so much abusive discrimination that a citizen with initials J.O., I will not say her name, may have addressed some other parliamentary groups, an unemployed pregnant woman, has also addressed our MP group, and on behalf of many young women who are discriminated against because they want to be mothers. Her question is: I wonder why pregnant women are treated as second-class citizens, who not only won't hire, but are not desirable even after pregnancy because they became mothers, but can only dream about work? A really difficult question, or question, is simple, but it is a difficult reality. This example shows the complexity, depth and complexity of these issues, and we really need, as a society and as a state, to pursue systemic, comprehensive solutions and to solve this. In the end, I would like to say that it remains unclear to us, and to me personally, that some MPs are criticising and challenging this law and against the law, and on the other hand will vote for it? It has absolutely nothing to do with any logic, or what is common sense. I personally understand the reasons and need to pass this law. Once again, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law, but while noting that issues, which have not been sufficiently defined and settled properly in the Health Protection Act and in the Health Insurance Act, should have been amended and brought to order through amendments and additions to these laws. By passing laws like this, Lex specialis, on certain issues, from a particular area, we partially approach certain issues and certain problems. In the context of a single area that we need to regulate by a special law, we will come to have more special, partial laws that need to be dealt with. I don't think that's the way and method to system-solving all these issues. Of course, it does not diminish your efforts and efforts to define these questions. This remark of mine is quite well-intentioned and I think it is justified but, once again, I stress, the SPS MPs will vote in favour of this law because it is very important, because it goes in favour of what the interests of our future are, and it is about pregnant women, for maternity and for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27173	13 minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Tamara Tripic, followed by a national MP, Irena Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27174	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we think of these special vulnerable categories of population, it is inevitable to challenge a response of understanding support and full consent. You know, kids and pregnant women are always the subject that means we're all in. As a rule, we all, as we have seen here, need to jump out with statements that they are a state and social priority, a window of our relationship to the future, a picture of our society and a vision for a better tomorrow. In that sense, the idea of consensus on their protection is guaranteed, but the right and exercise of rights are two completely different things. We have a relatively decent legal framework, and yet we are the last country in Europe, on a list of 34 countries, in the quality of health care. So we're right, and we don't have quality. We don't have the essential consumption of rights. For me, a sincere attitude towards the rights of pregnant women and children is to give them conditions that they can normally and in accordance with modern standards to exercise their right to offspring, that children can uninterruptedly exercise the right to prevention, but also treatment, guaranteed by the Health Insurance Act itself. Not to be wrong, the law introduces expenses, transportation in connection with the exercise of the right to health care, and that's nice. That's not exactly the biggest problem. It is much more important for me not to send my husband to Valjevo to buy me a temperature-smuggling syrup, but to have the medicine, as a normal thing, in all the pharmacies in Serbia. It's the exercise of the right to health care. The consumption of health care rights is that hospitals do not seek an alternative to berodual, because it is a necessary medicine to inhale children during pneumonia, which is, you will agree, for young people a difficult disease. Mothers, pregnant women, and maternity families need the essential exercise of rights in order to have the quality of life that a modern - day citizen deserves. I must repeat, the law gives us the rights that are already provided. In that sense, I want to help you with how and how the law is read. In our country, the Constitution is the highest legal act of this country. In that sense, all laws must comply with the Constitution. When any law is passed, the Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs shall give an opinion on whether the proposed law is in accordance with the Constitution. That's what happened when we passed the Health Insurance Act. The Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs has given its opinion that this law is in accordance with the Constitution, and the Constitution tells us unequivocally in Article 68. - children, pregnant women, mothers during maternity leave, single parents with children by the age of seven, and the old ones are receiving health care from public incomes, were they insured, were they not insured, they were covered by health care in our country. Furthermore, Articles 7 to 9 provide for fines for the Republic Fund, i.e. health institutions for the denial of those rights. I must admit that this is a useful detail in the proposed law, because this right existed before, but practice has shown that it is not applied because of the different interpretation of the provisions of the applicable Health Insurance Act. For reasons of passing this law, it is noted that the provisions of this law are part of the fulfilment of the obligations that the Republic of Serbia has towards the European community, that it is of particular importance for the preparation of the Republic of Serbia for EU accession. This is a very strange formulation, given that already in a statement of compliance with EU rules, it is explicitly showing that there are no provisions of the agreement and of the transitional agreement for the proposed normative content of the rules. So this law has nothing to do with the process of European integration. In the light of the law, it states that the implementation of the law does not require the provision of additional appropriations in the budget and that it will provide them in the context of positions under the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. You know, when rights increase, on condition that they really expand the volume, it has to cost someone something. I know that in Belgrade, the idea of free tickets to transport is solved by the invoices of the GSB to the City Assembly. So someone must always bear the costs. It is fortunate that MP Stefanovic informed us that he had arranged with the director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund about 500 million and I don't think it's the best way to dispose of state resources. So it can be said that this law speaks of topics that are more than significant to Serbia. It opens up the subject of the position of pregnant women, mothers and children, but their position is not essentially solved. No one can guarantee them that within eight days of the publication in the "Official Messenger" their position will be better and the quality of care for their health will be greater. To remind you again, Serbia is indeed the last in Europe for the quality of healthcare. We have over 300,000 couples who have a problem with sterility. Health homes had, and maybe they still have, a problem with tetanus vaccines. The problem of insulin shortages in pharmacies is as a chronic problem of our country. Operations and specialist reviews are scheduled for some terms that are recklessly distant. It's a cytostatic class. There's no class. And that's the problem, that's what essentially narrows down the citizens of Serbia. It's a topic that needs to be opened in society. Dear President of the Assembly, I do not dispute that these categories of the population really require a free stamp for transportation, because somewhere it is the essence of your bill, but do not insult the citizens of Serbia that a free stamp will improve the quality of health care for pregnant women, children and maternity. In that sense, the proposed law can and does not have to be voted on, because we are talking about the rights that the law has already provided. I must express my suspicion that today's Parliament session we are literally spending to show the SNS to its coalition partners who are hair and who is carrying water, because the law does not propose a resolution ministry. The billmaker forgot to invite the minister to discuss the law. The minister did not attend a session of the Assembly Committee when the bill was discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27175	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, legislator of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27176	I must say, I think it is offensive for the citizens of Serbia when some MPs deliberately do not want to say what the essence of this law is or when they devalue the rights that some categories of this society should achieve. But, well, that is the legitimate right of certain MPs and the policy they are leading. That's what the citizens will assess in the next election and say what they think about it. In any case, I think the majority, if not all representatives of the SNS coalition groups, have made it clear what they think of the bill. We're doing this uniquely. Everyone supported it. I also thank our coalition partners who have shown that they can appreciate the rights of people, not that I am the legislator, without their votes, without the votes of most MPs, this law would not have been passed. I am pleased that, above all, these wonderful ladies who are Members of Parliament, who are today realizing the seriousness and importance of adopting this law for the citizens of Serbia who cannot achieve these rights have given great support to the Women's Parliamentary Network and to all those who have supported it, because this is the right way to protect the rights of some endangered layers of the population. The essence of this law is that those categories of population covered by Article 17. Health care laws, which do not have certified health books on the basis that their employers do not pay proper health contributions, can exercise their rights to health insurance. It's just the essence of this law. Everything else is extra. It's further defined as having the right to free transport, but it's just a peripheral decision in this one. In this, it is only the heart of this law that those who have their health books, the category of persons employed, and employers do not pay their contributions, can exercise their health rights. It's the real, honest and the only essence and purpose of this law. Anyone who wants to see it, wants to, and doesn't want to see it, doesn't want to. I have no intention of arguing with these people, persuading them excessively, but every time, after every discussion that tries to present it in a different way, I will also report in some time which I consider necessary to define clearly what the essence of this law is, I will count everything, and if I have to show the health book again, count special categories, such as, say, 1814, the category of those who are on the bureau and are unemployed. They have a different right to receive health care. For example, category 1010 refers to employees and those who are employed, and employers do not pay them contributions, they now have the right to exercise their health care in a legitimate and orderly manner. That's the truth and that's the point. After all, everyone who does not think so, I call them openly – please do not vote for this law. Don't be a part of populism, demagogy, don't be a part of a waste of time. Don't be part of the collapse of the reputation of the National Assembly, because if you vote, then you agree with all my arguments. If you're voting against it, at that moment you're taking sides with your arguments and you're really proving that you don't think this was meaningful. However, I think that a certain part of the MPs, which I find legitimate and normal, is the desire to be out of the opposition position, out of the view of criticism, is particularly opportunised when the speaker of parliament is and it is very useful to show in opposing attitudes, even when arguments say otherwise. It's a legitimate right. However, Serbian citizens do not benefit from that. They benefit when we pass this law, so a mother, a pregnant woman, or a foster mother, who is employed, and her company did not pay her contributions by her fault, comes to the doctor. They say, yesterday the law came in, now we don't even see if you have a stamp, nor do we care. She says -- well, now I'm benefiting, now I'm getting to the doctor faster, now nobody's asking me if I've met some bureaucratic element. It's a benefit that women, mothers, pregnant women, maternity parents will benefit from this bill. I am very glad that most MPs recognized it, as I am convinced that most Serbian citizens did, and that in voting day, we will indeed show by majority of votes that the National Assembly has the power to improve this society and to further protect the categories that we have as a society for this reason, because of negligence, failure, because of incompetence, incompetence, are not at all important reasons, leading to this category remaining to hang. So, there were conversations here, of course, that in this way we don't accidentally give up to those companies that don't pay their contributions. It's absolutely out of our minds. We all need to send a clear signal that anyone who doesn't pay contributions to their workers, especially when it comes to women and children, mothers, above all, through whom their children have the right to insurance, is committing a terrible crime against these people. You should think about it. In order not to wait for this systemic solution to major issues, because for some mothers, for some pregnant women and maternity women, it may be too late in terms of the exercise of their rights, I have proposed a law that will immediately provide them with these opportunities to exercise their legal rights. When we do even more seriously, so we manage to discipline the financial system, so we have a budget charge that is complete, so there are no more companies that avoid paying what taxes, which contributes, we as a society will do one big service for all future generations. It's not done in one government. Every next government, the government will change, will have a easier job because the previous one has managed to regulate the system better and more precisely. That is why I want to thank all the MPs once again, however they debated today, as they have shown by their debate that there are sometimes differences in seeing things that are ahead of us. Some MPs want to make this law look bad. Some MPs do not believe in the exercise of additional rights, some MPs do. Through this debate, after all, we will also allow people to opt for each of us when they decide in the next elections, whenever they come, how to give their vote, to show whether they believed one or the other arguments, and that is exactly the place for us to debate in parliament, which I think is perfectly normal, but also maybe it will fix some of the provisions of the different laws that we are making today and that we are going to make in the future, as I agree with colleagues who have spoken about once a system law we need to better settle things than a Lex special, and I agree. It's not always good to do Lex special. I only suggested this for the reason that this Lex specialis allows you to bring the solution right away, right away. The system arrangement of the big law, a law that would codify a large area of health care and health insurance, would still have to pass a much longer public debate. He'd have to go through the same thing with the competent state authorities. It would also have to go through a long debate both in the committee and in parliament and who knows when it would be on the agenda, especially when we have in mind that soon the budget to be discussed will also be on the agenda, a law on the work that has been announced. So we have before us a lot of laws that will require a lengthy and extensive debate. This will allow the rights to come true immediately. I assumed the law would be passed on the eighth day of the day of publication. There is an amendment, which I am prepared to accept, that the law be adopted on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" and that the National Assembly determines the existence of special and particularly justified circumstances for the law to be declared, or adopted, to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger". I think it'll show our extra concern. I think it's completely natural. We have adopted many laws in this way, and this will show the concern of this House. I would like all the MPs to participate in this, because I really do not intend to, nor should I, either, pick up some fame and some recognition for it, nor should it be necessary for anyone from the Serbian Progressive Party. We want it to be part of Parliament's work, like when we have adopted amendments and additions to the Labour Act that we have provided better rights for women who are employed, where they have the right to stay away from work longer, to give up their children, that they can exercise the right that no one can, by expiring their labour contract, deny them the right to continue to work. It was the same thing we were thinking about when I talked to colleagues from other parliamentary groups, it was an amendment to the Labour Act. There could have been a more meaningful change of the Labour Act, and it might have been better systemically, but in time and quickly intervened at the time when women who remained in a different state were merely outlining work contracts and did not extend. We are also trying to get that category of population, which is covered by Article 17. The Health Protection Act, which says they are insured persons on the basis of employees, code 1010 of their classification in the health system, to allow them to suffer no consequences because of their employers' irresponsibility. It's an honest and essential intention to do this law today. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27177	National MP Tamara Tripic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27178	Thank you. Dear Mr. Stefanovic, I just want to remind you that we are here all the time trying to debate the proposed law with you just because we are aware that both pregnant women and children and families are a special group of people who are at increased risk. In that sense, all we've been trying to do is explain to you that this law isn't bad, it's just unnecessary. So we're talking about the rights these people already have. You always predict the fact that I was trying to explain to you, the Constitution is the highest legal act in this country. All laws must comply with the Constitution, and the Constitution unequivocally states in Article 68(2) that children, pregnant women, mothers during maternity leave, single parents with children by the age of seven and the elderly achieve public income health care. All laws must comply with the Constitution. The Health Insurance Act when adopted has the opinion of the Assembly Committee that it is in accordance with the Constitution. So, this bill of yours isn't bad, we're just telling you it's completely unnecessary and we're pointing to the real problems that pregnant women, children and maternity have. Demagogy is, Mr Stefanovic, when you are proposing a law that already exists and demagogy is when what is already provided for by the Health Insurance Act, when it should have been voted on that these special categories have compulsory health insurance, you leave this room and do not vote for the law. It's a demagogy, and this is a constructive approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27179	The word is Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27180	Mr. Chairman, we have before us a law that is very important for certain categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is a very necessary law. This is a law which, and we will soon show on a very obvious case, will especially protect one category of population that has so far missed by the National Assembly and previous legislators, did not allow this category of population to enjoy the honest, true and true protection it deserves, especially in terms of categories which the Constitution itself recognises through its many members as categories that are particularly sensitive, particularly endangered and which deserve special protection from the state. Namely, when you go to a health care unit, you have a health book based on your employment, you come to a health care facility, you look at the insurance base, and the insurance base is 1010 – employed persons. You, as an employee, have the right to use health care because it is prescribed by Article 17. Health care law - you're a working person and you have the right to use health care. But it happens that your employer, for example, someone who's very unconscious, someone who's engaged in a set-up tender, ruined the company and by ruining the company, made it impossible for you to essentially, not pay you off, to exercise your rights, and you had no idea about it. For example, a pregnant woman comes to a health care facility, comes to her home of health and says, "Good afternoon, I would like to use my rights." They tell her - great, give us your health book. They look at the health book, and there is a basic insurance base of 1010 — employed persons. They say - you are subject to article 17. Health care law relating to Article 30. The Health Protection Act, which states that you can only exercise your rights under Article 17 if you are paid social security. There's no other interpretation. The law is like that. I wish it were different, but it's not. Based on that member of the law, they turn the last page of your health book and see if there is a stamp of the Republic Health Insurance Fund with a certain number that says that you are insured during the period when you came to request health care. If you are not insured during this period, if you did not have health insurance, or if that stamp does not exist, you do not have the right to use health care and this woman is not guilty. That's what happened. These women did not even know that their contributions were not paid, and there were few, women in the sixth, seventh, eighth, or ninth months of pregnancy. Should we close our eyes to this problem? Should we say, "What do we care, the law is not precise enough, it will be resolved one day?" Should we close our eyes to this problem? Should we say, what do we care, the law isn't precise enough, it'll get rid of it someday. It's for a woman who's nine months late. She has to have health care today. It's different if she's unemployed. If that woman is unemployed, if she has some other basis. When we passed, Mr. Shane remembers, when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, we defined a category of persons who were legally invisible until then. She had problems, different kinds of problems. We have defined that they can only by a declaration, exercise the right to personal documents from which their other rights come, which will exercise the right to health care. But then, with the help of other means, active IDs have the right to seek health care in health institutions. That thing's completely clear. It will even come to the fact that you have a situation today, that someone who was a legally invisible person by yesterday has more rights than someone who has a completely orderly employee documentation and that once again points out in the health book has 1010 as the basis for health insurance or employees, cannot exercise his right to do so without even knowing it until the moment he came into contact with a health care facility. A young woman who remained in a different state, satisfied, happy, came with a future husband, came there, or with her husband, anyway, came there to a health care facility and found that this woman had no right to health insurance. What do you want him to do? To go to a private doctor, that's an option, but it's more expensive. She can't take out the Constitution and say that in a health care institution, sorry about the Constitution says, they say, "I'm sorry, but there's a law that developed this member of the Constitution and says that you can only exercise your right to health insurance if your book is certified and your book is not certified." I'm gonna do this again by morning, because this is very simple and I'm not gonna let anyone devalue what we're saying because there's no argument against this. When you arrive with 1010 you fall into the category of employees and you can only call on that member of the law. You don't have another one. There's no article 49 that defines it. Only Article 17. You have no other basis for requiring health insurance. At that moment, we intervene today. We allow this category of persons to exercise their legal rights and not think about what's on the last page in the future. It's the Fund's job from now on. I'm even talking to the Director of the Fund, we've jointly anticipated a serious punishment for the Fund, for the Director of the Fund, if that right doesn't come true. So we're aware that we have to exercise these rights. We're predicting serious criminal measures. I think that in the tide, in the course of the amendment debate, we're going to sharpen them even more, to show that the intention to carry out these measures is sincere. Of course, we can also discuss the overall rights that pregnant women, mothers, and their children enjoy in health institutions. I don't want to talk about my experience, when my wife was having a baby, I was at birth with her during the whole birth. I know what we paid from the moment we entered the maternity ward until the moment we went out. It happened at the time of the previous government. Now I'm going to define what we've paid for, let's say, when he wants to have an injection that will allow for an easier birth, an epidural. It costs, I wish it were free, unfortunately it costs, and my wife was in labor, she had a health book, I also paid for the epidural. We've paid a lot of things under the law, with a pricer, on a bill, all regular. This is the health care that was offered to Serbian citizens. It's quality health care that's been back for years. We need to talk about how to improve it today. You know, if a ten-year-old sees it that way and doesn't do anything, he loses his right to become the most significant spokesman for the protection of those rights at one point. If you don't say that at a time when you're in power, and I say today that health care is insufficient, that it needs to be improved, I'm not ashamed to say it both as Parliament's president and as part of the ruling coalition. We all have to work on it, but it's not the minister's fault, it can't be that woman in a year to change a system that hasn't been good for years. But that we must all participate in that I believe that we must. We have to fight to make this country's health system better. I don't want to be remembered as someone who said that in opposition, and then, in power, I kept my mouth shut and looked to get out of the way, let trains, trucks, pigeons pass, and do nothing in essence about it. Today we react because we are dissatisfied with the state of health of pregnant women, children, mothers, and maternity care. That's why we're hoping in the voting day with great support we'll show that we want to be a society that cares, that we want to be a society that isn't stoned, that has empathy for those people who are harder than we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27181	Mrs. Tripic, you want a replica, but you have no right to a replica. I'll explain now. The legislator addressed me directly twice, explaining the reasons for the law being passed and the possible situation in which the mother could be found or the child. Therefore, for this reason, you have no right to a replica and I will not give you a replica. Let's move on, the word has a People's MP, Irena Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27182	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, today we have before us a bill on the exercise of the right to the health care of pregnant women, maternity and children. The new law interrupts the dilemma of whether a child under 18, pregnant or maternity have a health book, providing free health care for these categories. In view of the fact that a large number of companies are unable to pay contributions to compulsory health insurance, there is a rare need for employees to remain unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily ill health care. In order not to lose that right, those who need it most, and these are pregnant women, maternity parents and children, are also proposing the adoption of the said law. Should we allow a high-temperature child to not be admitted to a doctor because the employer did not pay his mother or father contributions to health insurance? Can't a pregnant woman have a baby because she doesn't have a certified health book? Should we allow them to return home in that condition? Should we in such cases respect the procedure and adhere to formalities? In order not to violate such an unfair law so far, it is proposed that a new human law be passed, one that is brought on account of mothers and their children who are now guaranteed health care, i.e. preservation and improvement of health. Is there anything more important than that? The previous Regulation on the National Health Programme for Children, Women and Youth has not been fully implemented. This new law changes for the better of the entire health system and the overall health care situation. Thanks to the SNS and the speaker of parliament who proposed this law, it is all going in a better direction and changing the entire health system for the better. Today, in parliament, we heard that individuals again advocate media censorship, even when it comes to Internet comments. I simply find it hard to believe that someone should be commended at the expense of the President of the Assembly for his work and fortification so hard to fall. We do not have too much time to deal with Internet comments, so I would return to the law and add that this law is the most vulnerable category of the population and that they now have the right to health care, even when health insurance documents are not certified because of unpaid contributions. The families exercise this right one year after delivery, and the condition for obtaining it is the health insurance document issued by the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the confirmation of the physician of gynaecology specialist on the existence of pregnancy, i.e. the delivery of a release list from a health institution where birth has been made. For those who trespass against this law, fines are very clearly prescribed, so that if the responsible person in the health care institution refuses to exercise the right under this law will be fined in the amount of 30,000 to 50,000 dinars, while the fine for the Republic Fund and health institutions will be between 300,000 dinars and millions of dinars and I believe that few will dare to commit this kind of offence. For those who are considering financing, namely how much adoption and implementation of this law will burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the news is that the funds have already been provided under the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan. We want all children in Serbia to be healthy, to have hope and faith in the better tomorrow, that the state of Serbia is behind them and that we will guarantee it. Therefore, dear fellow MPs, it is not too much to explain the justification for the adoption of this law. I deeply believe that we will adopt him unanimously and that in this way we will only confirm that we are people who have not lost our sense of justice, justice and humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27183	The word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Jovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27184	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the pillar of the future of every nation is children, pregnant women and mothers. These are at the same time the most socially sensitive categories in any society. Therefore, the state must pay special attention to these categories of the population, both through the legal framework and through concrete measures. Children, pregnant women and mothers form the basis of each population policy, so that the measures that apply to this population must be approached with special attention. For Serbia, the population issue is survival. The demographic picture of Serbia today seems rather dreary. The average birth rate fell below the European level. Almost 75% of girls between the ages of 20 and 24 don't have children. Not nearly 44% of those between the ages of 25 and 29, as well as 21.8% between 30 and 34. At the same time, in central Serbia, the number of intentional abortions is double the number of live births, and in Vojvodina for half. About 90% of women who deliberately interrupt pregnancy are between 20 and 40 years old. More than 90% of them are married, and almost 80% already have one or two children. Nearly a quarter of the total number of women in central Serbia and fifths in Vojvodina had four or more intentional abortions, which may reflect a later birthing ability. Many of these women are not committed to family formation and birth because of the poor socio-economic situation and fear that they will not be able to care for their children, because there is great unemployment, on the one hand, but also discrimination from employers, on the other. It is difficult to explain that the state cannot prevent its control mechanisms of daily discriminatory practices by a number of employers. The law that is before us represents only one of the forms of child protection, pregnancy and maternity, but the fact that comprehensive measures are necessary that would represent not only protection but also systematic inciting women to childbirth. Serbia will not be able to stop a 50-year fall in birth in two decades. In order to go back to zero and to have at least the same number of people that exist, each woman needs to have at least two children. We understand the human character of this law and the desire to regulate more clearly and more precisely the rights for these sensitive groups and to specify criminal provisions for offenders, which is why the SPS parliamentary group will support this law. However, I draw attention to the Health Care Act, Article 11, which addresses the issue of the right to the health insurance of sensitive categories of citizens, such as: children, pregnant women and maternity leavers, but also persons over 65 years of age, persons with disabilities and mentally inadequately developed persons, persons with HIV infection and other infectious diseases, malignancies, diabetes, multiples of sclerosis, disease of addiction, persons with rare diseases, materially unsecured persons, users of permanent monetary assistance, persons of Roma nationality, victims of violence, victims of trafficking, persons who provide targeted preventive checks, single parents. I cite this article because the adoption of this law as a leks specialist is not ignored or placed in another plan and other sensitive categories, because it would violate the single health care system, as well as the principles of justice and the comprehensiveness of health care for all citizens. I would also draw attention to some negative phenomena towards pregnant women and mothers: discrimination in employment, discrimination in salary, lack of understanding of employers for child rearing problems, lack of place in pre-school institutions, housing of children of a clear age, although the law allows for the stay of a six-month-old child in an institution. All these problems lead to a reduction in the motivation of young people to form a family and give birth to children. The importance of population policy for Serbia, a country with an increasing population, also points to Prime Minister Ivica Dacic in his exhibition at the time of his entry into office, but also in 2014 he declared the Year of the Family, in which all those involved in the population policy, the professional public and those deciding on population policy measures would have to contribute fully to the achievement of the objectives of the population policy set out in the Strategy to encourage birth. The only thing we can do together is do something. A number of population measures are needed which, apart from the comprehensive health protection of these categories, no matter what the basis for insurance is, could contribute to the motivation of young people, above all to make marriages and then to give birth, education of young people about the importance of a functional family as a basic cell of society, which is also a prerequisite for a healthy society. In the field of social protection, to take into account the social security of unemployed parents; to introduce a child's supplement for several categories of population, which would mean a reduction in childcare benefits, more adequate protection of single parents, to point out the problem of paying child support to which, when one of the parents does not pay for it, custody authorities and courts do not respond in good time; priority in the employment of young mothers, because it is increasingly a practice for employers to hire women with older children, due to frequent departures of young mothers to care for the care of children; more adequate control of employers by inspection limits due to non-payment of contributions; non-reporting of workers and increasing the work on black; campaign to raise awareness of labour rights; and therefore reporting of all forms of discrimination and mobining because many young women are not being able to work and pay for their health care. There is a phenomenon that, after receiving minimum earnings, they have an obligation to return one part of the salary in cash to the employer and, out of fear of being left out of work, do not report all these phenomena to competent inspections which unfortunately control usually only by application. The essence of adequate protection of these categories moves in two directions. One is a more comprehensive system of measures, and the other is enhanced control of a state that would certainly correct a large number of irregularities and injustices according to these and other categories of population. It is important that we understand the importance of this problem because we will either regain consciousness or disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27185	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27186	Dear Chairman, Mr. Stefanovic, as a proponent, I will begin my presentation tonight with a story from real life that should illustrate the way you interpret the existing law, starting from the Constitution to the two system laws, the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act, to interpret them in one incorrect way. My colleague, Tripic, is the mother of two children, and she took her child to a systematic examination and vaccination a year ago with her untrusted book and her husband's untrustworthy book in a health home in Belgrade. She managed to do both things by saying to her nurse – please, it was never a problem because children are a constitutional category. As we have heard countless times in the O.R. today, the Constitution in its Article 68 says nicely that children, pregnant women, mothers during maternity leave, single parents with children by the age of seven, and the old ones receive health care from public incomes if they do not otherwise comply with the law. The second view of this member also says that health insurance, health care and the establishment of health funds are regulated by law. These two system laws are the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. I will not read again Articles 11 and 12. The health care law, because I think we've heard enough of them today. I won't even read the principle of obligation in Article 10. The Health Insurance Act, or Article 17, which defines what they are, or who they are, within the meaning of the Health Insurance Act. I will not even read Article 22, which says that insurance companies are considered even by the age of 18, school children and students until the end of the prescribed schooling, and no later than 26 categories, women in relation to family planning, as well as during pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood up to 12 months after childbirth, and some 14 other categories that you, if you already wanted to propose a law that already exists, could have been freely listed in your legal proposal. So what's a fundamental question here is a pledge to rights that are already guaranteed and rights that already exist, but for some reason and in some cases they don't apply. The procedure for the application of a law or some legal provision does not imply the adoption of a new legal act and does not imply the adoption of a new law. I would ask you to discuss cases like this with the Resort Ministry, which, as an executive authority, makes sure that some law is applied adequately, of course in accordance with the law, because this ministry is actually an executive power dealing with law enforcement. So we're talking about the application of the existing law and you can't take us back to the story and interpret in your way the law that the professional public and all the well-intentioned lawyers interpret in one way, and you interpret it in another way. I must tell you that you have been led astray by those who have advised you to approach this way to solve the problem that, I agree, arises in practice. Addressing this problem in practice only means making sure that the existing law is applied and nothing else. It takes you to sit at the same table with your coalition partners, to agree to read the members of the laws that exist, to send inspection supervision to medical institutions that have information that they do not behave in accordance with the law, to direct the instructions to all addresses, to instruct all addresses of all health institutions not to disobey the law, and therefore your problem would be solved. This is how you put us in a position to believe there's another motive. I'm not going to point out which one, and you know exactly what motive. This is not an honest commitment to improving the quality of health insurance, pregnant women, children and maternity care. If you haven't been able to sit down with your coalition partner and agree why the existing law isn't applied, then I can only assume that these things don't work very well. That's why you actually had to propose a new law that regulates the matter that's already been regulated by law. But the fact that things don't work between your coalition partner and you is no excuse for what you did. What we're also worried about is that by proposing a law that already exists, you're bringing real confusion into this legal space. You're narrowing down the categories that are listed in the two system laws I've been talking about. In a way, you will only make it difficult to apply this law. If you were already able to agree with the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund to provide new funds for this, although in the light of the law, you state that no new means are needed to implement the law, then you could easily sit at the same table with it and agree to change the basis of the insurance. It's a simple click in the computer program and all the problems in the field and in practice we'd be solved. I will conclude with one thesis and repeating what my colleagues have said, which is that the Democratic Foreigners and us sitting in this room are not the problem that twice, not five times, not fifty times, not a hundred times, not a thousand times in favour of what we voted for in the previous years, because we don't suffer from post-brain syndrome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27187	The speaker of the law has the word, the peoples of the Parliament of Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27188	Mr. Chairman, you weren't in the O.R. during one period. In fear that you may have missed something of what was said, I would like to point out once again some important provisions of this law, just because you were absent for justified reasons and I must address you. Namely, I have two health books here now. Both health books are the same health categories, in different municipalities, for different jobs. It says, insurance base 1010 employees. What does it mean, and what does this tell us about these health categories? This suggests that an employee, either of these two persons, employed in any of these institutions, must achieve another important prerequisite in order to be able to exercise the right to health insurance, in accordance with Article 17. The Health Insurance Act, which is that on the last page, it has a certified health book, namely that the Republic Health Insurance Fund has approved a health book and provided a guarantee that it has the right to health insurance on the basis of this, because Article 17 says the Health Insurance Act. Now, one example of life. What happens if a pigeon lands on the window of a health institution and sees a woman who comes to a health care facility not having a certified health book, untrusted in the capacity of 1010, and a doctor who's a nice person says – please let me help you, we're not going to cause a problem that your book is not certified? What could the pigeon of Guta conclude? That the doctor is a nice man, decent and normal, but that he's making an excess of the law. What's that gonna have to do with it? That he won't be able to invoice his health care service to the Health Insurance Fund, which will damage the company. Someone will say – is it important that the company, which we care about, is a state institution, is important for women and children to be protected. However, in the game of large numbers, by making it impossible to charge without invoiceing that servant, and you couldn't invoice it because it's impossible to invoice, because, we repeat, the law predicts that only if your book is certified, you have literally contributed to the collapse of the health system. For the best of intentions, from human, warm, human intentions, I'd probably do the same. But one part of the money that would be paid for that doctor's salaries, nurses, staff, multiple scanners, medications, treatment, maternity conditions, you're basically denying it, and the Fund has no obligation to pay for it. I'm sorry I may have gone too far in a joke, but if I had to repeat a thousand times, it's impossible to solve this problem at the moment, and that the category of persons who are employed and who draw their rights from Article 17. The health insurance law, those mothers who come with an untrusted book tomorrow, some bureaucrat, some administrator, will come back and tell them, you have no right. Of course, that's not going to happen because we're going to pass this law. It is important for me to say that, by adopting this law, we, as a National Assembly, have allowed these categories of population, women, pregnant women, maternity parents, children, to have no dilemma whether they have health insurance or not. We have made, of course, additional efforts to make different categories of persons when they come to a health care facility have the right to be treated and that is the basic human right. I don't see what's controversial. But anyway, of course, if you, I hope if you come out again or you're not there, I'll tell you again if you missed something in the meantime I have to explain it to you, because you're still holding a session. I care very much that you are in the process of what is happening and what are the essential problems in the exercise of so far's rights. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27189	Mrs. Mechandzic, you probably want a replica, but you have no right. Let me explain. The legislator has returned to me again as chairman explaining a possible case when it can come to the fact that someone does not exercise the right to health care. He didn't mention you at all, he didn't comment on your discussion, not on you, not on the party, so you have no right. Mrs. Mechandzic, please, I'll give you my word. I'm afraid you'll abuse this Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27190	The Honorable Chairman, I would really never abuse the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. So I'm advertising Article 104, and this is the first position, because I think you've been obliged to provide me with time for replication and opportunity to replicate the motionary even though he spoke to you, but he reacted unequivocally to my presentation. In that sense, I think that you have violated Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, because here it says - that is, it misreads the MP's presentation, the MP to whom the exposure relates, has the right to reply. My presentation was misread by the promoter. With this in mind, I ask you once again very culturally to give me time to replicate the MP, or to propose and defend my views, which is my legitimate right as a representative of the citizens of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27191	Mrs. Mehandzic, you are not at all right about the offensive comment of your presentation. You're wrong. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The legislator once explained the possible case when the child or mother of a pregnant woman may not be entitled to health care. We don't see at all that it really was, even though you recognized yourself in it, but I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can ask us to come forward in the voting day if you think so. Okay. We'll come out in voting day. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27192	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 27 and Article 32 here we now have one problem in holding a session on your part. We are absolutely aware of the fact that Mr. Stefanovic, in the role of the MP, quotes the full presentation and interpretation of Mrs. Jovan Mehandzic's presentation. And we're aware of the fact that he's doing it one bad way. You absolutely had a reason and a lot of rights to give Mrs. Mehandzic a line. I'm advertising Article 27 that says that you are chairing the National Assembly sessions and that you are taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, but I don't think it's a good way to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure without the opposition having the right to reply. I think you should have given Mrs. Mehandzic a word to answer and to state the DS's views and their own. It's your right, discreetly, to decide on the right to reply, but don't use that right so much on the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27193	Mr Milivojevic, the first member of the 27th and the 32nd member you called for has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I can't get into it at all. You know, I know you know very well, that on the basis of Article 104, the position of the third or which, exclusively, is the right of the chairman to determine whether anyone or not gives the right of replica to the MP. At this point, I've concluded he doesn't have the right to a replica, and that's my right. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to plead in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Do you want to? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Yes. ) Mr. Veselinović, on what basis are you answering? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27194	The Honorable Chairman, I'm advocating a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been violated because you have allowed the authorised representative to use rude obstruction and the fact that, instead of all MPs, it explicitly addresses you, avoids the other MPs to whom his presentation refers to the answers and defenses of his views which he persistently casts out, i.e. to turn really what they wanted to say. So, although clearly colleague Mehandzic pointed out the fact that the Constitution supermises the law and the possibility of applying what we are discussing today through existing legal solutions and why new law is passed, you do not allow Mrs Mehandzic to say so. And in response to our presentations, Mr Stefanovic spoke 30 or 40 minutes in the last hour and a half. Of course, counting on the prime time when television is most watched and the congregation’s presentation of MPs is followed with special attention. So this is proof that the law today was put in the procedure to put it here, in one populist way that only showed that the SNS, or the government they are headed, is not capable of applying the laws, but is passing another law to show that they are doing something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27195	Mr. Vesenovic, since you insisted on respecting the Rules of Procedure, this time I give you a warning for the reasons why you have cited a series of inaccuracies regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. None of the settings you set are true. It is not true that obstructions have been made, that the reputation of the congregation has been violated. So, please, take care of it in the future. Ljiljana Lucic, on what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27196	Member 107, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27197	Mrs. Lucic, once an advertised member of 107, you have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27198	You were explaining that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure just violated Rule 107. Rules of Procedure. You know what, there's a few of us left in parliament here. You can really do whatever you want. But if you think the public didn't see this cheap game between you and the legislator that the opposition's MPs are not allowed to replicate, you're wrong. I suggest you stop the session now and don't even let us speak in order of the speakers. That would be consistent with what we've played here, in front of the whole public, I'd say, and you've been playing a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27199	Mrs. Lucic. (Ljiljana Lučić, from the place: I accept the reminder. What do you suggest? There you go. I don't want to give you a warning. I'm not going to tell you, but there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't think I'm so insolent and you think I care about the warning right now, it's not. You understand, but you're wrong, and I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you can also look for yourself in the voting day. Are you asking us to plead? The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27200	Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the dignity of the National Assembly. I, in essence, want to support you, because I see that there is a need for frequent calls for damage to the Rules of Procedure to be obstructed by work so far. Namely, Article 104. The Rules of Procedure clearly define when, who and how has the right to achieve a replica. If the speaker speaks in a way that does not cause replication, then the replica cannot be given simply because someone needs to answer. The Rules of Procedure define that anyone who is the legislator can speak without limit. He can answer, talk for hours and hours, and that's what the Rules of Procedure gives him. Is that the best solution? Maybe not, but that's right. You can't take away your word, so your responsibility in this sense doesn't exist. I would also like to remind those MPs who, using the institution of violation of the Rules of Procedure, use offensive terms. You know, if you'd played, if I'd played, we weren't kids to play. Some others may have played a game, but we're here to seriously defend a law that protects children, pregnant women, maternity parents, and that way we'll talk seriously. The SNS parliamentary group will discuss this seriously as long as it takes. We're ready to do whatever it takes. We won't give up, we won't back down. We will show that law enforcement, in terms of this, protection of the Rules of Procedure, is very important to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27201	Thank you. Jovana Mehandzic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27202	I am advocating Article 107(1), which has just been injured on your part and because you have not warned the speaker previously that he is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, because he has made remarks from the position of the MP and the legislator of this law to some MPs who advertise the Rules of Procedure. You have failed to sanction or warn Mr Stefanovic, in the capacity of the promoter, or MPs in this assembly, at the moment he warned the MPs not to advertise the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to give me the right to a replica, because that's what this is about and that you're not taking away my right to speak, and if you do, it's only proof that this debate went in the direction in which the promoter didn't want her to go, that here it proves that, perhaps, there are interpretations of laws that apply to our thesis, or the thesis of DS. Since I see you're going to warn me to stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to go back to it. I will say again that you have just injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, because the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, which you failed to warn Mr Stefanovic that he did, because you can listen to the session footage, look at exactly what was said. Mr. Stefanovic made warnings. He's changed the role he's in today. It is assumed that the President of the Assembly is also in the seat, not just the legislator of this law. So, I'm asking you to still maintain order at this session as this house does.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27203	I'm going to tell you right now that I'm not going to give you a replica, but I once said, first of all, to answer you. Secondly, I haven't come to the knowledge or knowledge at all or I don't know what word to use, that in any way the dignity of the Assembly has been violated by the President of the Assembly, nor has he warned anyone here, and my right is not to tell anyone, and I beg you, let us not abuse or speak words that do not stand. If you want, we can make a statement in the voting day, okay, you want, then we'll make a statement. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27204	Mr. Chairman, I am advocating Article 103(2) and I will be very precise and Article 104(3). So, I highly appreciate your permissiveness, and Article 104 of Section 3 says - on the use of the rights set out in Article 1, which is the right to replication and the 2nd member, is decided by the President of the National Assembly. More than once, while esteemed counterpart Komic led the session, I was warned that the rights to the replica were decided exclusively and the discretionary right of Parliament's president. So, we have not brought this Rules of Procedure, he is an inherited act that was brought before us and I respect your permissiveness, but I stand by your side, as regards the right to replication, and if one chairor does so, it is normal for the other vice-president of the Assembly and the other chair to apply the same rules applied by the esteemed colleague Mrs. Komic. As for Article 103(2), I would like to say that the Rules of Procedure have been slightly injured, because the MP cannot point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly of what has already been indicated. You're an esteemed colleague who spoke before me, yet gave that right, although the speaker before her advertised the violation of article 107, and she also did, advertised the injury of the same member, in parallel, which, according to the interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, and I think that the teachers of law will agree with me, because almost the Rules of Procedure excludes such an opportunity, but I appreciate your permissiveness and will not ask to vote, and I will always advocate that you tolerate the opposition which you do not tolerate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27205	Mr. Risticevic, you've confirmed what I've had right to be chaired in terms of giving a replica. As for article 107, you're partly right, and I've allowed it, and that's my tolerance, because you don't always have to look at the letter of the law, that's the easiest thing, so I don't suppose you're going to ask to vote? Okay, thank you. Ljiljana Miladanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27206	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am speaking to you about the bill on the exercise of the right to health care and to point out several important facts. In the past, we have witnessed that employers do not pay contributions. As this is a common phenomenon, citizens cannot exercise their rights under the law. I mean, the rights that come out of mandatory health insurance, and it's a big problem if pregnant women, maternity parents and children come into this situation. As a society, we owe so much to provide health care to these categories of the population, even though they don't have a certified health book. It happened in practice that certain births or children do not have health care, because the employer did not pay contributions, so the health book is not certified, or when children are concerned, their parents are not paid contributions and children themselves cannot be examined, nor can they be provided with health care. All the way forward, it clearly indicates why we need a law like this, to try and solve a problem, a problem that is ahead of us, and that happens almost every day, and that we meet, if not us, at least by us close people. The problem is that we try to resolve how legally, by adopting this bill, and by monitoring how the provisions of this law are implemented. We must not allow this law to be applied consistently in practice, and we must all stand for it together. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for special protection for families, mothers, families and children. Thus, this bill imposes itself on us as a kind of obligation from the aspect that these are categories of people who need special protection. Under the current and applicable regulations of the Republic of Serbia, there is no possibility of granting children, pregnant women and maternity leave up to one year after delivery the right to health care and when health certificates are not certified, due to unpaid contributions to compulsory health insurance, without doing otherwise to the regulations governing the area of health insurance and the contribution to compulsory social security. I especially point out whether someone is guilty, because his employer is not paying contributions and how real his responsibility is, whether a pregnant woman can be responsible in any way, why her employer did not pay the contributions and whether one child, whom you will agree with me, unprotected, should bear the consequences, because his parent's employer did not pay the contributions. This bill is, in fact, a way to regulate the right of pregnant women, births, up to one year after birth, and children to be entitled to health care, whether their IDs, whether they are books or cards, have been certified. However, whether the employer has paid them contributions which are mandatory under the law, this way we provide protection to those who need the same protection and most needed. First of all, I have to point out that these three categories of the population may be the most sensitive, that they need more health care, and from that point of view, I think that a law like this should ultimately be supported. In addition to the right to healthcare, Article 3 of this proposal gives those categories the right to compensation for transport costs for the use of healthcare provided to them by this law. Also, Article 4 of this proposal provides for the right to health care to be exercised through a health insurance document, but this document does not have to be certified if it serves as evidence of the identity and identity of the insured person. And let me finish a few more sentences. The proposal for a law on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women is necessary and essential to support the law in the day of voting. We were all kids once. Should we let the same children not have the right to be treated? We're all somebody's kids. Our mothers were pregnant, should we allow pregnant women to be treated for someone's failures or whatever we call it, they have no right to be treated. Some of us women, who are MPs, were on maternity leave and we know what it's like. Are we allowed to allow foster parents not to have the right to health care? I once again point out, I ask you unanimously in the voting day to support this bill for the sake of children, our children, because of pregnant women, future mothers, who are already mothers, the new way in which this bill is adopted, we will show responsibility for this category of population, we will show how much we actually care for them. I call upon you once again that, in the day of the vote, by adopting this law, we show how important our children are, how important our mothers are and how much we care for our families. The Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day will support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27207	The word has the People's MP Vesna Stepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27208	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to say at the very beginning that the SPS parliamentary group in the day of the vote will support the draft law we are discussing today and that in the future we will propose and support all laws that will affect the improvement of the position of women, mothers and children as the most sensitive categories of the population. I would especially point out, not only as an MP, but as the mother of fifteen monthly twins, so I am proud to point out the importance of this law. The main objective of this proposal for a law will contribute to improving the situation of unemployed pregnant women and pregnant women. Pregnancy is a natural state and a blessing that is unique to a woman and should be accepted as such. I worked during my pregnancy. I was fortunate to have carried out my twin pregnancy without any health problems, and I had health insurance. Also, I had special security and support from my party, the Socialist Party of Serbia, which is why I want every future pregnant woman, and later in Serbia, to have support and to feel protected in her blessed state. In addition to those mentioned for pregnant women and pregnant women, it is important to assist her local self-government in the form of monetary compensation. I believe this part of the law will speed up and encourage future mothers to decide on motherhood as soon as possible, because there's really nothing more beautiful than that. In front of us today, there is a bill on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women. Pregnant women, maternity parents, and children are the most sensitive categories in society, and we should pay special attention to them. The reason for that is a lot. When we talk about pregnant women, they know that they need additional care and attention, for the sake of preserving the pregnancy and the birth of a healthy child. At the very least, they need to have difficulties with health insurance and stress that can be experienced in relation to the exercise of the right to health care. Another important reason is the fact that the results of medical institutions from state health institutions are recognised in public health institutions, but not from private laboratories, and for this reason health insurance is important. When we talk about a child's supplement, it is the following – 2.535 dinars for one child in a whole family at the monthly level, 3,295 dinars for one child in the case of single parents. When we talk about the parental allowance, it is the following: for the first child 36,743 dinars, for the second 143,680 dinars, for the third 258,613 dinars, for the fourth 344,813 dinars. In the municipality of Vladimirci, local self-government pays a parental allowance for the first child of 8,000 dinars, for the second 10,000 dinars, and for the third and next child 12,000 dinars, whether parents are employed or not. In the town of Šapcu, about 15,000 dinars are made for the first child, whether the mother is employed or not, for the second and next child for the unemployed mothers, the amount is 15,000 dinars and for the employees of 10,000 dinars. According to local self-government, Vladimirs, of the total number of applications submitted, only 15% are mothers who are employed. I would especially like to emphasise, while also commending the municipality of Vladimirci, which allocates more funds from its budget compared to the town of Sabac, although it belongs to an undeveloped municipality. The most important thing is for this law to achieve its purpose and to encourage young married couples, to decide on family enlargement and to make Serbia a country in which many children will be born in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27209	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Jelena Trivan. You've got six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27210	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is indisputable at the end of the day that we will agree on something and we will not agree on anything. On the purpose of this law, we have lauded a lot, and obviously we will not find a common language about it, but we will find common language that it has a noble intention in its ultimate place and that it should help those who are most vulnerable. We'll also agree that today we've all shown one incredible institutional impotence together. We said we had laws that don't apply, we said we had employers who don't pay contributions, even though the law obliges them, even though we have a criminal policy, that we have a labour law that isn't respected, so pregnant women get kicked out of work, or when they come back from maternity leave, they give an inadequate job. We agreed not to respect the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. We'll agree on two things, which is that there is a systemic problem here in the state and society, that laws are not respected and institutions are not doing their job. Today we would have to ask ourselves about at least one 10 institutions what they did or didn't do, which is why we're passing this law today, what is being done by Frankfurt, the Commissioner for Equality, the Government, the Tax Police and, in the end, what has been done by the Assembly, which should be controlled at the end and to ensure law enforcement. So it is very bad that all of us today have proved powerless and found the ultimate solution to pass another law, because the citizens will ask us at the end of this day – and what is the guarantee that this law will be implemented. That you won't be able to tell us in a year – everything was systemically bad, so even this law as a solution failed to help us. As I was preparing for today's debate, I remembered the famous health minister, Tomica Milosavljevic, who will be remembered for many things badly, but mostly in my memory as a man who abolished the compensation for pregnancy. When he did it, he explained that he did it because there are numerous abuses, so women who don't even have to maintain pregnancy are using it rightly. It didn't occur to him to introduce internal control, to solve the abuse within the health care system, but to punish pregnant women and to abolish everyone's right. Thanks to his stubbornness, seven years later we have returned that right or we will only have it in the next budget, and in the meantime we have had a thousand solutions, such as that the city of Belgrade will give full compensation, and those poor like Vladic's Han will not, so women there will be deprivileged. I'm afraid that today we're trying to do the same thing, that with the good intentions that we all have today and that we're going to vote for this law, we're trying to solve the illogicalness and the unhappiness of the whole system, and that's what I'm worried about today. Most of all, I am concerned about the reputation of this House, since it is he who is obliged to enforce the laws. He is the one who is guaranteed to enforce the law, which today admitted that we do not even enforce constitutional provisions. Because thousands of examples here are indicated that constitutional provisions on the protection of pregnant women and children are not being implemented. So today, parliament will admit that we do not respect the Constitution and that we will settle it by passing a new law, and that we all together today look like citizens to the one who looks at the side of the fight and yell "keep me from killing them", and in fact there is nothing he can do about it. So I ask you, Chairman, to discuss together at the end of the day how to ensure that this law is implemented, because other than your agreement with the Director of the Fund, we have no real guarantee. One guarantee is criminal policy and for every commendation is that you have introduced it into the law, but we have no guarantee that it will be implemented. There's a criminal policy in every area, but no one's punishing anyone. No one in this country pays taxes. Every day we have a list of debtors, no one pays contributions. The second guarantee is money. Don't say we didn't have the money to run this thing next year. That is why I ask you, as soon as the debate on this law is over, we sit down and talk about proposing together amendments to the budget, in which there is no means for your law and position for your law, that what you have agreed becomes a legal obligation. So, a lot of things we can disagree on, but don't doubt that our parliamentary group will do everything for the benefit of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27211	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27212	Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Chairman, you held a session today with very unequal criteria, compared to whether it was a position or an opposition you were giving or not. You have done, in one word, the repression of the opposition, making it impossible for them to express their stance on this law. Mr. Chairman, we weren't afraid of Milosevic either. We are not afraid of you or your coalition partners, but we will not be a decor in this congregation where you are making it impossible for us to work. Now after this, probably, Mr. Stefanovic should be talking for 20 minutes and we should not get a word after that. That is why the Democratic Party, MPs of the Democratic Party, will leave the Assembly because of the fact that you have been acting past the Rules of Procedure and past the good rules of conduct so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27213	Let me give you an explanation. The statement by the deputy president of the DS Group does not stand. You heard it yourself, at least you are present. I didn't deny anyone the right, not once, but I followed the Rules of Procedure. No one can ask on the one hand for the chairman to hold the Rules of Procedure to one side and tolerate that right to others. What's said today is that the opposition is required to have the privilege. I'm not going to allow that position or opposition. If I'm not good at it, I'm always ready to retire. I'm not even a bully here, I don't lead any terror. On the contrary, I think I'm extremely correct with everyone. This is what I needed to say because very difficult words have been said here. I'm not even a Free Milosevic, I've never been, I won't be. I wasn't in any other political position. This is my biggest function. But also where I had power and where I could exercise power, I didn't act like one, and I'm not going to act like one here. On the contrary, I will give every right in spirit with the Noble Messenger. I'm not a sinless man, and I'm always ready to apologize and retire. I'm not vain in that sense, but the opposite side has to convince me. I thank you. The proposaler of the law is Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27214	I wasn't going to answer at all, nor was I, which you can testify, and it can also be seen in the system, that at the moment the previous speaker spoke, I wasn't even registered for a word, nor was I going to talk about anything she said. I can even say that in one part of her discussion, I can agree with the arguments that have been made and that we all have to work on it together. So I was a little surprised why such a gesture followed the speech of one of the MPs. It would make sense that it was done if it was a matter of sincere desire. It should be done at the moment when they thought you made a mistake that I'm convinced wasn't there. However, calculatorically doing so after a speech by one of the MPs of the group, when almost everyone else in that parliamentary group said, shows me how deeply I care about this parliamentary group of the law. When I say it to this law, I mean the rights that a certain group of people are meant to exercise. I have a right to say that. As President of Parliament, I am often in a position where you are today, to chair sessions that are not always easy. I want to tell you, as human support, that I think everything you've done, you've done rightly, that you haven't made any mistakes. Because some of us are more skilled at using the Rules of Procedure, so they don't cause replicas, it's business skills. The MPs of other opposition MPs sometimes do so, so angry MPs from my MP group, who say, give us the right to a replica, but these people didn't mention the party either, they didn't mention the individual, they didn't speak directly of his discussion offensively, and these are the basics defined by Article 104. Rules of Procedure. However, we here have a law which, I am confident, MPs who are willing to talk today about, who are here with us today, consider a good law, with all the shortcomings of our health system, which everyone has spoken about and I believe we all agree. That was said by MPs from the SPS parliamentary group, whose party also belongs to the minister. We're all aware that the problems don't come from yesterday. I'm sorry that some people don't realize that the essence of Parliament is to fight with arguments, using time that no one can take away from you. In this House, the opposition vice-presidents also held the presidency at the very least today as much as the deputy prime minister from the ranks. I think it has fully shown the democracy of the relationship this Parliament has with everyone. Besides, the law ahead of us needs this category of people who can't exercise their rights... I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't get it. Not everyone's right, unfortunately. If someone gives it to them outside the law, it's not the right thing to do. If someone goes to the store, so the seller doesn't charge you for what you took, he's damaged the store, he's damaged the owner, he's damaged the budget. He can do that, it's not a violation of the law in terms of private action, but it is a violation of the law in terms of health care. We have also seen this in the talks and with the Fund, but also with other relevant institutions of this state, with a relevant professional public. I don't know what the relevant public is if representatives of both the Ministry and the Fund and serious doctors are sitting behind me right now at least 10 doctors. SNS MPs are in parliament today, arguing, speaking, not hard for them. It's not hard for them to talk about the law, it's not hard for them to sit until nightfall, to earn their wages, because it's our job. Our job is, and we get solid big wages, I don't do demagogues, they're not too huge, but the average is huge. We earn these wages by fighting for the rights of citizens. We in parliament don't fight by digging canals. We fight by proposing laws, by discussing these laws, by providing arguments, and that's our job. In this case, the arguments are inexorable. One category of our citizens who are employed cannot exercise some of their rights if their books are not certified. We eliminate that problem today. These people, mothers, pregnant women and maternity mothers, as angry as anyone is and has tried to represent it for political reasons as a discrepancy because of the alleged conduct of your session, are the main issues and it has really nothing to do with you. The point of the problem is they find it hard to admit that this is a good law. They regret that they didn't think of it, that they hadn't proposed it in many years. They had five, six, ten years to propose and adopt, and they didn't. These categories were not right all this time and these people today are unable to say, and that's what you said, size is just saying – so this is great, it's good law, we're helping this thing. Well, this isn't my private law. This is a law that will allow that category of population to live better. In impotence, they first accuse you, which is pointless. You've been doing your job professionally, and I'm telling you that as someone who's been doing that job part of the time for the last year and a half. After all, I also feel the same way about Mrs. Komic's presidency – very professionally and responsibly. Someone might like the chairman's decision or not like it. He may think he's leaning over here or over there, but we're people and we have a personality. Anyway, I've been in the O.R. all day, and I haven't noticed a single breach of the Rules of Procedure. I even think that, as I am also trying to do, and I think that it is in the good spirit of parliamentary democracy, you were very tolerant, and when we used to throw out of power, when we threw out the opposition, when there was a debate on topics that had nothing to do with this law, but in the spirit of democracy, you let this debate run, and that's why I thank you, for allowing us to discuss this law of ten this morning. So now it's almost 1900 hours and we're discussing nine hours, if we count the break, of this important law. I'm sorry that all those who criticise the law don't have the courage to say to the citizens that they won't vote for it. Do you know why they don't have the courage? Because they know that it takes their political rating and only because it all comes down to political ratings, because it all comes down to marketing, these people didn't want to say it openly. I didn't say that now, I said that ten times today. I've mentioned Article 17 and Article 22 ten times, maybe 20 times. Twenty times I said someone could have health insurance and what categories they don't have today, both after MPs from the government and after MPs from the opposition. I've been repeating the same things to the minors, but someone who doesn't respond to it finds that it applies to his exposure. Anyway, that wasn't absolutely true. I tried to make sure in today's day, I'm glad some of them showed it themselves, show all the differences about how we understand politics in this country, how we understand parliament, how we understand democracy and our obligations and our rights. They're not ambassadors of the holy cow. We're not the only ones who have rights. People's MPs also have obligations. They have obligations to the citizens, obligations to society. We have no obligation only to the citizens who voted for us, because it does not stand so in the Constitution. We have a duty to all citizens of this country. It is our duty to ensure the equality of this society. It is our obligation to ensure that every mother, pregnant, maternity and child has equal conditions to have health care and every other kind of protection. This Parliament will do so. Unconnected from whether we're in power today or tomorrow in opposition, that's our job. As a member of the SNS, I am proud that we have started to work on this law since June, looking for a common solution with the Fund, to avoid today, and not our fault today, to even talk about it as political law. I was deliberately, not wanting this to be just a SNS project, that someone doesn't say here we avoid, we respect our coalition partners, you're our coalition partner, you're going to vote for this bill because you think it's good, at least I hope so, but we wanted to avoid this as a political project of a party, proposed as a national MP. That's the minimum I could get. I wanted to show that this kind of political approach, avoiding the politicalization of party placement, is important for this society, that the topics that are equal for everyone, which are the protection of pregnant women, mothers, children and maternity, improve their conditions and give God every day talk about it. If we had talked less about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, we could have talked more about how to secure another scanner, how to ensure that the epidural is no longer paid, how to provide better conditions in maternity homes. I've had this opportunity to provide my wife with an epidural, to have my daughter born in good conditions, to pay for it, but how many people can't? How many women have problems at the most important moment in their life, when they are born, when they are extremely sensitive, when they bring into the world a new life? God forbid we spend more time talking about these topics, because if we are in favour of greater women's rights, and we are in favour not only when we talk about them as mothers, but as professionals, as MPs, as serious experts, as managers, then we should also show it in action. If there's no immediate need, I won't answer the word again. I want to thank all the participants in today's debate, who showed that they don't know the party differences, that they don't find it hard to admit that some law is good, that they don't find it hard to say that someone has come up with something that allows a greater right, because it's human and it's normal and that there are no party differences when everyone in the voting day presses that button that we vote for, because we vote for women, for mothers, for children, for their rights. We don't vote for Nebojsa Stefanovic or anyone else. That's what the citizens in the election will do. We vote here for better rights of all citizens of Serbia. And I personally thank you for staying in one difficult debate all day, which, apart from those few brief moments when you were out of the O.R., when I was able to explain to you what was going on in the O.R. in that absence, you were here all day and you sat down with this. I thank you once again as vice president who is doing a very good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27215	Thank you. Let me say that the Democratic Party left the room when there was one minute and 30 seconds left. So much for that. The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27216	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, Mr Stefanovic, I would only like to get involved in the shortest lines in the debate on the bill's proposal and give him full support. I see the adoption of such a solution as the realization of one in a series of efforts to at least ease the accumulated multi-annual, long-standing injustices. The task is primarily to protect the most vulnerable categories, and these are certainly pregnant women, maternity parents and children, although the truth is not the only one. What I would especially like to draw attention to here is a possible problem with the adoption of sublegal acts necessary for this law to be implemented in practice. Excessive administration and possible impunity can lead to a dissension of the legislator's intention and to compromise this above all human and honorable intention. Of course, in this case, it is also a question of all the questions where and how to find money for child health insurance, pregnant women and maternity care, as well as how it all fits into the concept of savings, to which we have committed as a state and society. Should it be mentioned at all that investment in the protection of the health of the nation is not a cost but an investment and a good, safe and sustainable investment, unlike many others, which have been completely missed and that it must not be spared at the expense of the essential needs of those on which it rests not only the future, but also national state survival. Otherwise, it's costing an incomparable amount of money later. Besides, saving means rationalising costs, first of all, and that's not where the loudest supposed public cashiers are celebrated today. Thus, no one can explain how so many official cars and their regular expenses. Not to list many trips, where the greatest effect was meeting at the airport, say, with themselves. Well, then, our great economic ambassadors, of whom the presidency of exclusive world destinations has not seen a single dinar. And it's just the luxurious renovations of cabinets, even low-level state-owned deputies, who have been set up unorthodoxly and exclusively for setting up public procurement jobs. So famous leather jackets for officials of one of the ministries, obtained at the expense of taxpayers, whose skin they can neither imagine nor imagine themselves. After all, who is allowed to take responsibility for the inability to provide health care for pregnant women, maternity and children, and may a well - arranged society leave it to the verse? That is why we should ignore all the entrenched remarks about populistism, about investing in citizens ahead of elections and similar corny phrases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27217	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's much of a pity that the gentlemen of the Democratic Party came out of the O.R. because they obviously didn't have anything significant to say anymore. I just wanted to look back on a few things, given that we're already out of time, and that's been mentioned here on several occasions. Namely, a constitutional right to health care has been guaranteed, and that is legally regulated. I am saying this more because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of MPs who know it all anyway. Namely, what's this about? The legislator gave it exactly in the Constitution, so the constitutional founder and legislator gave the right to health care for everyone. However, neither they could nor dealt with who was funding and how this health care was financed. It's regulated by other acts. It is absolutely pointless to call on us to have this law already and that this law, which Mr. Stefanovic gave us, is too high. He's all just not superfluous. He's very good and very noble. If we take an example, again because of Serbian citizens, although he has repeated and explained it several times, but I cannot believe that MPs of a certain parliamentary group were unable and did not want to understand it, if the X-Yellow patient, whether he is a child, pregnant or maternity, comes into the office, he wants to exercise his right to treatment. The library he owns gives him that right. However, until now, unless contributions or taxes have been paid to farmers, they had no right to do so. That's the point and that's what Mr. Stefanovic kept explaining. We have changed it precisely by this noble law, which is that the doctor is no longer in the dilemma of what to do – whether to break the law, on the one hand, and still receive this patient, or to return it, which is extremely unprofessional and inhumane, above all. This is exactly the law that regulated it. So we don't pay attention to whether or not it owns a stamp, whether or not contributions are paid, it's the subject of other institutions. In this case, a fragile group such as children, maternity and pregnant women will be examined and they will be given health care, or help. That's what's fundamental in this law. I would like to say that it is rare that the law in this House was as good, or as noble, as this law was given by Mr Stefanovic. I would publicly, on behalf of children, maternity, pregnant women, in the end, also be a professional, and on behalf of all pediatricians and gynecologists of Serbia, thank this law that has been passed. Because, I'm saying, almost in Parliament, it wasn't as noble a law as this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27219	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27220	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the Assembly, and the motion of this law, colleagues and colleagues, I will not repeat so many things that have been said here. We've lost significant time in the great replicas that were. I'd look back on just a few things that are very important in this law. This is to provide and enable the provision of health care services to maternity, pregnant and children when the necessary medical insurance documents are not certified, due to the unpaid contribution to health insurance, which so far has not been possible. This bill is the only way to provide health care for these categories in a legally valid manner, without jeopardising other regulations. What is also important in this law is that, in addition to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women, cost compensation is also important for transporting to the place of use of health services. This is because in some cases it was not possible to compensate for travel expenses and children, pregnant women, and maternity care could not have reached a place where they would have been treated with real health care. In addition, the law also defines obligations, which are primarily gynecologists, to transfer the knowledge of termination of pregnancy to the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and then the obligation of a health care institution to inform the Republic Health Insurance Fund if the parent is to have a dead child, and that the parent who gave birth to a dead child has the right to health care. Then, the obligation of a pediatrician, who has knowledge of the death of a child for up to a year of life, is required to notify the Republic Health Insurance Fund. As for criminal provisions for individuals and institutions, I find them quite appropriate. Significantly, only the implementation of this law does not burden the Republic of Serbia's budget. It has already been on the board, that a certain position in the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund will be envisaged for this. Not to repeat, we expected support, I think that will happen, from all parties in parliament, for such a noble law on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27221	The word has a folk MP Milanka Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27222	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the discussion is going on as we've heard nine or ten hours and it's really been exhausting and positive. It's a shame we don't have a full O.R. right now, because this subject and this law deserve a full O.R. I would say a little bit about this subject and this law that we are discussing today, because I think it is one in a series of laws that should be passed, which are aimed at solving one of the most important problems in Serbia today, which is a drastic decline in the birth rate, i.e. a terrible reduction in the number of inhabitants of our country. I think it's high time, but it's also the task of all of us together to realize that the survival of the nation is the most important issue and that all necessary and available means should be directed at encouraging young people to create families. This law is one to that end. I'd say just one piece of information. The latest census in Serbia, which was made in 2011, and compared to the previous 2002 census, gives us information that by nine years only the population in Serbia has been reduced by almost 380,000 people, which is a frantic data for me and a worrying, very worrying data. In addition, to mention the great sadness of leaving a large number of young and educational people all these years, 30 to 40,000 a year, which is indeed alarming data. I think we should all do everything possible to change that. The fall of birth in our country is great. I wouldn't do statistics, I have them all here, but most MPs have already said that today. Just one more piece of information, the birth rate dropped from 10.5% to 9.2% per thousand, just for the last 10 years. If we don't do everything we can on this topic today, on the issue of birth rate growth, but tomorrow, I speak figuratively, and tomorrow it probably means one century, which for one country and one nation is not a long period of history, there may not be a Serbia either. What will people call our country and what will they call Serbia if there are no more Serbs in our country? So I think this is the most important national and strategic issue and this is one small but yet large step towards achieving that goal -- the growth of the nation's birth and preservation. Not to mention the Constitution again. This was about the Constitution. Of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees special protection for families, mothers, single parents and children, especially mothers during and after childbirth. The Constitution and the law of course prescribe and provide for all these rights, above all this category of our population, but in practice there are often major problems, i.e. The law and the Constitution are not rarely followed. So, the difficult economic situation in the country that has culminated in this major global economic crisis, but in our country, the crisis has arisen much earlier and is the result of the rule of former authorities or regimes, so to speak, and their indifference above all for family, wife, child, mother, maternity, pregnant, etc. These previous authorities have largely chosen their problems, their interests, and that is why we are in this situation today, and that is why we are discussing this topic today. I really welcome the promoter, and I believe that this law will certainly be passed by the majority of votes in parliament, but I am expressing my dissatisfaction that the opposition has left this session, in my opinion unwarrantedly. I'm sorry, not the opposition, but the Democratic Party, I apologize. All of these birth-reduction causes that I've listed are really numerous and I wouldn't list them because we all know what kind of problems are present today in our country, in our society, but I would stress that all these problems discourage young people from creating families, building them and giving birth to children because of the overall situation. So many went and went, looking for a place where those rights or their basic needs would satisfy them. We should, of course, as a state to do everything possible for these young people to come back. There is also an economic situation, which is difficult in the country and I am convinced that our coalition and our government, as it does, will witness their efforts to improve this situation and create a more favourable investment environment in our country, so I am convinced that we will succeed. How long will it take, how long will it take for all of this, certainly not a little, given what's been going on all these years and the situation that we found when the government changed. We recently passed a law that a woman in employment can't do during pregnancy or a year after birth to get fired from her employer. However, we have made many legal solutions, we have made some decisions, i.e. They brought it before us, in favor of this, but in practice it was not achieved. That is why I believe that the previous government, or that the authorities that have been responsible for this category of our population for the past ten years, is most important to me, is that their negligence and dishonesty in all that they have declared as their objectives, and in practice it was quite the opposite. Of course, there is an increase in the number of educated women in Serbia every day, but they are still discriminated against both at work and in the family, even on the street, experiencing various things etc., and I believe that the woman really deserves all the respect. Like all my colleagues, and all the women in Serbia, I think a woman deserves really maximum attention, because she has everything on her. I'd even dare say the whole state, considering she's a pillar of the family, and the family is a pillar of every serious state. I've prepared a little longer exposure, but I'm still gonna use my time to get it all out. I wanted to give a very nice example, a positive example of solving these problems, the problem of falling birth in some countries. As an example, I did not take economically developed countries, such as Canada or, say, Scandinavian countries and similar countries, than I've just taken one country where I've been in more than one time, where we do some work, which is Belarus. I just want you to hear it, because I'm guessing most of you may not know how they're dealing with the problem of birth and how they stimulate the growth of birth. Let's say, in that country, if you know, and you've heard probably from Dragomir, the unemployment rate is slightly higher than 1%. It is not economically strong, nor strong, of course, but it is a stable and organised state. Women in that country get four extras after childbirth. The first supplement is for women registered with state health institutions up to 12 weeks of pregnancy at 83 euros. The second addition is for the birth of the first child – 830 euros. For the second and the next child, the addition is 1.160 euros. The next supplement for child care is up to three years old, about 170 euros a month. Then, the supplement for the care of a disabled child or a child with special needs up to three years of age is 182 euros a month, a free kindergarten, etc. Since April last year, by decision of the President of the Republic, all children under the age of three receive free medications from a list of medicines listed as basic medicines. Furthermore, there's so much, that it's really impressive, I was impressed to see and read there. In order to make a comprehensive approach to state aid to low-income families, it was also given the right last April to simultaneously receive different types of targeted social assistance. In this system, different types of targeted social assistance to families, such as Baby food supply during the first two years of life, the state took it upon itself. Families where twins were born are entitled to this type of state support without proof of income. Working or not working, they get that help from the state. Then significant investments are aimed at improving the living conditions of young families and families with many children. Financial assistance to families in the payment of loans for construction, or reconstruction of housing, as in families with three children 75% of the amount of debt, and in the case of four or more children 100% and many other measures. I think we should look at examples like this. For example, in the last year, 116,000 children were born, which is 5.2% more than in the previous year. That's how they encourage talent. Unlike these countries where the number of newborns is the most important goal for the survival of the nation, in our country the attention of the previous ruling elite, as I said, was directed at everything else, I would say before this. This country or the ruling elite has, in the meantime, become even more difficult and has brought us into the situation that we are in today. However, economic difficulties obviously did not apply when huge budgets were spent on various imaginary and unnecessary agencies, party employment, non-intentional and, I do not say, criminal use of funds of development and other funds and many, many other things. I just want to point out that there are always funds and they have to be found for this kind of purpose. Respecting the extraordinary efforts made by our ruling coalition and above all by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to solve these problems, and all other burning problems, I must repeat once again for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for all of us together, that the final moment and the task of all of us to realize that truly the survival of the nation is the most important state issue. It is therefore necessary to find the means, and the means must be, in order to encourage the young world and to encourage young women to be born. As the mother of four children and grandmothers of three grandchildren and women who have been engaged in over 30 years of charity, preserving the tradition and value of the Serbian family and cultural heritage of the Serbian people, I will, of course, vote and support this law and I am confident that we will adopt this law with the majority of votes in parliament and that is what makes me happy. I think this is just one small step in what we should do when it comes to children, first of all, women, pregnant women, maternity parents, a new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27223	Thank you, too. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. We still have Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27224	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, dear parents and future parents, as a mother, as a doctor of gynecology and obstetrics who for many years provided health care services to pregnant women and pregnant women, both at the primary and secondary levels of health care, I can say that this bill is above all human, i.e. Noble. This bill of law is primarily the need and demand of the time in which we live. The fight for birth, the care of children, and we know that children are carriers of the biological potential that is necessary for the survival of a nation. We care about family, pregnant women, maternity and other vulnerabilities of the population are one of the most important segments of one country's social and health policy, and so is our country's. In this context, the legislator of this law Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and we together with him, I want this law to protect the highest values in our society, and these are children, children who are yet to be born, to protect the health of mothers and future mothers, to stimulate birth and stop the white plague. This law needs to be passed by emergency procedure because we cannot wait and we do not have time to wait for payments from non-leading taxpayers but we must protect the most sensitive population of our society, and these are children, pregnant women, maternity parents. We want this law, i.e. only through the law form, to confirm the practice of the RZZ that existed until half of 2010 when these same insurance companies were certified documents without proof of previous payment of contributions. The Republic Health Insurance Office recognized the importance of protecting this category of population, which is why it made such decisions. This bill is clear, precise and does not require the adoption of sublegal acts because it does not enter into the basis of the insurance already established under the Health Insurance Act but only these persons referred to in Article 17. The Health Insurance Act that, with existing documents and minimum medical documentation for pregnant women, it is a report by a specialist, gynecologist, an obstetrics on the existence of pregnancy, a maternity leave that allows for the achievement of the necessary health care and compensation of travel costs for transport, although the health document is not certified due to unpaid contributions. I call on all MPs to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27225	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27226	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, when I saw that this law was on the agenda, the bill, I was thinking about why at least this proposal wasn't for example being discussed with the Women's Parliamentary Network because it would agree and, we over 80 as many of us as there are going to be as a member or we were users of this law anyway. Perhaps some of us would have remembered that when we couldn't remember ourselves to make a similar legal solution for the benefit of maternity and pregnant women, perhaps we could have made a modest contribution to that very meeting of the Women's Parliamentary Network. But, well, it's a different story now, not the topic of today's debate. Of course, we will agree that we need to improve the position of pregnant women and maternity mothers, children, but we are also aware that this law as it says in the explanation is being passed because unconscious employers who are no longer paying social and health insurance contributions. First of all, it's important because of those most sensitive categories I've mentioned. How to solve that problem. Regardless of what we've heard, it doesn't mean the upheaval of these unconscious employers, but we need to think about this problem, or solve this problem. I'd like to ask if the commitment of this government is to advance and stimulate natality and how does it mean to do so? I know that people from the ruling majority don't particularly think about it, but there must be far-reaching and long-term thinking. I didn't notice that in the previous period. Because the cause of today's white plague is in the crisis years of the '90s. We can't do something with one law, an instant solution, and we can't improve Natalie. We must completely change the population policy in the state of Serbia if we are to survive because we do not need these specific laws to do so. For example, if a pregnant woman is satisfied if she is happy, she will certainly reflect on her unborn child. I'm sure all those mothers who've probably been giving birth before know that. If the family has time, she has the resources she can raise her child nicely, raise him until she goes to school. Also, if she has the means and if she has the time, she will deal with the education of her child while she is in school and those children will become educated and educated people. If parents have time and resources to take care of their children and stadiums, we'll have fans, not hooligans, as it happens today more and more. I, as a young person, really expect from the state, as an institution to do what I have mentioned now to be achieved and I repeat that instant changes have never brought the desired results to date, so I don't believe that this will be the case now. We also need to be aware that for the maternity and pregnant women besides health care, we need to worry about how and how they come back, they're returning VAT from baby equipment, baby equipment, that law we had a few months ago, it seems to me before the end of last year, and now we have a problem that only, I think, September of the month began in the IRS to receive those bills for baby equipment that was bought before the birth of the child. So for a long time our parents couldn't do it. So that was a big problem. There has also been a problem with what we have talked about before that there are no payments for pregnant, maternity care through employers, but it should go directly to the expense of maternity care, because there are some problems that are primarily made in the late payment of those benefits, both for maternity and maternity leave, so it happens that for maternity leave, although it must be done by law, it is paid for the wages, but very often employers do not. Of course, families can sue their employers, but of course these processes are long and financially exhausting so that everything in all of this ends up nothing. For example, how can we help? The state may, as ordered for many other things, as ordered by it to pay jubilee rewards for different employees in different sectors and areas, order local self-government to pay 35 percent of the compensation, those at 65% for pregnancy care, so why didn't you propose that kind of law or amend some law on the subject. This could be done and we say for example – we will abolish the transfer funds to local self-government if they do not pay it to pregnant women. That's how we help the population policy in Serbia anyway. We should give mothers who have a fourth child a life pension, why not? But what the situation is now, we would have to give it to mothers with a third child. So, not to say that stimulation is for the first and second children, and now for the third, very small and almost destimulating. We have major sterility problems in Serbia and now it is likely that this low natural growth, or negative natural growth, for this reason, and we somehow do not have enough resources for this artificial fertilisation. When the budget was rebalanced, the funds were reduced at the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and they announce, you know, we'll see what the priority is, and we'll figure out the resources on that basis, so we'll see if it can be artificial insemination. When it comes to children, is there an alternative? So it certainly has to be a priority. This should be considered, in addition to the means, to see how and how the procedures that women who enter the process of artificial insemination, to shorten themselves, to simplify themselves, and to simply define them in a different way, so that those women who go through incredible stress, to get into the process of artificial insemination and have children, almost for these reasons can't solve it and these results can't be successful. I mentioned that the problems are big, as far as maternity and maternity care compensation is concerned, the Republic Labour Inspectorate is, of course, responding, but by punishing either monetaryally or launching a misdemeanour procedure, but I'm saying that so far has not produced great results, and these pregnant women are not able to cope with the regulations in those woods, even when they're in it, they can't worry about it yet. Do you know that there's a Council for Population Policy that's met once, so since we've changed the government or reconstructed it, we now expect a new one to be created, and there seems to be nothing of it, since it hasn't met at any time in the previous period. Do you know that a parental allowance should be paid once, and now it is paid in monthly wars? Do we know what the priorities are, is it our priority to stimulate birth and what, when you're the ruling majority, are your concrete measures, to stimulate birth? So, I said that one of the very important and great causes of the lack of children and the white plague is precisely sterility. Why does it come to sterility? First because we use genetically modified food, and now we're going to legalize it through our laws. Because women are stressed about insecurity, whether they will receive or not, because of the stress at work, whether the employer will grant them that compensation for maternity and pregnancy, or not, whether they will give in time or not, whether they will fire them, God forbid, if they become pregnant, because they are complicated and long procedures, as regards the procedure of artificial insemination and, of course, all of these crises we are going through, and here we have the stress that all women and people, women who are affected, are raising taxes and the prices of basic life supplies. Mr. Stefanovic, as president of the National Assembly, to whom do you bring these laws, to whom do you raise taxes, to whom do you increase the prices of basic life supplies, to whom do you reduce bureaucracy, when we disappear? Serbia is gone and you must know that in 2012, we had 60,000 fewer people than today. Natural growth is -4.9%. I don't know if you know that. Positive natural growth in Belgrade, Grocka, Zvezda and Surcin, Novi Sad, Sjenica, Novi Pazar, Tutin, Presevo. It's a devastating data for me, which only in these municipalities is increased natural growth. Why are more babies born in Belgrade? Thank God, that's good, that just shows how centralization is in Serbia. Because people move here and thank God the children are born. But it's a huge centralization, and it's a big problem. The average age of the mother is 28.9 years. I think that's a really big problem. When you mention that you are taking care of sensitive groups of the population and that because of these sensitive groups you have passed this law, have you paid attention to the fact that at the site of the Assembly in the acts in the procedure there is a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support to the family with children proposed by the Citizens' Protector? You probably didn't think about it. This is about forms of support for children with development and disability and their families, how not even for the working parents to provide a certain amount of compensation, how to increase the addition to the assistance and care of the other person, how to make compensation for children's parents over five years. Parents with children with disabilities or with developmental disorders have only two options, according to the Citizens' Protector. It's one thing for them to quit their jobs or not to get a job at all to take care of those kids, so they don't have the means, they don't have almost any chance of surviving, and the other for them to get a job and send the kids to institutions. You know, that's a big problem. I had a case with us on Zlatibor with an extra-serially talented boy whose parents, without the help of charities and local self-government, couldn't possibly provide him with a normal life. I say the extracurricular is a talented, too smart boy, just blind from birth and it's a distraction in development. In order to provide these resources, it would be good for a little bit of the state to care, not just the people of the benefactors whom I thank God, to have enough. Mr. Stefanovic, do you worry that soon there will be no one who will use the services, to say which law defines? There will be no children, no pregnant women, no maternity leave, if we continue this way. Have you perhaps read a study called "World Development Indicators" done by the World Bank? It says -- the highest growth rate of growth will be recorded in Kosovo 0.7% annually since 2010-2020. In Serbia -0.2% a year. We have one publication that says -- why all Serbs disappear and author Biljana Spasic talks about how probably a large number of Serbian citizens would experience the fate of living in enclaves in their country. We've already experienced that in KIM. Speaking of which, you're referring to the Constitution and everything is according to the Constitution, and the Constitution tells us that one way or another, what don't you refer to the Constitution when we talk about kim? I also want to mention that there are 300 schools in Serbia with one student, that we have 250,000 single boys up to 40 years old. Besides sterility, how do we solve these problems? How do we marry these guys and how do we fill these schools with kids? You know how, the state closes schools to 15 students, we passed laws. You know, he says more rationally that those schools are closing in rural areas. Now these people who live in the country have to spend a lot more money to take the kids to some city center. We've got citizen detimulation, therefore, to stay in those smaller environments. We have the closure of the village infirmary, we have a reduction in the human health care plan at primary health care level, so, health care homes. So, everything that happens in those parts, borderline, let's say, in those provinces, all that's outside of Belgrade is the province, we destimulate it, and normally we stimulate everything that comes to Belgrade and that centralisation remains fully in force. Do you know that every family should have four children so that natural growth in Serbia is positive? Do you, Mr. Stefanovic, work on the subject to improve the birth rate and how each of our families would have four children, not that women and families would fear when they become pregnant? I am certainly only interested in concrete measures to improve the birth rate. We show once again that Serbia is a lex specialis country, a country of special laws, without any strategies and direction of development, especially in terms of birth, but also in all other areas, and with only one wish, self-promotion of advanced stars.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27227	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27228	It's hard to answer all the arguments the colleague made. But there's something I can't admit when it comes to post-wise intelligence. In fact, a young colleague was herself part of the local self-government in the Municipality of Chatin. There are now fewer than one thousand inhabitants living in the municipality of Chatetino from 1990 to 2012, which is a huge number for the Municipality of Châtina. The Tchaitina municipality, during the period when you exercised local authority in Chatitina, when you were personally part of it, did not bring stimulating measures for the birth of children. That shows this statistical data. Neither did you take measures to pay 35 percent, nor did it occur to you personally to leave that power when it was not done. It never occurred to you, nor did it worry you. At the time, it was nice for you to be a local government official, get a nice salary, enjoy it, but you didn't really take care of the kids. Also, when we talk about respecting the Constitution, Kosovo and Metohija independence was declared in 2004. Under the constitution, then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica was to apply certain measures to protect Serbia from this unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija, but it did not. It just isn't. I'm sorry, 2006. It just isn't. He decided then not to do anything. It often seems to me to me that in certain people, who decide not to do anything about certain things, just when they are in power, when they can, then this criticism that comes after a post-festum comes somehow questionable. You're not always sure if it's really a serious intention to do something, or if it's a criticism, that's for criticizing someone who's currently in power. Here we are in power, ready to face the fact that many things are not good, ready to face the fact that many things have to be changed, made the first move and changed things. This law will improve the position of a serious group of people. Far be it, what you said, that Serbia will not have children. They'll have children, they'll be children in Serbia. She will be born, thank God, and healthy and happy to her parents. Unfortunately, as for the situation in Belgrade, I can agree that it is not satisfactory either, because Belgrade is centralised. According to the 2008 Decision, the city government has centralised Belgrade municipalities and today a Belgrade municipality that has no local self-government status barely has what it can and can do at all. Two of the three you listed are in the SNS and it is obvious that citizens recognize it as good and that children are more born and that is happiness both in Grocko and in Surcin. That's good, I'm glad it turned out that way. Where we are in power, there are children born. Because people believe, they trust us. There's optimism. You can tell there's a future there. As for the Guardian of Citizens, I have been working with him seriously since the beginning of my term. The law you have stated is in the procedure. The public defender and I have spoken with representatives of the ministry and parents several times, here, in the building of the National Assembly and in my cabinet and in a small public hearing room, we have spoken with a serious intention that this law, I would not now disclose the details that we have agreed, because we would enter into an excessive debate, which we would like to help all those categories covered by this law be properly respected. So, to provide enough money for them to be... Of course, we've been looking, and the Batut Institute has made a serious analysis of how many children are suffering from rare diseases, and we find ways to deal with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that even that category of children is maximumly protected. Of course, we're not satisfied with the speed, we're not satisfied with the means or many things, but I want to say that I see in this assembly at least a desire to change that. Many who had previously been in power have had every opportunity to change negatively when they were in power. I don't want that to happen to us and one day we're going to be in opposition, even if we don't welcome it, we say -- well, you know, we should, this isn't good in the health system right now, this needs to be changed, this isn't good, and we could have when we were in power. We should face the problems that exist. So we're facing problems. This is one of the problems. I was warned by colleagues that there are no more Serbian citizens who no longer know the difference between members 17 and 22, so I don't mention it anymore. I just think that this member of the law that's talking about this particular area, and a lot of the topics you've been talking about, we could open up in some other debates. Unfortunately, it's impossible to make them all aware of this law. I agree, you're right, we have a lot of problems we need to talk about. We're fully prepared to get into that with all the parliamentary groups. This is Serbia, all of us. We all represent the citizens of this country and we all fight together. I am convinced that in this building, regardless of all our differences, I do not want to believe that there is a single MP who does not think well of this country and his people. I am convinced, no matter how we look at things, what lines we say, we all have the best interest of our people in mind. Of course, if we are wrong in the way we represent these interests, it is already a political matter, but good intentions, I believe, exist. So I want to invite all my colleagues to work together to help, in this session, every subsequent challenge, whether we are the government or the opposition, we are working on making regulations that will enable us to truly maintain these legal solutions, help and become part of a huge number of problems that have plagued Serbia, not only for five years, ten years, but for many years, and that with the delay of system solutions and any solutions that have led to, or have been removed from, the cry of people, whatever minority group they belonged to, just because there are few, so we can regard them as a minority, are not those problems listened to, and those cries were not in the ears of those who could solve them. We can today. This assembly can solve some of the problems, not all of them can, but in a conversation with the Ministry of Health and with the Fund and other competent institutions we will try to solve these problems in the future. Thanks again to everyone for the debate. I'll try not to answer any more questions, but make sure that one lady has the last word, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27229	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27230	Thank you. You're very nice to me, Mr. Stefanovic. You're talking so nice and funny, but I'd just like to add a few things to correct you. I'm still part of the local government in Chatin Municipality and I'm still working there. I'm employed in two jobs, which the law, I hope, allows. It is the Tchaitina Municipality that can be an example of how the population is drained from one edge of the population, but not so much, because we have tried to stop it in certain ways, through different measures of population policy, as much as we can, and how much resources we have, by stimulating young couples to stay in the country, by opening these schools with our means, which the state closes, by opening up with our resources the rural infirmarys, which the state closes, by building infrastructure in these rural areas to keep these young people there and staying there. Believe me, in the last few years, they've been really staying, even coming back. We have opened three kindergartens in rural local communities that are highly visited, and now we are working on the adaptation of rooms, at the opening of the fourth kindergarten in the village, not in the city center. They're all over 30 kids, two to five years old, which is a really great thing. Not to mention stimulating measures for students, for students, for artificial insemination, etc. If we weren't going back to Chattino Community, that's not the point. We have to solve the causes. We must systematically deal with problems, above all with the improvement of the birth rate, so that the number of citizens of Serbia continues to decrease. We will certainly uphold this law. I don't think he's the only way to solve this problem. We should be doing it a lot more seriously. I'd like to repeat my question. In a debate a few months ago, does what you said about SNS mean that all those with birth problems, all women, should address someone from SNS, for example you?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27231	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 98. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to say a few things that I didn't say at the beginning, and try not to repeat myself and not say what some of my colleagues already said. I have to rely on this debate that we've now had the opportunity to hear. I said the MP group of the U.S. will vote for this bill and support it. I have waited all this time and attended the debate patiently to hear all the reasons given by the promoter, but also other colleagues to make a positive statement about this regulation. I also voted in favour of this bill on the Health Committee. I think I've also given a number of reasons in my argument that point seriously to the problems that our health care system has. I think this way of solving is faster, not to say it's more efficient, but it's definitely faster, but it's not going to provide system solutions, and that's what we expect from the president of the Assembly, but as much as we expect from the president of the Assembly, I expect it from the health minister when we talk about these issues, because at this point we have at least twenty topics on the Health Committee that we can't open up, we can't begin to talk about them, whether they refer to the situation of primary health care, to the status of dental health services, to the treatment of children. There's something else I need to say to the President of the Assembly, which is very interesting. You, Mr. Stefanovic, were fortunate to have been added to you by your fellow health books with a base of 1010. These people who have such a basis in their health book can consider themselves happy today, because I usually have books in my office with code 1814 or, worse still, 1410, which means that they are either farmers who cannot be treated or are unemployed. I've got one of those same cards on me. I found it interesting to watch you slowly enter matter around these health books. What exactly is this about? That's also another problem. It's a special category of residents that isn't covered by this regulation and that's something to think about. They are farmers, or family members, who are not children. It is mainly women who were introduced into the status of farmers in 1986 and 1997, although they have never engaged in agriculture and are obliged to pay for health contributions, and they have nothing to do with it. Women like that can't be treated, they can't be treated, they can't be certified until they pay an amount that often exceeds the annual amount of their income at household level. Paying 27,000 for health insurance, somewhere around 50,000 for retirement insurance is a serious problem, with families who are social assistance users at the same time. We have absurd situations in society. I asked the Republican Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund to come forward. They own records, but I didn't see any intention of changing things. I've seen good intentions with you, and that's the basic reason why the ZZS parliamentary group will support this law, but I'm also telling you that I expect systemic solutions. I think the time has come. It's been a year and a half since the SNS was in power, and that's what I asked you at the beginning of the debate, and you really haven't given me an argumentable answer to who's holding back the reforms in this society, why it's so hard to get in. Here, we're open. I don't have any problem with going to work tomorrow to reform the Health Insurance Act or health care. The members of the Health and Family Committee are also in the mood. Let's work on the system solutions. I think it's correct to say what the problem is, so we can't break out of a system like this and move on, but we need some partial, individual, special laws to solve certain problems that exist in society. I'm going to suggest one more thing. This applies to both you and the Director of the Republic Fund. There was a story here about electronic health cards and problems about it. I think it's a completely insignificant thing, a technical thing that someone raised to one political level for no reason whatsoever. Here's a proposal for you. Why don't these electronic health books get kids, just those kids that we're talking about today and those pregnant women, so that the state shows that she cares. Let the state show that she cares about rewarding someone. At least let that be a health card with the Republic Fund this time. And there's going to be a serious problem, and that's that we have to change the Health Insurance Act. We don't have a particular insurance base called the child. I don't see any obstacles to having him, so that every child born gets a health book that lasts him 18 years. It's a child, so if he's a year or 18, he's entitled to free treatment. It's the same situation with both pregnant women and maternity mothers. Let's try to look at our system completely different, get out of this vicious circle and start seriously solving things in society. If you look at problems that way and offer such solutions, you will have the support of the Parliament Club together for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27233	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. There's three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27234	Thank you. If there is still a few minutes left, as my opportunity to address this Parliament at the end of the debate, I will in any case express my satisfaction that a large number of MPs have expressed a positive relationship with the bill's proposal, with initiatives to address the current issues that exist in society, especially in the field of health, are being dealt with spotically, even if we did this, not one slower way, but, in any case, valid. When it comes to the laws in the field of health, I simply have to express my position that the roof laws and those system laws previously spoken of by the MP have given certain solutions and give the conditions to generally provide health care. We did not talk in this House about exactly what the health system is all about in this country. We have discussed that for the last 10 years he has been destroyed almost systematically and that all the problems that appear today are actually culminating as a result of a long-standing practice. I am certainly for things to change and to improve and I think that in this sense a much greater contribution in the future can be made to the Health Committee, where we, the previous speaker and I, who are members of that committee, can certainly make a greater contribution, with the effect that there are topics that are systemically important to us, and not to get away with, as in some situations was practice, individual cases that are being targeted by the health system. Individual cases, individual problems with the health of individual citizens, should not be a topic for us, but have been present on the Health Committee, you will agree. I will certainly support this proposal, and I hope that together we will contribute to the improvement of the Health Committee in the coming period, and that we will also contribute to all laws concerning the resolution of health opportunities for the population, the provision of health care, to catch an absolute step with modern opportunities, the current opportunities of the state, with the goals we set for ourselves, but not to the harm of the citizens and to the harm of the inhabitants. I want to believe in that country and that it's so targeted we're all building to provide adequate health care to everyone who needs it in every place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-14-0.u27235	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a principled search of the bill and we're finishing our work. We start tomorrow at 11:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Cedomir Protic, Milica Petronijevic, Dejan Radenkovic, Zlata Djeric, Nevena Adzmovic and Gordana Komic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am next to the representative of promoter Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance and Mr. Velimira Ilic, the minister of construction and urbanism, called for the session to be attended by Nikola Vusurovic, State Secretary at the finance ministry, Milorad Jocic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism and Dejan Dabetic, senior adviser at the finance ministry. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to a joint single review of the draft law referred to in point 21. The 23rd agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint, uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 22 and 23 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups in mutual agreement, shall determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak each of them for one to five minutes. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the project of the construction of the highway E763 of Obrenovac-Ljig, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Business as the Borrower and Chinese Esport-Import Bank, as the Borrower and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to Income Taxes. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
