ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30636	I don't think you've established the quorum correctly. Since we're seeing the report here, it says there were 125 in the O.R. I now infiltrated the 126th to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there were 125 MPs. Please re-establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30637	There was a signal, and no doubt, please insert your electronic cards. We have a quorum. So 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. most of the total number of MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Millyvoy, let's finish this opening, and I'll give you my word. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the next National MP: Wolf Jeremic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I, in addition to the representative of the promoter Lazar Krstic, invited the finance minister to attend the sittings of Nikša Vusurovic, the secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Zlatko Milic, assistant minister of finance. In accordance with Article 195(2) and Article 77(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, therefore, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30638	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 88's Rules of Procedure regarding working hours and starting work. As you know, at the last session in this session, one of the last ones, I expected to start working on time. Unfortunately, this congregation council will be remembered for not being able to begin on time for more than half an hour. I think it's really inappropriate. I expected that at our divorce today, when we have one of the last sessions in this session, even if we start on time and show that here at the end of the term we are correcting some mistakes from the previous period, but there were expectations and expectations of the citizens are betrayed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30639	I agree that we need to start on time, as determined by the Rules of Procedure. However, I can only answer what has been said several times in the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of this type, that MPs who are in the Rules of Procedure are obliged to identify and insert cards. However, much of the MPs did not do so and that is one of the reasons why we were late to work. We're going to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. The first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 1, 2, 10, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29 and 31 October 2013, and the 8th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 2 December 2013. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I am voting on the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 1, 2, 10, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29 and 31 October 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 119, no one, with abstentions, voted 33, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 1, 2, 10, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29 and 31 October 2013. I am voting on the 8th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 2 December 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 19, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 8th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 2 December 2013. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on the exercise of the right to health care of persons whose health care is needed in relation to prevention, repression, early detection and treatment of diseases of greater socio-medical importance, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the draft law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not 136 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed putting on the agenda the draft decision on the election of judges elected for the first time as judge, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 34 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 37 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. The government proposed that the draft law on general and administrative procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever, ever voted – 162 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Minority Councils, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – 158 of all 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22(1) and Article 29(5) of the Rules of Procedure be put on the agenda. The Law on Public Enterprises (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No 119/12, which submitted to the National Assembly on 19 December 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – two, abstentions – there is no, they did not vote – 33 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 195. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint review be carried out on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act and a proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22(1) and Article 29(5). Law on public undertakings, points 1 and 2 of the proposed agenda. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 38 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 38 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for authentic interpretation shall be laid down in Article 22(1) and Article 29(5). Law on public undertakings, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law of the National Assembly; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Commission for the control of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and the local self-government of the National Assembly. We're going to work on a set agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for actions in the agenda under points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, shall be five hours for the parliamentary groups, and that this time shall be allocated to the parliamentary groups by a proportion of Members of the Parliament, which shall be attached to you. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of the MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 195. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint general and uniform review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act and the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22(1) and Article 29(5). The Law on Public Enterprises (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No 119/12. Do the proposing representatives, Lazar Krstic, finance minister and MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, want a word? The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30640	Thank you. I won't be too long. I think the point here is clear. In the law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, we have three members. The first concerns the liberalisation of the resecuritisation market, the risks of security of property from natural disasters, which is something that is in line with everything previously negotiated in connection with the World Trade Organisation's accession, which is consistent with the loans we've committed to and taken from the World Bank in early 2012, only legislation might have been a little late for that, and this we provide something that in most other countries otherwise exists, and which would have been a legal obligation, is in line with some of the procedures we've already taken, such as taking loans from the World Bank for the establishment of a joint venture with countries in the region, Europe RE. The second member refers to the shift of the deadline. As you know, the new insurance law is being prepared, the NBS is preparing the law. It should be in front of parliament in the first half of 2014. It was meant to be this year. However, due to extended consultation with market factors, particularly with insurance companies operating with us and extended public debates, the draft is still under way, it can be said in the public debate phase, and therefore we are moving this deadline from 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2014, to avoid a legal vacuum. Article 3 shall enter into force eight days from the date of publication, which shall be a standard procedure. When we filed it on December 18th, it seemed possible. However, due to the dynamics of the session's appointment, this will be changed by amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has already tabled an amendment to this and will be amended or we will, in the end, do so in order to enter into force before 31 December, or before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30641	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Mikovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30642	I'm reporting for a little intervention because something that's not true has been said. There have been speeches on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and we have indicated on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives that an absolute period of eight days is inappropriate, because only if the law was published today would this law make sense. Otherwise, the deadline for entry into force should be shortened, as if the law were published on 24 or 25 January, everyone would be late. This is what we have pointed out to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. I have personally submitted an amendment to the legislation to come into force the following day, but the Committee itself, since it is not the parent committee in this area, cannot submit an amendment, except to assess and point to some ambiguity. In this regard, as Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs and authorised under this item of the agenda, I point to this ambiguity, or something that should be corrected in the next period. I expect it to be accepted at the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30643	Thank you. Does MP Biljana Pantic Pilja want a word? No, I don't. I'm just here to inform the People's MPs. It is foreseen, and in the meantime it will be confirmed that we have a 1600-hour government question Thursday. The vote in that case would be on this agenda at 1900 hours. In that sense, I ask you to keep that in mind, to organize ourselves and act like one. We're continuing our work on the agenda. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30644	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today as the first point of this united debate, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, with a proposal to adopt it by an urgent procedure. As the finance minister himself has said, this proposal proposes three members. The first member provides for the liberalisation of the insurance market. This is, in fact, the only essential addition, since a new Article 6 is added to the already existing Article 15 of the Insurance Act. When we talk about the explanation of such a bill on amendments and additions, then we see that in the reasons for the adoption of this law, what it is is a fact, which is that the Republic of Serbia is an undisputed participant of the Regional Insurance Project from natural disasters to Southeast Europe and the Caucasus, as well as the Programme for the Insurance of The catastrophic Risks and Risks of Essential Accidents. It is also stated in the reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to this insurance law that it is prescribed that one insurance company cannot simultaneously carry out life insurance and non-life insurance activities, and that therefore the required obligation to separate jobs, both life insurance and non-life insurance services for insurance companies established before the entry into force of this law. The following fact is also stated in the reasons for the adoption of this law, which is that there is a further improvement of international insurance regulation, with an emphasis on strengthening the capital base of the insurance company, in fact on strengthening risk management and strengthening the role of supervisory. What is particularly interesting is that the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance participate in the creation of a new insurance law, and the new insurance law is in the final phase of the production and, as Minister Krstic said, the draft new law is in the public debate phase. I have to tell you that I don't know if there have been any mistakes here or if the "kopi-paist" method has been applied, since the reasons for the law and the analysis of the effects of the law are identical. You've got three paragraphs that repeat the same thing to you. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of the law and the analysis of the effects of the law have been copied. But let's take some turns. Namely, the first Insurance Act in the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 2004. It is to a good extent, but I must also note, and to an insufficient extent, in line with EU directives. The changes that are now being proposed seem to be minimal. If you want, they are also minor because a number of provisions of the Insurance Act have to be changed, and not by coming into this assembly procedure, and because the assembly procedure will be accompanied by a draft law on amendments and additions, and these amendments and additions will be completely partial character, but rather by doing exactly what should have been done, which is precisely to discuss a completely new insurance bill. If I am not mistaken, it was referred to by the National Bank of Serbia last year and already in March 2012 by the new insurance law was to be found in the assembly procedure. In the same period, in March 2012, the National Bank of Serbia claimed that in fact the draft new insurance law was already in the public debate phase. It's December 2013, and there's still no new law. So, everything contrary to what the National Bank of Serbia said. Of course, only in this way, by adopting a brand-new security law in our country would ensure full harmonisation with EU legislation. But here I have to go in some order. In fact, as I have already mentioned, I don't know why it wasn't going in the direction of both more qualitative and quantitative changes and additions, if that was the goal, and I don't think it should ever go towards partial changes and additions, but whenever it's necessary to pass a new law. The more changes and additions to one bill you have, the more it says enough about the law itself, and the more subject to changes and additions, the more legal instability and uncertainty are growing and more certain. The fact is, as I have already mentioned, that many questions of this law must be changed. First of all, when we talk about issues that the new security law must be completely different from the way they are governed by the current law, and I say that these amendments and additions are totally minor and I think they should not have been found for now in the congregation procedure, are the following questions. The issue of supervision of the group of insurance companies, the issue of related persons, the obligation to inform insurance companies, the coverage of technical reserves, the placement of technical reserves, etc. The EU Member States started implementing the Solvency Directive at the end of 2012. It is precisely this directive, which was adopted in 2012 in its national legislation by a number of newspapers. First of all, the implementation of these numerous newspapers has been mirrored with regard to the management of new principles just to determine the insolvency of insurance and risk management companies. It is precisely those principles that are fulfilled by the said Directive that improves the stability of the insurance market, precisely by providing the necessary capital of the insurance company, and of course all depending on the exposure, as well as the dependence on risk management. In fact, this Solvency Directive represents a kind of programme aimed at reducing insurance risks, also the risk of resecuritisation, to establish the greatest, the more complete competitiveness, to improve the rights of the insurance company itself, to collect damages through intermediaries, etc. To these facts and in this place, I must remind you, he pointed out something like that, when we're talking about the new Insurance Act being already in place, and we've been late for the adoption of this new Insurance Act for almost two years now. So, this was pointed out by Mr. Janman, who will head of the EU's Economic Affairs Mission Sector in March 2012, and after a meeting on the development of the security market in Southeast Europe. That same year, 2012, as I said, the National Bank of Serbia was supposed to refer to the National Assembly, to find a new Insurance Act in the assembly procedure that would be fully in line with EU rules, and as the NBS then claimed it would be one law that would be fully in the spirit of a European insurance law. Now, if you'll excuse me, we don't have such a law. We've got shifts, we've got three members, I've already said, it's just a fundamental one change. If you want it, it's not really a change, it's a supplement. In fact, I don't think anything can be achieved, at least not in this way, when such a bill is found in the assembly procedure, because European standards that are in harmonisation of regulations, and for us are binding, it seems to me that this is exactly the behavior and this is the kind of proposal for changes and additions, and we deny it. In order to join the EU, and of course we should approach it, we are all looking forward to this date of the start of negotiations, an additional effort must be made. One more effort must be made, so that good legal norms are done, and I hope that this will be done as Mr Krstic hinted at this next new Insurance Act, which will be found in the first half of the Assembly procedure in 2014, to settle first and next issues. This is the work of the EU insurance companies' branches, then the freedom to provide insurance services, as well as insurance services from the EU, then European work permits, the applicable labour rights, the transfer of portfolios to EU Member States, the reorganisation and liquidation of insurance companies, then the issue of intermediation and the like. So, on all these issues, and all the issues I consider to be of paramount importance, I think we should have thought about it already, and I think these issues should already be regulated, in fact, by the new Insurance Act, with which the adoption is delayed. As far as life insurance matters are concerned, we are significantly lagging behind in comparison with EU member states, but this is nothing new. Such a thing should not surprise us, since the development of the same is precisely due to living standards, if you will, cultural determinations, if you really want a rate, or an existing gross social product, the stability of the insurance sector, and certainly all of this is in our possession, and we are all witnessing it at a very low level or if you want a fully invisible level. The adoption of this new Insurance Act, I hope that it will be in the assembly procedure in the first half of 2014, is necessary, because if we start negotiations, and look forward to when we start them, we need to be aware and the fact that we have to see for ourselves, and we need to change all the things that are being regulated by this law, and they refer to the matter which is exactly the law on insurance that needs to be regulated, and which so far is rather not regulated or regulated in accordance with European standards, and not that we are waiting for someone else to point out to us through formal conditions, and that those informal conditions that we ourselves need to be aware that they are not said, but we need to recognize them and do them ourselves. These are issues whose legal arrangement is precisely this new Insurance Act awaits you, and these changes and additions unfortunately only happen one, I would say, part of the problem. This central place is precisely at the already mentioned regional conference held in 2012, where there was talk of improving the insurance market, is just dedicated to the issue of life insurance incentives and is potentiated on the subject since it only takes 17% of our insurance payments. In European countries, the fact is that the stake is four times larger. Of course, changes and additions do not deal with this issue either, and we look forward to how these issues will be regulated by the new proposed Insurance Act. Finally, the mentioned regional conference shows actually the best solutions in the practice of European countries. I don't know why such solutions aren't followed, because today, at this very moment and today, we would actually be discussing much more extensive and much more important things instead of wasting our time, but I said, in just one addition that is seen only in the addition of a new attitude to Article 15 in the already existing article and against whose addition to the truth I don't mind, because this one attitude and this one member in a more comprehensive way is regulated in the national laws of the countries in the environment. Not only has he been arranged, not only has he been legally involved, he's been applied for years, so in adding this new member I really don't see anything epochal. Is his pass necessary? Yes, it is. Could it have been done any other way? Yes, it is, yes, by adopting a new Insurance Act that was already to be passed in March 2012 when the NBS said on all sides that it was already in the public debate phase and that we just needed a little patience and that the new law would be passed in 2012. It's going to be 2014, and hopefully, as you said it would be in the first half of the year. After all, all these criticisms that I've made, of course, I've pointed out because they may not actually be critics, but in some ways they can be considered as such, I've pointed out the essential problems that the new Insurance Act should yet be solved. I think because I quote those things and I think we have a constant need to change one law through partial changes and additions instead of going to the expense of legal certainty to pass a comprehensive law. When you look at the proposal to amend and supplement and when you see this open bracket when the first law has been passed and all the amendments have been, so what the additions have been, so how many times it has changed, it all says that the more a law is subject to amendments and additions, the more it says about the need for its abolition and adoption of a new law. Just because I put out these criticisms, I think it's better if you accept the criticism, because what's only worse than criticism is commendation. As regards the second proposed item of this agenda today, this is a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22(1) and Article 29(5). The Law on Public Enterprises, which is also proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure, is indeed not clear to me for which reasons authentic interpretation is proposed since these two members and attitudes and all points are absolutely clear to me in this stated Law on Public Enterprises. In fact, something like this was going on because the authentic interpretation of these very provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises wanted to actually bring into practice one harmonisation of the applicable Law on Public Enterprises, the arrangement to bring this law into line with the Regulation on criteria for the appointment of directors of public enterprises, as well as the conditions of the Competition Commission. The problems in practice so far have always been caused by competition commissions that have defined somewhat different conditions in relation to the Law on Public Enterprises and the regulation already mentioned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the criteria for the appointment of directors of public enterprises and the conditions adapted to the candidate. The statutes of many public enterprises are not in line with the Law on Public Enterprises as well as with the already mentioned government regulation. So if that was the goal in which we're discussing exactly the authentic interpretation of these provisions today, then I can have the understanding of that sort of thing. I note, that the provisions are particularly taken in this manner where the position is taken, and it is said that the burden of proof of compliance falls on the applicant's burden of applying for a public competition for the appointment of a director, which means that the candidate is obliged to deliver evidence of compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 22. Law on public enterprises and other evidence required by advertising in public competition. I think that every MP, and above all the MPs of the legal profession, is more than clear, so I don't think there was any need to discuss authentic interpretations at all today. I said if it was already done in order to comply with the applicable rules, then I have an understanding of the current law of the Government's regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30645	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Marko Milutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30646	Thank you. Dear Mr Arsenovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have a personal doubt whether to discuss insurance and normative matters in the Republic of Serbia on the basis of insurance or to deal with what is the essence of the proposed changes and additions, due to the lack of time and hope that a new law on insurance will soon come into this assembly procedure. I chose to do what was proposed in my own right today. Only this supplement described in Article 1. The bill of amendments and addition of the Law, which provides for the addition of another position in Article 15 on resecuritisation matters, is in itself not disputed, with it being related to this story of life insurance and non-life insurance and resecuritisation opportunities, probably in itself could have waited. However, what is certainly a problem, it is related to this delay in the deadline, when insurance houses will act according to this law. Now we're coming up with one thing I can't help but mention, which is what turned out to be the government that essentially deals with the most and only dates. Both the starting dates of the negotiations with the EU and the dates when certain obligations will be applied, when some legislation will enter into force. With this in mind, I simply cannot imagine that the proposer would make this slip to which MP Srdjan Mikovic rightly pointed out, which is that if the proposed amendments and additions were adopted in this way, there would be one interregnum, i.e. the inability to apply this law from what was the aim of the legislator himself or the legislator himself. With this in mind, I appeal to all those present – do not make MPs suggest amendments to which they will remove this situation. Because what would happen? We would first vote this law on Thursday, as planned. It's December 26th. It would simply not be possible to implement its application and have between a few days that would make it impossible for the very essence and purpose of the law to be implemented. The logical question arises – why are we moving this deadline in a year? It explains that the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, although the minister, in his opening presentation, will primarily list the National Bank, which I believe will prepare and propose to enter the procedure for a new insurance law. But what happened? Since January 2012, Serbia has become a shareholder under the Shareholders' Agreement and has previously taken a loan from the World Bank of Five Million Dollars, which established the insurance house for the resuscitation of "Europe RE" and then paid off its participation as a shareholder in "Europe RE". I would remind you that only Serbia, Albania and Macedonia have now joined the region, and that Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to it, are considering whether or not they will join. In this regard, a logical question arises – is it not from that moment, not at all, whose fault it is, and it is in any case the executive authorities, not entering into whose personal guilt it is, is this country therefore suffering certain damage and what is the damage that directly or indirectly the Republic of Serbia suffers because of this new delay? It is interesting to say about this and why the National Bank has not prepared and made a competent proposal for a new insurance law. We all know what's been going on at the National Bank for the last year and a half. These are huge amounts of people who have come and started working at the National Bank of Serbia, in different sectors -- for normative, for representation, a huge number of lawyers, never more, who came to the National Bank of Serbia. The question is, what do all these people want, not wanting anyone who's been working for a very long time at the National Bank because I know how it works at the National Bank, so what are all these people who are employed, and it's hundreds of people who have come to the National Bank, doing so all these bill proposals are running late? In this way, if we get into the essence of things, there is a certain liberalisation in the resecuritisation field, which we cannot say is bad for the insurance companies themselves who thus have an additional option or resecuring their policies, which in itself is good, but the fact is that in this way the resecuritists will endanger domestic resecuritizers. I agree that as individuals, as individuals, as legal persons who want to be insured, we should not be so concerned and think about what the fate of the insurance houses is, but that our particular claims arising from these relationships should be maximumly protected. However, you yourself, in your own explanation, state all the negative effects of these changes. With this in mind, it should be taken into account when adopting a new insurance law, all of these negative effects, especially those that can have a bad impact on the existing four resecuritisation companies. It's interesting, and the question needs to be asked why is all of this an emergency procedure? What are those reasons? We know when the reasons for the emergency procedure are foreseen. This is what we can all say is that it's just a problem that someone didn't do their job in time. I do not refer to ministers at all to you, but to competent state institutions, but you are a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore allow such criticism to be directed to you. It is very clear what the reasons for the urgency are when certain laws are found here in front of the MPs. The only reason we're adopting this today in an emergency procedure and thank God so Mr. Mikovic's amendment has been submitted, so I wouldn't adopt something that in itself wouldn't be very sustainable, is because the people who work in this country's administration have been negligent. As for the second point provided for in this debate, and it is related to authentic interpretation, I would really point out at the outset that the National Assembly is extremely and strictly and rarely resorting to authentic interpretations. That's the way it's supposed to be. However, we have already had two authentic interpretations in the last month. We see that there is a tendency of these authentic interpretations in the coming period to be even more, which can speak of at least two things, or that our laws and legislation are so bad, that it is necessary to often act on that field and to determine what the legislator wanted to say or another thing that might be more realistic in some cases, which is that authentic interpretation wants to resort to one perfidan and sophisticated way, to amend the law itself, by making certain provisions different interpretations. As I recall in 2007, this Assembly brought authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education. She did it and the question is how much authentic interpretation, then it really made sense to what the provisions of the law itself were, in principle, clear. Then we tried to solve the problem that has arisen because our universities have not reached that level and capacity to provide their students with all the necessary knowledge and have not adapted their study programmes to these new circumstances. We then resorted to an interpretation that still applies today and is being applied, and in the meantime, none of the authorities did anything to change the education system in this country. We, too, have almost deleted certain provisions in the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which take into account the average assessment of the reception of judicial trainees, assistants. Why? It will be arranged by a special act of the minister and I know what the essence of that change was then. The point was that the minister wanted to use his act to exempt students who had completed certain private schools. I can agree that it's likely that even today's state college day, here's the legal profession, because I'm a lawyer, they give better, they can produce lawyers than private colleges can, but then the question is, what's the whole accreditation we've done? In that case, we will go into discrimination against all those who have graduated from private colleges and who are likely to be discriminated against in the perspective of some acts for ending this. We can't act that way, it's, I can say, freely - unserious. I agree with a colleague who spoke before me, I really don't see why it was necessary to bring this interpretation and what's in itself controversial, in this way we would plead here. If anyone who is a candidate is to provide confirmation that he is commercially capable, i.e. there are no reasons for the possible deprivation of his business ability, or that he is a minor, then we are indeed a little burned on the low branches and that the burden of proof is on the applicant's application. Of course, but there are certain assumptions, if anyone questions that assumption, he needs to prove that things are different. It's not good that, as the National Assembly, we resort to this many frequent interpretations of certain legal provisions, I told you, then this shows the poor work of this home. They repeat for at least two reasons, or we have poor legal solutions, which means that we should propose amendments and amendments to the law or even better, the adoption of brand-new legislation, or what is more likely, and very often we and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislatory do, which is that some barrier should be overcome by authentic interpretations themselves. Of course, if we are already talking about, and the topic is authentic interpretation of certain provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, then let's also talk about public enterprises in what state they are in. Is it important to us that the directors of public enterprises should be elected, so that they can be resolved, so that people who do not meet any legal requirements come here, and what I have to say is a trend, or is the essence of what today, for example, workers will protest from these public enterprises because they have not received eight earnings? Minister, there will be a protest in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia today. Not getting into it, I agree that our public enterprises are doing catastrophic business because of poor management, because hundreds and thousands of people are employed in these public enterprises and that the system itself is unsustainable, but we have been in the debate about this budget of huge funds, we have allocated huge resources to these public enterprises. Today we deal with who can and can't be the director in an indirect way. It's not serious. There are no system reforms in this country. We're dealing with delays, we're doing authentic interpretations, we're adapting to all other things that don't have much to do with the essence. These are reasons why the DSS parliamentary group cannot support, that the amendment and addition of the Insurance Act and if the reasons for such a decision are not direct in nature, as far as we realize it is necessary to change this at this time, but as a sign of warning to all relevant institutions in this country that it is time to start doing their job. The reasons why we're not going to support an authentic interpretation that we think is in itself too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30647	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. We are moving on to a debate according to the list of registered MPs. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30648	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since I myself have worked for ten years in an insurance company, and I am a member of the working groups for the construction of the Insurance Act, the insurance area in Serbia from year to year, with many objections that exist, I am sure she is experiencing her rise and development because of the simple fact that in the 1990s when she was so-called. The ‘liberalisation’ of the insurance market, it went to another opposite when insurance companies could be set up with a founding capital of only $10,000 or $12,000. It was a huge state fraud and many insurance companies that failed to meet the purpose and purpose of their existence and did not damage several tens of thousands of citizens, but unfortunately the bankruptcy process has not been completed. For many insurance companies, we had promises that by the end of this year, the bankruptcy process would be completed. It ends in 2013, we are now being announced that this job will be completed in 2014, and many damaged persons, if we are talking about physical damage and with the most severe damages of 10, 15, 16, 17 years waiting for damages from the Guarantee Fund, and the Guarantee Fund Act has been passed in the past term of the Government and we, as a parliamentary group, supported the law. The resecuritisation system was also not sufficiently developed for us, it seems to me that only the insurance companies only had "Dunav RE" once had an insurance company and what had been envisaged by the new Insurance Act is also in terms of developing insurance, market development, but what previous colleagues said, that is, my observation that we as a society are not due to a number of reforms that have been left behind in all other areas of social life fully prepared by our insurance companies for the liberalisation of the insurance market. What is also important to point out, that we are largely dissatisfied with reforms in our country, but reforms within the banking sector and in insurance organisations may be one of the better reforms implemented in our country. As for the authentic interpretation of the Law on Public Enterprises, Ms. Olgica Batic said everything in that sense, I would not add anything new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30649	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30650	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this would not be the first time, amendments and additions to the Insurance Act simply serve as some kind of alibi for the inability to propose some other laws that might be more important and that would be more significant in terms of improving the quality of life in Serbia, especially living in such a difficult economic crisis. It would not be the first time that the government overestimated its abilities in the sense of starting to apply certain legal solutions. Just remember the Code of Criminal Procedure and how many times the application of that member of the Law relating to the prosecution investigation was delayed. Remember the Law on Public Records, they just keep pro-longing these dates of starting to apply some new policy on the implementation of those commitments that the government has made to itself. So it's not just about this draft law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, it's a general problem with Serbia's legislation. It's just that there's obviously some kind of confusion about what we're going to do and how when we finally get to a point that's a turning point about the future of this country. The state has defined itself, the government has defined itself as actually going this way towards European integration, and there is so much unspeakable left, so much uncleared in the policy itself that was on the agenda when elections were held, when the policy became quite something else in the walk. Obviously there are some misunderstandings and discrepancies about the draft law, about law enforcement. Therefore, we should not be surprised that we have so many legal gaps, that we have so much need for the application of the law to be interpreted, among other things, and by bringing authentic interpretations into the congregation. Therefore, in this authentic interpretation of certain provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, a number of things are essential. First of all, this applies to two members who, by nature, are not so problematic. There are, therefore, even no such indetermination, that is, some gaps that call for this kind of government reaction, or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. It was simply not necessary to react in this way to some ambiguities. These are some things that are self-conceived. It is normal for one who competes for such a serious place to manage one public firm and wants to become a director, to be a minor and to be able to do business, in addition to all of these conditions provided for in Article 29(5). So that's not the problem. The problem is that there are other things you haven't looked back on, and obviously there are problems in implementing the Law on Public Enterprises, which is obviously everyday. We see that there is a problem with law enforcement, respecting the provisions of the law, really deciding to be the real management of public enterprises, which will not only produce damage and will not serve certain party interests. What else to say when not respecting that member of the Public Enterprises Act 66, paragraph 4, which again binds the Government to some deadline in terms of the election of the Director of Public Enterprises. Let's just look at how the article is interpreted and how much some idea, which apparently existed at the time of the law, and that idea was also supported by the LDP when it proposed to bind to 30 June 2012, the selection of these directors, i.e. in 2013, I apologize. But that's not happening. If so, it has occurred only in some public enterprises that have no such meaning, such as "Serbiagas" or "Electroprivred" and so on. So we still have this situation to hire party personnel, we still have this situation that nothing more important changes in public enterprises. When you have one legal void, when you have a problem with creatively interpreting certain provisions of a law, in that sense you have interpretations that can lead to serious situations in terms of corruptive action, because if you can, in one way or another, decide, you are simply tempted to apply the law to your own interest, in the interest of your party, especially when it comes to management, or when it comes to public enterprises that are recorded as the biggest problem of today's economic policy in Serbia. Therefore, corruption is not only a media-accompanied and media-processed topic in terms of the arrest of some tycoons, so the fight against corruption cannot only be fought in such a way as to lead, but, among other things, by removing all misunderstandings, each space in a different interpretation of certain provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, which are sensitive in terms of the implementation of a valid, healthy economic policy in terms of empowerment and recovery of public enterprises. A little has been done, despite the fact that there are certain good solutions in the Law on Public Enterprises, but these good solutions have somehow been interpreted in a very wrong way and these provisions have been implemented in the wrong way. For this reason, it is clear to us that you have had the need to initiate this question of authentic interpretation of certain provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, but we do not understand and we cannot have an understanding of that fact that you are not some other problematic provision, which leaves one free interpretation to those who enforce the law, put on the agenda, in terms of authentic interpretation? The law must be clear. The law must have such standards as can be applied in practice and must not permit such a kind of legal void, which we have today, among other things, and in the implementation of this Law on Public Enterprises. It's all open and it's all on the agenda and when we talk about both the 1st and the 2nd agenda, but it took you to maybe work a little bit harder on the legislation itself, about the legislative policy that can't be in this way ad hoc, and it can't just fill up the empty walk and the executive authorities and the legislative authorities, because that empty walk was created because you missed something to do, which you weren't sure how to do, that you brought some half-way solutions, which you might want to go one step forward, but it was really hard for you to take that one step, so you changed your walk, so you stopped somewhere. These empty walks have shown how devastating they are in general for political life in Serbia, not just for political life, but for the functioning of the rule of law, for the functioning and survival of this economy and for this economy that has led to the extreme limits of its survival. If you have a serious intention to change your approach to all the burning problems in Serbia, in that case, it is not enough for you to propose these kinds of changes and additions to one insurance law or to propose an authentic interpretation of the fully benign provisions of this Law on Public Enterprises, but rather something far more is needed, and this economic policy, that this policy in terms of Serbia's modernisation, be far more comprehensive, far more serious, and not leave everything lightly accepted by the government, i.e. government and past governments, who simply did not understand the burden of reality. The reality is that you have to work, that you have to work professionally, that you have to work honestly and that you have to have a clear plan. From what we're being suggested here today, to discuss, at this plenary session, we don't see that this plan is so clear and so explicit. Get a little serious. Indeed, it is the surface that dominates Serbia's political life, especially when it comes to the adoption of essential laws for the modernisation of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30651	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30652	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I will focus on the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act for the following reasons. The Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act complements Article 15. The law on insurance in such a way as to allow insurance companies to manage the entire assets in the event of natural disasters, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, the city, droughts, as well as to reduce financial gains arising from adverse elemental conditions, can be resecured abroad. Article 2 shall be deleted from Article 234. The Insurance Act, which provided for the deadline for the separation of the insurance company which deals with life insurance and non-life insurance on 31 December 2013, extends by one year, i.e. until 31 December 2014. What did the law on amending and supplementing the Insurance Act come from? First of all, it came from the fact that international agreements and international agreements previously signed must be respected, and it refers to the fact that the Republic of Serbia has since 2009 been one of the participants of the regional insurance project from catastrophic and elemental disasters, a participant of the project initiated by the World Bank. Together with the Republic of Serbia, participants in this project have been from Southeast European and Albanian and Macedonian countries, and the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of BiH have also shown positive interest in the project. The main objective of this project is, of course, the development of local insurance markets in the case of natural disasters and catastrophic risks, i.e. the provision of property in these cases. In line with the project initiated by the World Bank, the World Bank has given the Republic of Serbia five million dollars in loans as part of the participation of the Republic of Serbia to become a shareholder. The action agreement was signed in January 2012. Of course, by signing the agreement, the Republic of Serbia also accepted the obligation to create a regulatory, i.e. legal framework for the business of the insurance house established in Switzerland in the area of the Republic of Serbia. So, this takeover agreement, and by signing the agreement, results in this need for amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, and in line with the approximation of EU standards. What will this amendment and the addition of the law bring? It will certainly contribute to increasing the number of people, increasing the number of farmers, increasing the number of businesses that will thus re-assurance their assets. What good is that to the state? In relation to the state, this means disbursement of the budget, as economic operators and the population will be able to collect damages from insurance companies in the event of natural disasters. Also, the project envisions that the insurance company "Europe RE" appears on Serbia's market already in 2014. As regards erasing Article 234, i.e. extending the time limit for the separation of insurance companies operating both life insurance and non-life insurance, it is certainly necessary to have one system law that will systematically regulate the area of life insurance and non-life insurance, and as this is highlighted in the light of this law, the Ministry of Finance together with the NBS and how it works on the adoption of one system law, which will include all those entities that can contribute to the improvement of the quality of this law. As far as SNS is concerned, there is no doubt that in the voting day we will support the law relating to amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30653	Five minutes and 37 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's Messenger Marko Milutinovic is not there, so the People's Messenger Zeljko Susec has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30654	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act aims to improve the existing Insurance Act, thus achieving respect for the EU regulatory, regulatory countries in the environment and to increase and develop the level of the insurance market in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act provides for the possibility that the overall risk of insurance of assets from natural disasters, as well as insurance of financial losses due to bad weather is directly provided abroad. The Republic of Serbia is a participant in a natural disaster regional security project for Southeast Europe and the Caucasus, with a resecuritisation programme of elemental disasters and other risks initiated by the World Bank. In order to realise the project, the Swiss insurance organisation "Europe RE" was established in November 2009, where the World Bank granted a five-million-dollar loan to the Republic of Serbia to pay the participation of the Republic of Serbia as a shareholder in "Europe RE". In January 2012, according to the signing of the agreement, the Republic of Serbia became a full-fledged shareholder of "Europe RE", which gives the possibility of direct insurance with a foreign resecuritizer. In addition to the Insurance Act, separation of life insurance and non-life insurance is prescribed. The deadline for the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance transactions is replaced by the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act from the existing 31st December 2013 on 31st December 2014, where the organisation, i.e. the society, undertakes that the NBS submits evidence of the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance. The draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act is a complement to the existing law for the sake of compliance with EU regulations and compliance with the requirements of the World Bank, as well as to prepare for the creation of a new Insurance Act, which is prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the NBS. We've been expecting him half next year. Based on the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to the Insurance Act in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30655	It was used two minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30656	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, a proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22(1) and Article 29(5). Public enterprise law. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, I will not look back much on Article 1, as this is practically a resecuritisation. I think anyone who's seriously read the bill is clear. What don't we get? Whether or not the provision of Article 234. The insurance law is supposed to go from year to year, and still? In that sense, my colleague and I of the DS parliamentary group have made three amendments. Today, we received assurance from Mr. Minister that the NBS as an authorised legislator in this area will finish the job and that we will have the opportunity to pass a new insurance law in the National Assembly by half next year. If that is true, I have no reason to doubt that Mr. Minister has honestly said it, then there is also no reason not to accept the amendment of MP Srdjan Mikovic, who suggested that the six-month period extended, not a year or an amendment by Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, who proposed to extend the deadline to eight months or the amendment of the National MP Natasha Vukkovic, who proposed that the extension be nine months. Mr. Minister, you assure us that in six months, the job will be done and I don't see why you won't accept the amendment and say, okay, the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance will be in those six months, we adopt the amendment? If I have been overly optimistic about it or if I have trusted Mr. Minister too much, let us extend the deadline for two or three months or accept Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic or Mrs. Natasha Vuckovic. Finally, the fact is that we make laws when it's teat. We knew last year when we were running out of this December 31st, and then better on December 18th, the day before St. Nicholas was given the bill and it is expected to be voted immediately. The regular procedure, for those who do not know our Rules of Procedure, is that for 15 days the draft law should stand in the assembly procedure, that every MP and members of both the parent board and other committees who declare themselves on the draft law have plenty of time to declare themselves. It is therefore 15 days to read and not to be as in the draft law to provide for the entry into force of eight days after the publication of the “Official Messenger. ” It's December 23rd. Eight days from today when is it? This is December 31st, 2013, and December 31st, 2013 is the deadline for insurance organisations to separate life insurance and non-life insurance. It stems from the assumption that there will probably be no amendment, that today it will be possible to pass the law, that today the President of the Republic will sign the declaration order and that the law will be published today. Only then makes sense is the provision that the law will enter into force eight days from the day of its publication. Otherwise, if we discuss the amendments on December 25th, which I expect will not be because the 25th big holiday is Christmas for a large number of Serbian citizens and a number of MPs, I expect to discuss the amendments Thursday. If that happens, the announcement cannot be made before Thursday or Friday, especially if the vote is at 1900 hours, as Vice President Konstantin Arsenovic announced. What does that mean? If we don't adopt the amendment, we're free of the bill at all. We did it for nothing, because on January 1st, everyone who didn't do their job gets in late. You're discussing this indiscriminately. If you'd asked us earlier, we'd have explained. The second thing, particularly interesting, is that we have received an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22(1) and Article 29(5). Public enterprise law. The session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives of the National Assembly is scheduled by the chairman of the Committee for 19 December, for St Nicholas with the aim of making this very important. I don't know what's gonna happen if it doesn't happen right then for St. Nicholas? The fact is that the chairman of the Committee, Mr Cvian, was not at the time and was mostly not chaired by that committee. Again here in front of all of you, I have to apologize for not being able to chair the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law because I am not constantly working in the National Assembly, and because at the same time, I was obliged to be second in line to defend the man who is in custody today only because of the public's disturbance that in three, four terms has received the trust of his fellow citizens and 75%. That is why I was unable to attend the Committee's session, and the question and interpretation of that Article is being raised 211. The Code of Criminal Procedure – should public harassment, which threatens the smooth conduct of criminal proceedings, be the reason for detention? But for someone to interpret that I am opening a political topic, which is a couple of excellent political topics, I will return to this only interpretation. The fact is that as MPs, we have received a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives chaired by the President of the National Assembly, Mr Stefanovic, in such a text as to say: that the candidate would be appointed director of a public enterprise it is necessary to meet all the conditions laid down by the Law on Public Enterprises, the Regulation on criteria for the appointment of directors of public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, which was published in 2013, as well as the acts of the Commission for the appointment of the Government. When the Government gave us a proposal for authentic interpretation, I think the only thing that mattered to the Government was that no provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act were applied in the procedure of the appointment of the Director of the Public Enterprise. There's no such thing as authentic interpretation, but there's something else. Now let me explain to you what's absolutely illogical about it. We give an interpretation of how the provision of the Law on Public Enterprises was to be interpreted, which was voted in 2012. In 2012, there was no government regulation in 2013, and we are interpreting that the 2012 provision applies in such a way as to require the conditions of the Law on Public Enterprises, the 2013 Regulation and the conditions laid down in the Commission's acts of appointment of the Government. Nonsens. In 2012, there was no regulation, and we claim that the 2012 Law is valid. Secondly, the law is older than the regulation. What do we interpret as requiring the conditions laid down in a certain regulation to be adopted in the future in relation to the vote of the law? Finally, I'd just like to point out one more thing. To the absurd, first and foremost interpretation of Article 22, paragraph 1. You've got it in the material. It is therefore understood that the director of a public enterprise whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province, is appointed as a person who fulfils the following conditions – that it is full-time and commercially capable, and I do not list that an expert in one or more areas from which the activity is of general interest for which a public undertaking is established, that has a higher education acquired in studies III, a doctor of science, a second-degree master, etc., that has at least five years of working experience, that it is not a member of the political party's body, that it is not convicted of criminal activity against business, legal traffic, official duty, that the person is not given a measure of security and ban on the exercise of activity. So, we're only pulling one sentence, this other one's not working. The dots don't work. It doesn't matter for interpretation. Please pay particular attention to this. We give an interpretation that the candidate would be appointed director of a public enterprise, it is necessary to meet all the conditions laid down in the Regulation on the criteria for the appointment of a director of a public enterprise whose founder is the Republic of Serbia and the acts of the Commission for the designation of a Government, and these conditions apply not only to the Republic Public Enterprise, but also to those public undertakings whose founder is the authority of the AP and units of local self-government. Therefore, a public competition ad is being prepared on one side by the competent ministry, i.e. the authority of the AP administration or local self-government unit. Now, explain to me, is it normal for a company in any local self-government to prescribe the conditions laid down in the Republic of Regulation and the conditions laid down in acts of the Government's appointment committee, and this is a public enterprise in any local self-government? Is that where the authorities got a little mixed up and mixed up what was wanted? If it was to be interpreted that the Public Business Act had a primate compared to the General Administrative Procedure Act, it could have been done much simpler. We now have an authentic interpretation, which serves nothing where we don't get an answer from one who was obviously important to the government, and authentic interpretation because it's being brought into the process of the same, as well as how laws are being passed. The authentic interpretation will fall before the Constitutional Court. Is that what we want? At this point, I ask the question once again – do we need this kind of run-in in authentic interpretation where it is touched by jurisdiction and local self-government, where it is touched by something that has been defined by the Law on Public Enterprises as the authority of the local self-government, just to get to some interpretation that should make it easier for the Government to appoint a director of public enterprises, if someone has so far been called and said – hey, there should be a ZUP, that is, the General Administrative Procedure Act that can be answered – they are not right, but should be subject to the Law on Public Enterprises? It was supposed to be done differently. If technically we want to do an authentic interpretation, ask those who know how to do it and don't suggest authentic interpretation for tomorrow. Let's do it right, 'cause every act that comes out of this room, unless it's a mess, it's for all of us. Whether we voted or not. Were we against it or were we pointing out that something was wrong? In that sense, please no more emergency procedures. Let us read, so that we can give you the most well-intentioned suggestions and act from here, whether the laws are, whether they're authentic interpretations or something else, to make it right. Mr. Minister, it happened to you to amend the Law on Public Property or the Law on Restitution and Return of Assets, they pushed you to sign a bill that went to the Government, and you weren't in charge of it. It was the Department of Justice and the State Administration's jurisdiction. Indisputable, you can defend it, it can defend anyone of that law, but let us respect the procedure and what stands. In August, we passed the Ministry Act, so we didn't respect it. Please accept my discussion in a well-intentioned manner, because no discussion is going to rub anything on anyone's nose, but above all that if we're making something to pretend that we're not ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30657	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30658	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are in the second year of the term of office of this National Assembly, in the second year of the term of office of this Government, and unfortunately, what was the personality of the work in the previous two years of its culmination is experiencing in this session. On the one hand, the obstruction of parliamentary work by the parliamentary majority is incomprehensible, and on the other hand, a month before the start of negotiations with the EU technical date, a technical law aimed at delaying one legislative solution, due to the incompetence of the government and those who pass the laws. Today, by who knows what time in this conference we only pass technical laws, which result in a delay in the extension of deadlines and technical changes. There are not so many essential reform laws, there are no promised reforms, and there are only games, jokes, indifference and dilatetism, which is primarily evident in the insurance bill proposal. I am now asking questions for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which was previously asked by Mr. Mikovic. What happens if we vote for this bill on Thursday and it is said to take effect within eight days, and this previous law provides for a binding deadline of 31 December 2013? Who will fill that void, and who from the ruling majority is responsible for this indifference? Of course, above all, the SNS, who has publicly said that there are no personnel who can lead this country, several times. After that, those who earn, who won't listen. When Mr. Mikovic speaks, you who throw open your notebooks and take notes. As you have not already learned anything through your previous life, if you are not professionally accomplished, if you are not educated enough, educated enough to lead this country, at least listen to those who are. I have a question, who are we going to secure in Serbia next year under this new insurance law? I have to read today's title in "Politics". The title "Every day a job for the government's mandate loses 200,000 people in a year, every day 600 people". You threw trees and stones at us, which is what you say – for our job-free term for four years, 200,000 people, you exceeded that result in just a year. There are 200,000 people left without a job and your imputation to us is not true. These are your indicators and I'm asking who are we going to secure in Serbia next year under this law? Who is it that will be able to pay the costs of any insurance, when, in the year that citizens are reluctant to send and with great uncertainty, they are waiting for this new 2014 year in which you will pass the insurance law, which of these 700,000 unemployed are we going to secure? By what law and what money will they pay for that insurance? Are you aware of what you're doing to this country and where you're taking this ship? It's of course the merit of an incompetent government. And above all, the leading parties in that government, the SNS. Of course, I say we have a very responsible job on January 21st. We should have some very significant bankruptcy laws on the agenda here, we should have laws on privatisation, labour law, but you're not able to write these laws in a quality way, and on the other hand, you don't have a parliamentary majority that can vote. (President: Please return to the topic after all. )......................................................................................................... Thank you. Here's the thing, I'm asking the question again. Who will be responsible that this law ceases to apply to you on 31 December 2013? On Thursday, amendments to the law are expected to be adopted only in eight days. Who's going to fill that legal void? Which one of the insurance houses will tell us – the treasure of this government, how did they arrange our business? I don't think the owners of insurance houses in Serbia support it, that citizens don't support it. That it's a waste of swearing and concealing behind the big ratings, when the big ratings lead this country into a sunroof and ruin. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that our former coalition partners, both from the SPS, and from the JS, and the PUPS, have the strength to pass economic laws. But they don't have the necessary majority, because you're pushing them into elections, into a government crisis. Now I understand why the government crisis is at hand and why you're falling into new elections. You've been overwhelmed by an insatiable desire for even greater power. You've been let down anyway of the fragile moral brakes when it comes to privileges stemming from the exercise of power in your way and on the other hand, you've got nothing left to give. Anything you could have put off... (Chairman: Please, Milivoevich.) I'm done. Anything you could've put off, you'd put it off. All the legal deadlines you could find to create an illusion that the Assembly was doing something, you put it here on the agenda. Each third item of the agenda is to postpone the application of the law, postpone the effects of the law, delay by one year, for two years. I have handed over the amendment to this law. I believe Serbia is about to have an early parliamentary election, and I have proposed an amendment that this law should start to apply on 31 August 2014. By then, Serbian citizens will have the opportunity to declare in the elections whether or not they want such a government, whether they want another ruling majority, and leaves the ruling majority with the possibility that within six months of the election of the new government, a new law on insurance with a binding period of validity, as of 31 August. The next day, after August 31st, is the first September, the day many go to school. I recommend to those who don't know how to write laws to enroll in school on September 1st and that we no longer have this kind of embarrassment and shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30659	Replica, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the concern of the MPs when it comes to applying certain laws. I was deeply touched by the government's incompetence story. I'm asking you a question. This provision was provided for in 2004, so 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012. For all I know, from 2004 to 2013, DS has been part of the government for seven years. I don't understand why she hasn't regulated this area in those seven years. Furthermore, this is not a question of the government's incompetence but of the incompetence of insurance houses and companies, why they did not use their business with legal provisions. Here we meet the insurance companies and companies to give them another year to comply with their business with the law. Otherwise, we feel that the applicable law is not the happiest solution and that it needs to be changed. Let's just look at it rationally, shall we enter into the application of a law that will be changed in a very close period and re-expose insurance companies and new-cost companies with regard to compliance with the law or extend the deadline of this law until the new law enters into force? I think this is more rational than this one. Don't honor the SNS. As far as your concerns are concerned, technically, that deadline can be met in eight days, but we don't mind even accepting an amendment to the voting day to apply the law as of the next day from the day of publication in the Official Messenger, and then we will solve all the problems and misunderstandings that we will have.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30661	Time. Replica, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30662	I thank the Honorable Chairman. In that sentence where you don't know how much DS was in total power, there are many answers to many questions. So, from 2007 to 2012, it's five years, but in some of your maths it's maybe 70 years. But, well, I value everyone's expertise mirror based on the law he's proposing, not on how he counts. It happens to people to count themselves, especially when they're someone else's money by asking. When it comes to the mandate of the DS, it's very easy to count. In particular, you have easily used the sentence that Serbia has failed for the last 12 years. I'm telling you, she stabbed the most after 2012, when you came to power. From 2012 to 2013, Serbia experienced disaster and fiasco. For that sentence of yours where you say the DS wrote the law in 2004, the DS took no responsibility for managing Serbia in 2004. We inherited that law, but you said that you were the best, the smartest, the most educated, the best, that only the best go forward with you and that you would do anything within three months by hand to correct this country with a magic wand. That magic wand looks like it ate a kitten. We can't see him, nor can we see his effects. All we can see is that you're delaying, delaying, modifying, changing dates, and the system laws you promised RS citizens don't bring. What is most frightening for you, and best for the citizens of RS, is that you will no longer be able to be in this composition, because as all of your senior vice presidents, members of SNS Serbia are waiting for extraordinary parliamentary elections in 2014. At that time, the citizens will be told whether this is the way the government is acting, whether they are satisfied or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30663	Time. Mr. Mikovic, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30664	Article 104 of the replica. It's mine to ask because I mentioned dates.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30665	You have no right to a replica. The Republic has Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's again some replacement thesis. We didn't mention the magic wand that we had and don't put it in our mouths. We said there wasn't a magic wand that could get Serbia out of a crisis for a short time, and it wasn't a crisis that the SNS put her in, it was the DS. You've exercised power, not us. You can hide from it, but the facts are impregnable on that point. As for the election, don't put words in our mouths we never said again. I'd like it to be an election. That's my personal opinion, and that election in Belgrade, Vojvodina, elections in Serbia. You're saying that elections happen, and you're asking God not to come to them. It was a feature of a party you mentioned while you were throwing it to me, and the SRS sought extraordinary parliamentary elections between 2009 and 2012, and fled from them not to happen. Now you see how many similarities there are between SRS and DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30667	We're done with the replica. (Srdjan Milivojevic: The mention of the party. ) Please, Milivoevich, you've caused a replica, I've given you a second line, and now we're going off topic. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30668	Dear Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the problems in this area of insurance will not be solved by changes and additions, i.e. by moving deadlines, but by passing a new law, but not by an urgent procedure, which has become a practice in this assembly. Breaking the deadlines for paying the damage and misunderstanding of insurance conditions are the most common causes of client misunderstandings with insurance companies. Experts believe that the objections are justified, as well as that the conditions under urgent need to be simplified. Although confidence in insurance companies has slowly been restored in recent years, there are no rare cases of disagreement between insurance and clients, often due to a lack of understanding of insurance contracts, but also a conscious violation of the rules on both sides. Mr. Minister, in the first half of this year alone, the NBS Consumers Centre received 94 complaints about the work of insurance companies, which is 57% more than for the same period last year. Of course, I don't believe much of this NBS data, because I'm surprised by the governor's statement that currently the smallest inflation in Serbia's history. I don't think the governor's going to visit the markets, and she doesn't know what the prices are right now. I'm going back. The NBS says complaints refer to the amount of compensation offered for damages, untimely compensation for damages and refusal to pay the uncontested part. Mr. Minister, 62% of complaints refer to auto responsibility insurance, 9% on the helmet, accidents is 7%, and life insurance is 4%. As regards the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22(1) and Article 29(5), paragraph 5. I am interested in your opinion, Mr. Minister – is it normal for party directors to be elected at the meetings of one party's presidency in 2013 and to decide how these party directors were doing, whether they were doing well or not? I'd like you to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30669	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the Belgrade University students, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I am, except that I am a member of the SNS Parliament Club and the President of the People's Peasants' Party, that's why I came forward, because this law is being touched by the country's farmers and we're dealing with agricultural production. We will certainly look forward to some new law with great attention, and this is just a law that needs to be given time to pass a better Insurance Act than it is so far, and that we want insurance, which is necessary, to be classified and insurance from droughts and floods. Therefore, in the future, it is considered to be compulsory insurance, with an even greater participation of the state in that insurance, because simply too much agriculture suffers damage, that this has been left to the case and that these damages are from the city, frost, floods, droughts and how large in agriculture and therefore this risk should be reduced to a minimum. We also know that our aged peasants, that our old mechanization, that our old villages cannot pay the corresponding premiums, can't pay the insurance, but since the state should stand behind them and participate in it, I think there is much that can be solved in that way, as far as the damages that are caused on Polish terms are mainly due to the flood, the city and drought. Today, drought insurance is very expensive, and I hardly know any agricultural land that has been secured from drought, given the height to be allocated per hectare, and not to be helped by the state, it would almost be negligible for those who are being secured from the city and floods, and even worse, it is very difficult to collect insurance if the damage goes beyond a million dinars. In a certain way, I was affected by some colleagues from opposition parties who were talking about elemental disasters. I know one of the most important disasters in this country. Elemental accidents of the type of city, frost, flood, drought, and even earthquakes, come and go. Only one elemental accident lasted 12 years, which cost us very dearly. If the tsunami had hit us, I think we'd have been better off. Therefore, I am surprised by the tone and performance of those who are trying to oppose in every way, even when it comes to one technical law, or several technical members, which should give time to do what the previous governments and regimes have done, to do and to pass a new Insurance Act in some subsequent period. We have found a completely abandoned state, economically destroyed, so today, except for public enterprises and public enterprises, in which 740,000 people work, that economic part that is at most at risk almost has no money to secure anything. I'd like, of course, to have as many domestic insurance houses involved in this insurance. I'm not very happy because our financial sector, and I think insurance houses, has almost fully belonged to foreigners, and I think that the insurance and financial market is worth far more, and I'm afraid we'll be in a position to be in a certain way a second-class and third-rate colony, because our entire financial sector and the insurance sector has belonged to foreigners, i.e. foreign banks and foreign insurance companies guaranteed by the domestic state. Only our population, through loans, owes over five billion to foreign banks. So we come completely into some dependent position on finance, banking, insurance. I would like more domestic banks and that those banks that are in the state sector do not serve as gifts to relevant former members of the regime and their parties, such as Agrobanka, such as the "Metalls Banka", that is, the former "Metals Banka". I think there are also various affairs in the insurance houses that were during the former regime. I hope that the current government, as well as the future one called upon by those who will hardly censure, will take care of it and that we will get out of the position that others have pushed us into. There is much being said here, and it is forgotten that this government, as it is, I am not fully satisfied, was able to revive production, to raise the social product by 2%, to reduce inflation, to stop the growth of the course, and thus to break one negative trend, despite the fact that this country, in addition to what I said, is in charge of incredible, without making any choice to repay the debt. It's hard to have a household, to raise, which has a decomposed yard, which has an abandoned land, where half the land has been sold out, the machinery sold out, without elevators, seeds, unscheduled land when you find it, it's hard to run such a household, especially when it's credited with, for that loan, nothing that would have brought that household back to life. I want the next government, if it is in debt, and I advise it to sell the country to farmers after the restitution, and in such a way to make a financial step and the possibility of funding the peasants' holdings and thus to revive the social product through the development of agriculture, the food industry, the energy from agriculture, and thus to go into some future period and to make the growth of the social product from the current 2% go to 5% annually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30671	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30672	Vice-President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will talk more about this second point – a proposal for an authentic interpretation of certain provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises. I have to say that I was quite surprised to see that in fact the only topic around which this Parliament will give authentic interpretation as an authority that passed by law this issue which is nevertheless secondary, in terms of the Law on Public Enterprises. My question to you, Mr. Krstic – why did we not enter into the process of interpreting some other provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises that are very controversial? One of the key provisions is the obligation to call competitions in public enterprises, which is defined by the decision of this Assembly, i.e. by an appropriate member of the Public Enterprise Act, on the one hand. Therefore, the Law on Public Enterprises says that in all companies to which the law applies competitions for the selection of directors will be opened by 30 June 2013. As everyone here knows, as the public in Serbia knows, there is no competition in all companies to which the Law on Public Enterprises applies. I am talking first and foremost about enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, which are run by the Serbian government, on behalf of Serbian citizens. You know that the competitions are not scheduled in "Serbiagas", in PTT and in the railways, with the fact that in some ways the position of railways is specific because of the transformation process that exists in the state-owned company. Mr. Krstic, we have been discussing for months whether competitions must be called in these companies or not. As far as I know, as a People's MP, there is some interpretation of the Republic's Legislative Secretariat that says that in some companies it is not mandatory to call this contest, but it is a couple of excellencies of the subject that we could discuss here and give the interpretation of the law. If we had defined ourselves for such a procedure, that is, if the government had shown above all the political ambition to resolve this issue once, at least before the end of its term, it would have been uncontested that the will of this Parliament, or its intention when it passed that law, or when it adopted the LDP amendment that introduces that obligation, was to discuss competitions in all businesses. Then we would resolve this situation, and this problem that you have, we would move it from a political field where you, or the party representatives who proposed you to be the minister, are constantly saying that there is no willingness for some coalition partners to discuss competitions and that the directors are elected in the competition, even in these two companies that I mentioned – PTT and "Srbigas". The assembly would impose that obligation, I hope, and we would have at least started solving problems in these companies within a few weeks, and above all, I mean "Srbigas". Instead, you have defined yourself to move the entire National Assembly to interpret one member who is not in particular important or particularly controversial, that we are in a position to arbitration between the special regime established by this law, some government regulation and the general regime of the Administrative Procedure Act. If the problem is in some specific cases, i.e. some specific companies, election procedures, then it is fair and fair that this Assembly knows what these cases are. I would not like the Parliament's decision, this time in the form of authentic interpretation, to be a way to address some problems that are necessarily political and not legal, not the issue of interpretation of the law in the selection process. Mr. Krstic, it would be important to find out today and how long have the selection procedures for directors in public enterprises at the republican level, that's 35-36 companies? It has been six months since the deadline until the government had an obligation to initiate the election procedure for these directors. So, the law has not yet been applied to most companies, and you will soon be in the government, if the government meets at all in this system more, deciding on the shifts already five directors, as announced by the SNS. I suppose it will also serve as some kind of motivation or at least the means of political pressure for other coalition partners to get into the process of changing their directors, so to speak, or as you officially say, those directorial places where you took responsibility for the functioning of public enterprises. Mr. Krstic, we won't have elected directors of public enterprises in the next six months. It's clear to everyone in this room. The country will go to elections and those now in the "vd" state or have been elected in the last few weeks of applying the old law, will lead public enterprises in Serbia for at least six or seven months, until the election process is over and some new government is formed in Serbia. It's not a routine question for Serbia, Mr. Krstic, and especially not a routine question for you. You're the finance minister. These are the companies with which you have the most problems and when you understand the budget and when you take care of the implementation of the budget in the first half of 2014. The director of Railways has tried to make a social public event in this country since the announcement of a new timetable. It's the only thing he's been able to do in the past few weeks. I don't know if he's on the shift list or not on the shift list. You'll have to see that in the government. In public, there's speculation about it. Some other directors of other public enterprises are also in a similar situation. This is far more important for both the country and the congregation than whether it is necessary to provide evidence that someone is adult or businessly capable. I wish we had talked about these problems, Mr. Cross. About the fact that you have another director of a public enterprise who says his model of running that public enterprise is so fantastic that even the representatives of the DHL come to inform themselves about how this company works. Let's just say, I'd like to talk about the question -- where are the sources of this company's sudden profit? How much would the profit, for example, be PTT companies, or the Post Office of Serbia, that different rules apply on the issue of business space, that say Telecom is not a domestic state-owned company, but that business space can be a little more freer, more liberal to rent on the market? Would it then be such successful business results for PTT Serbia? Mr. Baptizer, you and I both know we wouldn't be. I'm not saying this to complain to anyone, I'm just trying to draw you and this Parliament in some way to what damage it will be from not being defined at this point in time for a comprehensive interpretation of the Law on Public Enterprises in those parts where it is controversial or for the adoption of a new law. Obviously, this law didn't work in practice, in a hundred ways. We could have opened another question that was questionable. Maybe our amendments weren't clear enough back then. They were also the result of a compromise with the government, or the ruling coalition, so whenever the opposition is doing the amendment and trying to at least some of what is important to her, and it was important for us to introduce a public competition obligation, to impose a ban on advertising, or advertising for mono-political public enterprises, when we actually wanted to introduce it into the law. The moment is to open the question -- can it be advertised, say, during the World Handball Championships company "Electroprivreda Srbija", "Srbigas", are they allowed to advertise or not to advertise? That's an important question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30673	Mr. Djuric, please return to the topic after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30674	I agree with Mr. Arsenovic, everyone is in a hurry in this room. I will no longer retain your attention or burden other MPs, questions as to how the Law on Public Enterprises is applied. Here I leave you to agree that it is necessary to hire the National Assembly to determine whether it is necessary for someone to submit a copy of the birth certificate, and whether taxpayers' money will be wasted to advertise monopoly companies, which, by the way, have no competition on the market, will likely be dealt with by some new assembly of parliament. I think it's fair for everyone to know that the maximum achievement of such a formalised political majority is that you're dealing with whether someone should bring a copy of the birth certificate, and that in some other relationship of strength or strength, we can only deal with serious issues in this country. Good luck spending the coming holidays.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30675	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30676	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very difficult to define how to discuss this item of the agenda, i.e. this united debate which essentially has one law, one authentic interpretation, and that law I have three members of which are two non-applicable. I believe, Minister, it is quite unpleasant for you today to sit in the hall and defend those three members of which are two inapplicable, and you are represented as a man who should get Serbia out of the crisis. I don't think that's all you have to say about getting Serbia out of the crisis. I'll tell you what it looks like. So if the law that you are defending here today were adopted, would it be so, he would enter into force if it were adopted on December 25th, as you suggested, that is, as announced by the Vice-President of the Assembly, December 25th plus eight days of entry into force, that would be December 33rd. You know there's no such date. It's only so possible, if in that sense, if this law really started to apply on 1 January 2014, we know that December is 31 days, I don't think that it's controversial for everyone here, although it might even be discussed, is that such a proposal you've tabled. On the other hand, someone here spoke from the ruling majority's representatives, otherwise today, according to these laws, none of the authorised representatives from the ruling parties reported to defend, these laws, or this law, by all means, with the greatest possible efforts they've ever made to defend and what is indefensible to common sense, they realized that it was a wasteful job. No one has reported to defend these laws that you ministers have come here on duty to defend. Someone mentioned in the discussion the political responsibility and responsibility of the insurance company,
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30677	Just to deny you Veselinović, the ruling coalition said Milanka Jeftic Vukojčić, Zeljko Susec and Marijan Rističević, for the sake of truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30678	For the sake of truth, the chairman didn't listen to me very carefully. I said none of the authorized representatives defended this law, and if you'd listened to me carefully then you wouldn't have interrupted me and said something I didn't talk about. So, there were speakers defending it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30679	It's okay, now we've explained ourselves, now we're clear and that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30680	So one of the MPs who defended this law, which is theoretically impossible to defend, spoke of insurance against political uncertainty or insurance against damage committed by the government or the ruling coalition. I believe there is no insurance company in the world that would accept this government from political responsibility because it would be a huge risk to one Lloyd, because they imply that the damage in these two years will be about 10 billion euros in the new government's debt. I believe that no one would go into such a risk if you were re-secured, Mr. Minister, I hope you agree because I think you've probably studied insurance risks by studying the general risks of the economy you've worked on. When it comes to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, therefore, I said that it has three members of which are inapplicable and the question is really being asked, and someone has already pointed out, was it not more politically useful, wiser for the country and the economy above all more effectively and better, that a new insurance law has been passed than has been put in place in such an unsuspecting, unprepared and amended law, which means only on the one hand a postponement, and on the other hand, the possibility that insurance companies would be provided by foreign insurance companies, i.e. resecuring companies for the entire amount of resecuring. That law was certainly more necessary to us. We also needed many other laws that you along the way, ministers, or Prime Minister, announced the first Deputy Prime Minister, a number of reforms not only in the area of insurance but in the area of economy. We expected you to propose some laws that would get the country out of the collapse that you're all talking about these days. Let us say that you will pass a law, a new bankruptcy law, that is, you will bring in an act that may solve some problems in the economy. No one mentions the cooperative law. We have a Law on Cooperatives that is overcome, which has a serious impact on cooperativeism and practically no real framework for the work of cooperatives in the modern sense of saying that they exist in the world today. It is made up, located in one of the drawers or cabinets of one of the ministers in this once reconstructed government and before that to the government that generally talks, the whole government, about deadlines. You first talked about the deadline for reconstruction, six months, the dates for reconstruction. Now you're talking about election dates. You talked about the dates when the Emirat money would arrive, right? It was usually tied to December 31st. Here's December 31st, no money, no investment, nothing you promised. Instead, we have before us the law, amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, in which there are three members, of which two, I repeat once again inapplicable. So you did not enter into a legal procedure with regulations that would affect growth, i.e. suspending the process, i.e. reducing unemployment, increasing employment. We heard here today in the debate that 600 people are out of work a day in Serbia, in order to stop borrowing, to bring order into the banking system, where only banks profit in this situation, etc. etc. When the question is authentic interpretation of the Law on Public Enterprises, it is only a real pearl in the work of this Parliament. This Assembly should pass a law on authentic interpretation, a Law on Public Enterprises that has been relatively recently adopted, which has been announced as a serious renaissance of public enterprises, the departisation of public enterprises, the introduction of expertise, the introduction of order, competitions for the selection of directors, etc. There's not a word from the minister. Answer us ministers to the question of how many directors are in public enterprises in the first place, let's limit ourselves to a republican level, named under this new Law on Public Enterprises? They could probably count on the finger of one hand. How many of these public enterprises are there? Dozens. They include the directors who were elected, ministers, they probably introduced you to it when you took office, on the party line? Any directors, any v.d. Directors. In the same way they are now being replaced by the SNS presidency, they are being set up in the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30681	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30682	The President, the topic of the 2nd item of the agenda in the joint debate, is the authentic interpretation of the application of the Law on Public Enterprises, in the section relating to the selection of the Director of Public Enterprises, the provision of Article 22(1) of Article 1(1). The law on public enterprises, which reads – as the director of a public enterprise whose founder is the Republic of Serbia or the Autonomous Region, is named a person who meets the following conditions, and is then said to be a full-time and business capable person. So we could conclude from this that whoever submitted the initiative for authentic interpretation had the goal of obtaining an answer from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that only an underage child means a underage child cannot be the director of a public enterprise in the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm talking about. That's the darkness. So, it's very isolated from this request in relation to the very member for which the interpretation is sought. One view of that member is taken to interpret the position of the legislator in relation to that member with that one position which he can and in what way he can submit the documentation and who has the burden of proof, authenticity and documentation. So, a very strange request. An even weirder answer that we need to say here. It is said, in that sense, that this one point is, in that sense, the burden of proof of compliance with all the conditions falls on the applicant for a public competition for the appointed director, which means that the candidate is obliged to deliver evidence of compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 22. Laws on public enterprises and other evidence required by advertising on public competition. What's new here? What have the directors submitted so far to be appointed director of a public enterprise and whether they have submitted the SNS presidency's decision, or if any other document has been submitted, whose credibility here is under question, which is why such an interpretation is even important? Someone really mentioned it rightly, which is why we didn't ask for an authentic interpretation of certain other provisions, the type until when public enterprises are obliged to discuss competitions for the selection of directors and that they are elected under the Law on Public Enterprises. There was a very clear and decadent, imperative deadline until they were obliged to do so and the ministers did not. You're not giving us an answer today, which is why there are party people sitting there today, but you're interpreting that he can't be the director of a public enterprise, a minor. I don't think it's a real issue, nor is it serious, nor do I feel that the Assembly should make a statement about it. It should be made clear as to whether the directors who have been appointed on the party line, which is strictly prohibited by the Law on Public Enterprises, if it is consistently interpreted, could they continue to sit in public enterprises? Is their status legal and legitimate now? If we apply the Law on Public Enterprises directly, one can manage a public enterprise unless it is elected under the Law on Public Enterprises, it is by some other ordinary rules. The usual rules are that the director can be anyone who's a minor. Anyone who turns 19 after you can be the director of a public firm. In that sense, I believe that this debate today is quite unnecessary, that we here on the agenda have laws that we did not expect at the end of this government's term to be announced by individual announcements, elections in the Republic of Serbia, that we should today discuss how normally and how parliaments of other countries in this period are discussing key laws concerning the conduct of the country's economic and other policies in the coming period, and we are discussing three members, of which two are inapplicable. What will you do, Mr. Minister, if Mr. Mikovic withdraws his amendment before voting day? Yet you will have to submit an amendment to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, under which December will be 33 days or we will have a legal vacuum in the application of existing laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30683	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome children without parental ageing and their guardians engaged in a project of social inclusion – generations of the future, who are currently monitoring the work of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. Thank you. [[Applause]] Does the minister want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30684	As for the Law on Amendments to the Insurance Act, I've already said Article 1 and I don't think there's been much disagreement if we sublime these discussions we've had so far. Article 2 on the move of deadlines, I'm not going to call on that, a settled practice when it comes to this particular member and this particular law. The idea is to adopt the new insurance law in the first half of next year. The National Bank of Serbia will propose the law and the law has already been in public debate once, there have been many suggestions, and public hearings are planned for January of next year. I would also mention that it is not in the government's jurisdiction, which we understand, of course, because it is an independent institution, but co-operation there exists between the Ministry of Finance and the NBS. Together, it is working on drafting the law that will be ready for a new public debate already early next year. Shortening the date to less than that, I just don't think it's something that's recommended right now. Nothing would happen, especially because, at least according to the current draft which is discussed between the Ministry of Finance and the NBS, the member to whom this deadline concerns the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, i.e. legal persons who do so, will decide during the public debate whether this is something to go, given that the EU regulation which meant this in 2004 when this law was first adopted, actually changed and that the possibility of a single legal entity has been left, however, with significant so-called. Chinese walls within the society itself, there can be both works. Finally, to be clear, we spent the most time, at least on this law saying, of Article 3 that says - this law takes effect on the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". When we passed this law, as Government, it was December 18th, so there was space. If the National Assembly in accordance with its dynamics of the session, which is something that is a prerogative, i.e. the full right of the National Assembly, schedules a session for later, we are very willing to accept the amendment as a government, to publish the next day in the "Official Messenger", we are willing to propose it, too, if necessary. It is simply a technical solution to avoid a legal vacuum, which is basically the reason for adopting, or proposing this law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. I think that's why he's in an emergency procedure. Of course, a law that has three members, even though I don't think it's a good practice, I don't think it's a threat to the discussion about that. This is about the law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which is directly in the management of the Ministry of Finance. The second topic we talked about about public enterprises, I don't think there are any, about what's on the agenda, about some too many issues of doubt. There have been many other discussions. I think we'll have a chance, if I'm not mistaken Thursday afternoon and answer some of them, in this new session, the government's parliamentary issues. As for the application of the law itself on public enterprises, as such, of course the law must be applied. I've pointed that out more than once, and I think we're about to move in that direction. I think it must be faster to set up a director in competitions and to set criteria for the performance of these companies, i.e. the success of the management of these companies by the directors. In the end, I can't deny what I was already talking about when we talked about the budget, that without it and without a clear differentiation between social policy, the extraction of social policy from public enterprises and the introduction of order into public enterprises, we have no chance in this reform, so that on that side is something that this government is talking about and has to address very energetically, more energetically, I would say, than it has been the case so far even though we're headed in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30685	Since this was the Prime Minister's closing statement, I don't think you have the right to a replica. I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Commission on the control of criminal sanctions submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before the search opens, I remind you that it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament, which you have received in support. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the president, MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask whether they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) We have two reported, I apologize, now I've got it, it's a mistake, we have two MPs on report. The word has Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30686	This is about a proposal to elect a member of the commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions, and it is understandable that the moment Mr. Neđo Jovanovic as a member of the commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions has now practically resigned as a member of the MP and became State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, it is normal to choose a certain candidate. The truth is, at the Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government session itself, I was thinking that it would be worth it if we had three members from the post already in the commission's membership, that they would be two members from the opposition. However, given the mood of the members of the Justice Committee itself, a consultation has already been carried out to make Mrs. Maja Gojkovic a candidate for a commission member. As far as I'm concerned, I don't mind. I hope that I will respond to the task being set, to control the way in which the prison type's criminal sanctions are carried out, but also the way the detention units operate themselves, because this commission needs to respond to a great task that practically in situations where someone is deprived of freedom, that there is no way to violate human rights. We have a situation where, in the application of certain rules in force in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there is a certain interpretation that it is possible to talk about whether the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Law on the exercise of criminal sanctions is being violated in a certain way or whether human rights are being violated. Today, explaining why I failed to attend a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I explained that I have examples of when in a particular application, in particular the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is an eclectic violation of human rights, especially by overexplication of provisions concerning alleged public harassment, and especially the alleged disturbance of the public concerned by such a disturbance that I am a prosecutor or a court doubts my objectivity. In that sense, I believe that the responsibility of all the members of the Commission is extremely great, to listen to every time they threaten the danger of human rights violations, because just when human rights are threatened, especially those who are deprived of freedom, where they will look first and foremost, they will look at that institution where the MPs sit. We should be aware that, as members of the Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions, we should point out in every place where we can, not only at the Commission's meetings, not only at the Committee on Justice, but also at the plenary sessions of the National Assembly, if there is an example of human rights violations. I avoid, here and now, to mention names, to mention any individual cases, but I point out that there is a violation of certain human rights, especially in persons deprived of liberty and where the question of when certain measures are supposed to be extended. It makes sense, if it threatens the influence of witnesses and the destruction of evidence and makes sense if it threatens the danger of escape, but the question of so-called public harassment, I think, especially now in a situation where there are chapters 23 and 24, so the question of justice and the question of human rights is extremely important. Again, I must say, I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to speak on the previous agenda and point to something Mr. Minister mentioned in his story, which was a matter of jurisdiction. I am also speaking here about jurisdiction, which is whose jurisdiction, because we were in a situation where the National Bank is responsible for amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. How? If there's something in the government and there's another, if there's something in the bank, then that's what it's for. I'm going back to this topic, I had to point it out, because it was in the discussion, but in any case, if we're in charge of the Commission itself to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions for human rights, let's take care of it and point out to all those who interpret the Code of Criminal Sanctions, in particular the Code of Criminal Procedure, that there must be no violation of human rights, especially in the matter of detention itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30687	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30688	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the democratic capacity of a society is seen in readiness, above all, by the ruling majority in this society to respect the opposition and to leave to the opposition, as far as possible, more control roles and functions both in parliament and in other institutions. It is very important in society, which is either in dictatorship or in dictatorship, that in this society, where political arrests exist, people representing the political parties of the opposition, are given insight into how criminal sanctions are carried out in such a society. Unfortunately, Serbian society in the previous period has stepped deeply towards dictatorship, not yet tyranny, but certainly towards dictatorship. In such a society, it is very important that members of opposition parties sit in the Commission for the resolution of criminal sanctions for control. And not only are they sitting down, it's very important that they go to prisons, talk to detained persons, with convicted persons, especially in our custody, unfortunately, being treated as a kind of punishment. At a time when tabloid consciousness is created in Serbia, at a time when daytime tabloids have become party ballots and party bulletins, at a time when insinuations are made on the state of the arrested citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their treatment in prisons, and I will remind only that it is in your tabloids, under your direct party control, which comes down to party bulletins, such as "Informer" and "Kurir", it said that Sasa Dragin was beaten in prison. Whether they lied or not, the Commission was supposed to sit down, go to jail unannounced and check on Sasha Dragina, to see if it was true or not. This is not the job of a member of the Commission. It is the work of all the members of the Commission. Unfortunately, in our society such willingness, such respect for the opposition does not exist. I would like to discuss today, not only on human resources and appointments, but on what the Commission has done for the control of the execution of criminal sanctions in the past year, that citizens have seen how many members of the Commission have visited the arrest, who are those persons, whether some have abused their profession and the fact that they have been lawyers, so they have gone to their clients, defending themselves behind the legitimacy of a member of the Commission, and we have had such announcements by the SNS itself that one member of the Commission is visiting one of the arrests and that he is visiting him as a lawyer, and that he is serving as a member of the Commission for the execution of criminal sanctions, and that one was from the position of the authorities, not the opposition. It is also important that the Commission regularly tours prisons in Serbia to determine the real situation, so that it is not just the work of the OSCE and humanitarian organisations. I have a question – how many such visits to unannounced prisons of the Republic of Serbia have been made by the Commission in which most members of the position are sitting? How many prisons did you go to? How many arrested persons? How many convicted persons? Have you checked how many of them were anti-constitutional in custody? Did you report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? We didn't get that kind of answer. On the other hand, in the prisons of the Republic of Serbia there are...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30689	Mr Milivojevic, I understand and this is a very interesting question, but you must admit that it is not the subject of the Commission's work to control the execution of criminal sanctions, but rather the selection of a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30690	If you'll excuse me, I can't just talk about a member of the Commission, his character and his work, his biography, but I have to remind a member of the Commission what his obligation is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30691	I must say that you are putting other MPs in a position that they cannot discuss the work of this Commission now, and you are taking the right to discuss it. I don't think it's correct, in that sense, to lead the debate. Go back to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30692	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, is the subject of what the future board member is going to do? I think so. A future commission member should tour prisons and see what the situation of arrested persons in prisons is
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30693	I don't think that's the point either.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30694	Then let's see what the subject is in your opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30695	Here it writes well – a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Commission for Control...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30696	Okay, we're choosing Peru Peric today. I ask Peru Peric if he is capable of doing the job, given that war crimes convictions are in prison of the Republic of Serbia, and one member of the commission said Srebrenica is a brilliant military operation? Is that a theme?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30697	You know that, you're so wise and smart, I don't want to teach you how to discuss it. Please don't have a dialogue in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30698	I'll end up like this. The silence about dictatorship is consenting to dictatorship. If you're making me keep my mouth shut about dictatorship, you're making me agree to dictatorship. I can't do it, and I won't do it as an DS MP and a member of the Resistance, who, in prison, spent 46 times nothing guilty, nothing caused by the authorities, I've been in prison 46 times. I have experience in the abuses of the Commission to determine criminal sanctions. Unfortunately, I am obviously disabled in the Serbian Parliament, at the end of this call, to talk about it. I recommend a future conference to take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-23-0.u30699	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask whether the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We're finishing work today. The paper continues on Thursday, December 26th at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 68 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today is Thursday, the day when the MPs are based on Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may request information or explanations. Please sign in. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
