ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12446	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 2005, when the Government of Vojislav Kostunica took away the investigative right of the so-called European Nikl company, they do not cease to be the most fertile part of Šumadija and the most beautiful part of Šumadija and western Serbia, i.e. the territories of the municipalities of Topol, Arangelovac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Čajetina and the nature park of Mokru Gora. In the spring of 2011, then Minister Dulic gave an investigative right to the company that was founded in those days by the "Serbian Nikl", represented in public by former MP Mr Bozovic, otherwise the party friend of Minister Duluc and someone who was an assistant minister of mining at the time of lobbying and when this investigative license was issued, and now, behold, he is a consultant at the same firm, "Serbian Nikl". In the end, all of this was inherited by Minister Bacevic, who instead of returning all this to the beginning, or withdrawing the license, as orderlyly, shocked the citizens of Serbia when he explained that the sulphuric technologies would be the path of Serbia's progress, and when on TV on November 2, 2012, Hepi, SANU, doctors, citizens who rebelled against this project were called a group of hooligans who were warmed up by beer at a local store, protecting their private interest, causing problems to the state. I don't find myself in this text, but I find myself, for God's sake, in that part of those people who consciously defend their country from these terrible things. He forgot Mr Bacevicsamo to tell us that this economic interest will also be on the side of the Serbian Nikl company, and not on Serbia's side, which of the money he receives will not be able to do anything for his environment that will completely suffer, nor for the health of citizens who will also suffer. Of course, research already exists in the '60s and '70s, but it's important that this company does it for small money, precisely because this right implies now and the right of the championship to exploit. They did not help convince SANU and Serbian academics, doctors, environmental experts, MPs and DSS parties, environmentalists, citizens. Citizens eventually joined together and their local self-governments made decisions not to want to exploit or explore nickels on their territory. However, this firm only understands the language of profit and that's fine. Every firm, after all, deals with the team. But I don't understand a state that understands the language of a company's profits. I have to mention, because of what I'm trying to say later, it's among those who insist that nickel never exploited Serbia and famous director Kusturica. Among other things, there was now a short period of silence until the public talked about nickel, but then, as thunder from the clear sky, echoed the statement by Mr. Bozovic, the director of the company and the company "Serbian Nikl", which was the introduction to what was later followed, meaning the draft law presented in public hearing, the Law on Geological Research and Mining. I'll read you that statement. She's very interesting. She says this: no one burns until dawn, so she will not burn Emir Kusturica. Not forever they, I don't know why they're talking about Emir Kusturica, can block the state's interest. I have to ask – is this a state or a private interest of someone's? So far, mostly representatives of the firm have been engaged in their private interests, and the minister spoke of the state interest. We have an interesting story here that the company's representative deals with the state interest. Then we saw why the law was made and what goes on. We saw a draft new law on geological research and mining, which they say entered a public debate. Of course, there was no public debate, nor will there be. The draft was designed precisely for "Serbian Nikl" and for the following companies dealing with it, and of course, should prevent local self-governments from making decisions regarding their territory and the health of their citizens. I have to read a quote now because the citizens have been sending me various letters this weekend, so that quote is meant to go to a public debate. It says - perhaps in the announced amendments to the Law on Geological Research, the internet should be abolished in Serbia, because it misinformed the people and significantly endangers the general interest or, for example, in the final provisions of the law, put all mentioned domestic, foreign and world research into the harmfulness of the exploitation of nickels. We've passed the Archon Convention, we've passed the Constitution, we've passed many laws. Now I ask, Mr. Prime Minister -- does he know that Serbia has signed an Archon Convention that requires citizens to participate in decision-making? What will the government do with the draft law that violates this constitution, because the Constitution and other laws of citizens have the right to a healthy environment? I ask, Minister of Health – why is he not involved in this public debate and why does he not launch the story of research how much the exploitation of nickel affects the health of citizens? Finally, for Mr. Bačević, a question – whose interest does he protect, state or private companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12448	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of defense to practice in Bundenstag who are currently following a part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Present are: Kristijan Dujmovic, Lena Perović and Mirjana Glintic. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12449	Dear Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Minister Selakovic, it is good that he is the minister of justice, the state administration Mr Selakovic today in parliament with which the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club has excellent communication. I hope on the basis of some informal agreements that we will continue to co-operate on the changes in the CAP and the Restitution Act. As he has committed himself to his political platform in this mandate, the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club that we will support everything that we think is good, and a lot of it is better than the previous period when it comes to an important state strategy on the most important issues, so we believe that the issue of changing the electoral law must be important and must be brought into the interests of the citizens of Serbia, in particular decentralisation in order to manage Serbia according to the best European models. First of all, I mean co-operation between the SPO and other political parties, with CESID in the draft electoral law and with the SPO and DHSS proposals concerning Serbia having to be divided or should be divided into three or more constituencies. Today, according to this election law, MPs in this parliament can be all to the last tenant of a Belgrade soloist. So 250 MPs could theoretically be MPs from a Belgrade soloist. In the previous term, and then we warned that it was necessary to amend the electoral law, about 40 municipalities in Serbia did not have their representatives in this parliament. This is a problem that must be solved because no political group from Belgrade, not one MP from Belgrade, not one political group from Vojvodina, not one MP from Vojvodina to protect the interests of Shumadija. If Serbia were to be divided into more electoral units, then those people who are tied to their homeland would be able to solve the problems of the place, and this would be an example and an indication that the country wants to decentralised and to settle according to the best European models. In our programme platform on decentralisation, we have proposed amendments and additions to the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. I will introduce Mr Selakovic to this programme act of ours and demand that it be interrupted with views that Serbia needs to increase the electoral censorship, as it is necessary for Serbia to continue to be a single electoral unit. In this way, we would suppress all the different opinions, curb the possibility of people from the areas most affected by this centralist policy that they hope for a better life in perspective, hope for opportunities for employment and some kind of economic recovery of those dying. After all, it would also be a battle against the white plague that shakes Serbia in this way, because representatives, for example, of Veljkov Krajina who dies, who disappears, would be, or most of all, MPs in this parliament and thus defend the interests of places or ends where they come from. I think this is a very important question, that we'll work together on it. I think Minister Selakovic has this dose of sensitivity that we could come up with the best possible solution to protect the interests of all people who are threatened by the fact that they do not live in Belgrade or live in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12450	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12451	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I have a question for the Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Protection. In fact, I was contacted by parents who were severely ill and disabled children looking for the status of care providers because they were forced to take care of their children for 24 hours a day. They appeal for help because of the difficult situation and the difficult handicaps of their children because they are forced to quit or work part - time so that they can take care of their children. Under the current Social Protection Act, the parents of severely ill children have the right to their fifth year of life to go to sick leave. However, they face a huge misunderstanding from their employers and are therefore forced to place their children in institutions, special institutions, or to quit. Given the fact that many diseases deteriorate after five years of life, they demand that their status be resolved, that they receive cash compensation for caring for their children for 24 hours as a foster care system in Serbia and as a law-solved foster care system. Also, under the current Social Protection Act, these children's parents have the right to retire after 15 years and receive a minimum pension. Many of them are not able to hold a job and get a pension until the age of 15, due to frequent absences of their children. My question has been addressed to the Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Protection, to answer me - is it being prepared, is it in the preparation of the Resolute Ministry of Change of the Social Protection Act and is the solution to this issue at hand, since there are 20,000 parents who are seriously ill children waiting for a solution to this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12452	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12453	Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's finally stop acting like there's no life outside this room. He is running and I think that in front of every citizen of Serbia and the MP today he is making a commitment to speak or to ask some questions in this House. So, no matter what they offer us most often in response to political leaders or political champions, I think the only real obligation of the state is, in fact, the only thing the state can't do is lie to its citizens. The only thing the state owes its citizens is that truth. At this point in time when the public is so upset about a few events that, in fact, are deeply intruding into our national interests, concerning human health and life. I ask the Prime Minister, Resort Minister and the entire government, what exactly is the situation at this time with the quality of milk in the Republic of Serbia, without any intention of politicizing this topic, LDP will not do it without any intention to panic further? Our ambition is to avoid this panic. At this point, there are conflicting, drastically different interpretations about it, is the milk used or purchased, which is currently sold in stores across Serbia, correct for use, is it jeopardising health or not? I'm afraid that if we don't get such answers from the government today, that panic will become unbearable, that this issue will turn very quickly into inter-party competition and competition, and that it will actually be the most endangered citizens of this country again. In the end, they look superficial, pointless, technical, bureaucratic euro integration. We introduce some standards, adopt laws, and then when a crisis occurs and happens, we can't answer a very simple question – is it right or isn't it right? This morning, I heard the Serbian Government Minister, Mrs Kalanovic, offering an answer that doesn't matter, since our standards are ten times sharper than American standards anyway. Okay, so why do we have standards like that? Let's make normal standards, which will allow unquestionable answers. The second question was also addressed to the prime minister, health ministers and the entire government, how is it possible that in a country that ended last week in debt for a billion and a half dollars, people are dying just because humanitarian aid for their treatment abroad didn't arrive quickly enough? Serbia's health system, especially for severe and rare diseases, cannot rest on the idea of humanity of voluntary contributions, solidarity, the willingness of society to help. People in this country pay health insurance, and for that money they give, they have to get at least a decent health care service. At this point, this country cannot provide its citizens. There's a system way to solve this. The system way is in Serbia's budget. We have proposed an amendment to this Parliament to increase the ridiculously small, insufficient amount for the treatment of those suffering from severe illnesses, for this matter there was no readiness. What's to happen that, I'm not just talking about this government, this Parliament, all those who deal with it in this country, would realize that it's more important than any highly sophisticated rocket? So, first - elementary health, first - clear answers about whether milk is right or not, first – the possibility for everyone to be treated when in a difficult situation, since before that he paid for insurance, rather than on the basis of solidarity, and then big plans on airplanes, trucks and regional leaders. My last, third question, and actually through the answer to that question, we're going to get an answer to this -- why do we live in a country like this? One billion dollars and a half of a new debt, last week, for the fifth time, I ask the prime minister and the finance minister -- how much of that money will go to pay off the old ones, as he says "expensive loans", which I can agree with, and how much is the new debt and new spending? It is a very simple question to which I also believe I can get an answer within a much shorter time than the one foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12454	Thank you. The word is by MP Mirna Kosanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12455	The issue is for the minister of justice, on behalf of workers, shareholders from Beko, who went bankrupt after the privatisation process. Namely, the Association of Shareholders "Beka" a.d. in bankruptcy, was established by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and has a total of four thousand shareholders. That's how it's registered in Belgrade, with shareholders, "Beka" workers living all over Serbia. The question specifically concerns workers, shareholders, 300 of them, who live in Kovin. The company was in bankruptcy, launched by the Commercial Court in 1996. So far, property of Beko's 66m company has been sold, and creditors are mostly calmed down since 2008, with their claims, which will say their claim is now inaccurate. Workers of Beka, shareholders who have 59.83 shares in this company, ask the question – when will the bankruptcy procedure that was launched in 2003 be completed and how will their claims from the company's bankruptcy be settled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12456	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12457	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, I, on behalf of 50,000 military pensioners and beneficiaries of military pensions, want to ask the question of the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Defence, and it is related to the rights of the beneficiary of military pensions to extraordinary pension coordination for 11.06% of 1 January 2008. That right is questionable. Users of military pensions have filed lawsuits and the Constitutional Court has made a decision whose argument is that a violation of basic human rights has taken place in favour of the exercise of the right to pension and has returned to the Administrative Court to bring an appropriate verdict. The administrative court, in practice, has been silent for eight months, although the constitutional decision has been told that it is under obligation to deliver an appropriate verdict within 60 days. We are discussing these days respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and we have a phenomenon that the body that is, in fact, the most called upon to respect the Constitutional Court's decision does not respect it. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Justice, is the Administrative Court bound to respect the Constitutional Court and reach a verdict within the time limit? We have a legal remedy for it, but the consequences behind it are great. Fifty thousand lawsuits, huge expenses, first of all we push into the pockets of lawyers, and that's all to be paid by military pensioners. I'll just read what the Constitutional Court said to that question. "The beneficiaries of military pensions, the applicants of constitutional appeals, which the court has respected, have applied to the Constitutional Court for the execution of each individual decision in those cases unless the Administrative Court has acted in accordance with the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision." So we have a legal remedy, but I'd like to simply avoid unnecessary costs, as was the 2004 debt. In this regard, I have a question – how do the departments in charge see this problem resolved if the Administrative Court, or the Constitutional Court, makes a valid verdict? Certainly, the country is in a difficult financial situation and I think it is one of the solutions for the debt created from 2008 to today to be translated into public debt, and for the increase in pensions to be resolved, that this right is achieved in the coming months. But it is a matter of real ministries and I appeal, it is simply an appeal and a request, to consider this problem at the level of these ministries and to make a fair one, to say, a decision, and also the most favourable one, which is present at some point and to avoid unnecessary lawsuits in front of courts and cost-exposures, first of all, users of military pensions and all others in this system that we are in. I believe this question of mine will be seriously considered, in some ways a solution is made in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12458	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12459	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will ask a question that, in my opinion, is a matter of national security. The question is that for a long time in Serbia we have different information on the safety of the milk our children drink and consume, and the Republic government is not advertising whether it is safe or not. We are witnessing that more than 35 milk on the Serbian market, 29 are with the data that they are invalid. Aflatoxin is a highly toxic substance for the liver, due to which the malignant process is formed on the liver and which is an incurable condition. Does this republican government have no information or this republican government on purpose, not wanting to withdraw milk from Serbia's shelves, concealing information, thus jeopardising the security of Serbian citizens just to protect some producers' profits? This is a very important issue, this is not a matter of political parties and outwitting, this is a national, security issue. As a MP, I request on my personal behalf, as a professor of the university, on behalf of the DS Parliament Club, that it be clearly told to the citizens – is aflatoxin in permitted concentrations in Serbia's milk? Do our babies, do our children drink rotten milk, poison milk, or is it some kind of fraud? The Republic Government, no minister has ever, Mr Selakovic, even though you are looking towards your MP club, look at me, has turned away. You of the Ministry are not in charge of this, you are in charge of something else, but appeal to your colleagues to do the work for which they have been paid on behalf of the people of this country. What is a question for the Minister of Agriculture, because this aflatoxin does not occur if cows are sick, if milk is infected, aflatoxin is produced by infected corn. What did the Minister of Agriculture do to prevent imports, to prevent the placement of infected corn on Serbia's territory? It is not only possible to infect milk with aflatoxin due to infected corn, it is possible to infect some other life-forms. Are we rabbits, are we guinea pigs, just to talk about you being the ideal government, and subject to the risk of our children getting permanent consequences for life and, at one point, someone from the Republic Government said, "I'm sorry, we didn't know"? Excuse me, gentlemen of the Republic Government, you were warned last week by Mr. Janko Veselinovic that there is a risk of aflatoxin in milk. And this time we ask the same question from the DS Parliament Club, and you have to go out and tell the citizens of Serbia whether there is a risk or not? The data that 29 types of milk of 35 on the Serbian market is with increased levels of aflatoxin, which is above 0.05% per kilogram is disturbing and dangerous to health. With colleagues from the Health and Family Committee, after the start of this session, I will hold consultations and schedule a session of the Health and Family Committee, where we will also invite the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health to make clear, at the highest control level - the control role of this assembly must be used, to hear the truth from the Minister of Health and Minister of Agriculture, as well as from the Republic Government, is there a risk for our children who drink, who consume this milk? This is what I'm gonna end up with. This is not a topic of breaking up political parties, this is a struggle for our children's lives and this is a struggle for our people's national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12460	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12461	Dear Chairman, I will ask two MPs questions. Banished and displaced persons, especially from the Republic of Croatia, in the legal, political, economic and any other sense, are in the most difficult situation in their history. The situation has particularly deteriorated by the economic crisis. They have been derailed to the lowest limits of disenfranchisement in human history, and countries, or countries from which they have been expelled, therefore, from these countries. This is particularly true of those expelled from the Republic of Croatia. According to some estimates, historians are more disfigured than during the NDH. However, there are a number of exiled and displaced persons from Croatia, this time exiled students and teachers, I am asking a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly Minister Dinkic. Since one part of the exiled teachers from Croatia, organised by the Red Cross of Serbia, the Ministry of Education of Serbia and the former Bureau of the Krajina led exiled students from Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srem, in our friendly Greece, along with their teachers from the Republic of Serbia in 1996-1997, and their work experience is not recognised financially, although their colleagues from the home state do not have the problem. It's about working hours from six months to a year. I ask a parliamentary question – when and in what time will the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance solve this problem because it is burning. The second parliamentary question, Jugobanka Split, believe it or not, brought back old foreign exchange savings to Croatians, however, to the citizens of Serbian nationality, and did not do so to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia until today. It is a Yugoslav Split that has nothing to do with South Bank of Belgrade. I ask a parliamentary question to Mr Dinkic – will he, during his meeting with his colleague, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, ask this question on the agenda? Thank you so much for giving me a chance to ask these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12462	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence and Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration, to attend the sittings of Mr Svetko Kovac, Director of the VBA and Brigadier General Dragan Vladisavljevic, Director of the VOA. We continue with the work and move on to the search in detail on the 4th item of the agenda – the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the Military Security Agency and the Military Information Agency you have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Olga Batić, Dr Nenad Popović, Jovan Palalić, Borisav Kovačević, Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic, as well as the Committee for the Control of the Security Service and the Protector of Citizens. You have received reports from the Security Control Committee and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Security Control Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Kovacevic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The people of Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted together to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12463	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, first of all, let me say that this law and the bill of amendments are a step forward in relation to the previous solution. Of course, there are many elements. In 2009, the United States of The DSS voted against this law, but once again, this solution now proposed is due to the Constitutional Court's decision. It's very spotless. We thank the promoter for this reaction that has led the agencies to carry out their duties in a manner prescribed by law. I would quote the proposed amendment: "VBA and VOA are obliged to refuse to carry out illegal orders, i.e. a warrant assumed by the execution of a criminal act". When it comes to this amendment, it should be said that in Article 42. The Law on Voa and VBA regulates the issue of duties and obligations of members of VBA and VOA. That Article states, inter alia, that a member of the VBA, or the VOA, shall be quoted if he considers that he is the order of the Director of the VBA or of the Director of the VOA or of the alleged illegality, he is obliged to warn him in writing. If the superior continues to insist on his execution, he is required to request written confirmation of the warrant. If the warrant is confirmed, it is required to carry out higher superiors and internal controls. This formulation is not enough, in our opinion, clear and not in line with the formulation contained in the Military Law, which regulates the obligations of members of the Serbian Army in Article 13. That is why we have tried to use this amendment in this article, because Article 42 is not the subject of these amendments and the addition of the Law on VBA and VOA, we point out the importance of this issue and show the need to make clear the duty and obligation of all members of the VBA and VOA, but also to protect the integrity of all members of the agency, people who honorably carry out their jobs, against theoretically possible abuses. Of course, this just shows that we need a new law on VBA and Voa, probably about BIA. We heard last time from the Secretary-General that he will probably be proposed until the end of this year. We believe that this is an extraordinary possibility that in a broad discussion, not only within the framework of security structures, and above all in Parliament and with experts dealing with this matter in our country, it is also possible to use the experience of those who have already done so in Europe and in the world, perhaps in the region, to take advantage of all the positive experiences, and also to analyse everything that could be acceptable to our security community. Of course, one of the perhaps most important, and it refers to this amendment, is this parliamentary security control. For the first time in this assembly of parliament, we have a Security Control Committee. And again, for a short time, this committee has managed to do a lot of work. He has established excellent relations with all security agencies and this potential and should be used in order to use all positive desires, intentions, experiences, analysis of the work of others to get what is needed for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and this is the new law on security agencies. In doing so, the role of parliament is crucial, as parliament does not only have the role of the control body, it is a secondary role. The first one is creative in creating a new law, in formulating those provisions that would be necessary to strengthen parliamentary control of the security services. Above all, it should be said that better control of the security services in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would be achieved, stronger administrative support is needed, both the Security Service Control Committee and the entire parliament, and this must be subject to a new law. One of the topics that must find its place in this law, once again, I say, for every praise it will come by the end of this year, is the question of transparency in the financing of security agencies. I'll repeat what I said last time. We have a strange system. When we look at the budget of the Republic of Serbia, practically all the positions that exist in the budget of the security agencies are transparent for all citizens and for all foreign intelligence services. There is no one in Europe, only one country plus Canada, has a more transparent way of funding security agencies than we do. This is absolutely not the principle anywhere in Europe, and it is not the principle anywhere in the world, and therefore we will argue that the way security agencies are financed in the Republic of Serbia's budget is shown through one digit, and that it is even more transparent than it is for those who need to control it today, and that is primarily the Resident Committee for Security Control. Highly trained experts in finance and security could see practically the entire system of operations, the number of members, the structure of senior and other officers, the structure of technology, the structure of investments in new technologies etc. through this transparency of security agencies' budgets. And once again, we need to behave the way 90% of the countries in the world behave, to close the approach that exists today, transparent, to those who don't need it, and to fully open it to those who control the work of the security service. When we talk about funding, the future law also needs to think about new funding for security services so that security services can move forward with new technologies. We've seen what's been going on for the last 20 years. 20 years ago, rarely where we could come across a college, and today practically top IT technology is developing at such a pace that the most modern mobile phones last year are already coming out of production and coming up with new and new series, not to mention some other communication systems, much more subtle. Today, the way to control communications, in particular telecommunications, is one of the top technological challenges not only for our security services. That's the number one problem with all the services in the world. I think the disproportionate investments invested in the technological and technical empowerment of security agencies are even countries that are less than us in the environment, but are richer. So I say once again that it is very important to improve, increase and properly direct the financing system, above all in the field of state-of-the-art technologies. The new law should help security services achieve all the tasks they have, but where other intelligence, security and counter-intelligence agencies are moving in Europe, in the world, in America, in Russia, in China, they have been directed to economic security for the last 10 years. One of the most important segments in economic security is energy security. I'm sure the intelligence services of other countries and counterintelligence primarily protect the economy of their countries as one of the basic security elements. Protecting your economy in each segment is a priority. We must use these positive experiences to do so, protecting the interests of our economy and our economy. Given what's going to happen for the next 20-30 years in our region and everywhere in the world when energy becomes one of the basic elements of security and influence, and we see that for the last events in the world, I think the issue of economic energy security will have the greatest meaning. I am sure that in our security agencies and the VOA, one of the basic segments should be that element of economic and energy security within it. It has been said in the media these days that agencies are united, and probably this debate has made it possible, not bad to talk about it, everyone has an opinion on it. Someone would like to unite both military agencies, someone is against and therefore the law that will be proposed by the end of the year should allow a broad debate but, above all, those people who know the matter, security experts and parliament. What we said last time I'll do it again today. One of the elements that may need to be considered in the new law, is specifically related to future changes that will exist, is the role of a new agency that would serve as a provider of technical and technological elements for what every security agency and police today have special. That's the key question. I'll go back to funding. We're a poor country, and if every security agency has its own budget that's not big, it might be more logical to use the potential and have one national provider through which all three agencies and police could use its technical services in the future. In this way, the role of parliamentary security control would in some way be stronger in a particular segment and would allow constant and continuous access to all documents. Once again, it is extremely positive that we have a Security Control Committee in Parliament for the first time. Amendments and additions to the law are positive and step forward. I would add in the end that co-operation with independent state institutions and DRI as well as with other two independent state institutions is of paramount importance. The Committee in the Assembly held a joint session with them, set goals and joint tasks. I'm sure, and that's what you can see, that security agencies have good co-operation, too. There are criticisms, but there are positive ones. In the process it's normal and it's always like that. Positive things need to be further improved, and those who are worse should be corrected, as well as in every segment of the work of the state administration. Out of the highest possible interest for the Republic of Serbia is this initiative we heard last time from the Secretary-General that a new set of laws will be proposed by the end of the year that would allow the most modern work of VOA and VBA and BIA. On the other hand, the best possible but within those limits as they work for all other countries of the world and as transparent as possible for all people, but most transparently possible for those who control it, for the Committee of Resolution and for Parliament. We expect with a great desire to pass this law by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12464	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the VBA and the VOA, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, just in a few lines to remind us of what was said during the principle debate and what happened in the meantime. It was possible to submit amendments to those members who were changing, not to others. Please don't take discussion as a fact something that's a promise of thought. It should not be taken into account at all that something has been said that something will be done and done before parliament by the end of the year and will be great. That's what I'm talking about. At this point, it was a pleasure to find it in principle, and this will certainly happen again and again in the debate in particular, with these amendments to the law with the amendments adopted, it was a pleasure to announce it, regardless of who currently belongs to the position and who belongs to the opposition, the requirement is fulfilled, or what the Constitutional Court of Serbia has observed, and at the same time puts an understanding of something that is not legal matter, but a question of technology. It's the only reason I want to remind you once again that these changes... (President: Please, Mr. Markovic, return to the topic. ) So we will certainly improve this matter, eliminate the problems VBA and VOA have, but that is no reason not to conclude again. The issues of technology will certainly be faster than legal solutions. In the principle debate, I made a joke with Mr. Kovac on a case that was... (President: Mr Markovic, have a debate in principle and please return to the amendment. Do not discuss what we have been through, but return to the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. Here you go. I don't think this is gonna be a constructive debate. Be kind and continue your session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12466	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borisav Kovacevic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Mr. Directors, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, this member best confirms what I am in the debate in principle and said that this law lacks a text that will clarify some basic terms and concepts in this area. It's one of those concepts here, and that's a secret collaboration. How the law, in general the applicable law, and in particular this amendment and addition proposal, does not give opportunity and there is nowhere nearer defined secret co-operation, except in the amendment bill in Article 8a. It's been treated. I had to refer to Article 8 of this basic Law in paragraphs 1 and 2, because only there, although not entirely and indirectly, can see and explain what secret co-operation is, at least through the fact that voluntary consent is required and that it is mandatory to sign its willingness and willingness to collect data through it. That is why I have added this member who has read – the VBA can collect data from the persons with whom the secret co-operation has been established. I added from Articles 8, 1 and 2, which just formulates what I said. I know it's incomplete, too. On the other hand, this article is not entirely formulated well, because if you say that the VBA can only collect data from people who are in collaboration, then the one in Article 8, because I'm told in an explanation that it only refers to data collection. I know that the concept of secret co-operation is broader than just data collection, but I think this shows that the law is inconclusive and that it really needs to be accessed by its complete and complex addition and change. The government said theirs, and I said mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12468	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12469	I will not read the amendment that we have submitted to the law, so that it does not retain MPs, and all MPs have received the same and probably read it. I'm just going to give a shorter explanation for why we submitted that amendment. The PUPS Group has tabled this amendment proposing the addition of another position in Article 4. The bill, with the aim of people working in the institutions and organisations mentioned, as well as all members of the Serbian Army, working on their duties, and the knowledge or information of the possible activity of members of internal or international terrorism, you report to the VBA. In this way, more people are involved in the work to prevent terrorist organisations and individuals from working in order to prevent terrorism, and constitutional provision is realized that everyone has the right to participate in the defence of the country. The PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the draft amending and supplementing law on VBA and VoA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12470	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I will read the attitude that makes me think I should support this amendment. "If, in the performance of day-to-day tasks, executives employed in state bodies, organisations and services, the authorities of autonomous provinces, local self-government units, public authorities, legal persons and members of the Serbian Army, data and knowledge from the work of the VBA are required to report on this, especially in cases of internal and international terrorism." So that's attitude 4, which is suggested to be added. When we have in Article 2. Proposal for this law, item 2 or item 3 ): "In the context of counterintelligence protection of the VBA reveals, investigates and collects evidence of crimes against constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law", and now, in particular, this is important, "criminal acts of organised crime, crime of money laundering, as well as criminal acts of corruption, abuse of official office, trade in influence, receive and bribery, although they are not the result of the organised criminal group within the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army". So the VBA is doing what's in point 3, which is good, but there's a problem. If we adopt this amendment, the problem will be reduced. It is no secret that in this country every state and military secret has become public, and all public procurement and all local and other crimes have become secret. So for this reason, I would suggest that this amendment be accepted, that those employed in local self-government, autonomous province, cities, etc. they have an obligation to notify the police or the municipal public prosecutor when they come across these acts, not only by the Criminal Code. It's not a secret, it's a public secret, that many local authorities and many who have committed corruption abuses, for abuse of official office, are often, especially in the last eight years, in very certain relationships, and also in dealings with law enforcement in the territory where these crimes are committed. Employees working in those bodies do not have the obligation to report this to the VBA. Therefore, they are obliged to report it only to the authorities under the Criminal Code, which can very easily be heard, dealt and in the division of prey with local authorities, as many investigations have shown. So this is about trade in influence. What if such a provision and such an amendment had been in force so far? The employees of the city administrations, local self-governments and the province would be obliged when they come across something like this, to inform the VBA, not that if she went there, it would be just a military coup. So, employees when they come across this data, they're not burned to notify a little more organs, since we don't have a country in this country, at least for now, that we're trying to make it. That's why I suggest we adopt this. The big question is, this morning we encountered the arrest of a dozen people, the big question is that someone was obliged to report this kind of corruption and crime on the territory of the city of Novi Sad, would such abuse of position, would such crime, such corruption happen? What happened in Katja and what was the subject of the arrest this morning, it happened in India. Our people say and there is a saying, better to prevent than to heal. It is not burning that more bodies know what is going on, especially in local self-government, cities and provinces that are not subject to the attention of the VBA, and if those who are employed in those bodies are obliged to report irregularities to this agency, it would not be burned. We are witnesses that the local authorities have been growing richer in the last ten years, that the people have been growing poorer and that all the law enforcement authorities have done so if they haven't helped to protect the property, that is to say, preventing negative influences in public procurement. The large sums of money have been estranged, in the privatisations especially. So more than two-thirds of the corruption and crime committed by politicians, I think it was done inside. What happened in Katya happened in India. That's two different parts. Apparently, no matter what he's been reported to the authorities, I'm a witness that he's been reported, nothing on this matter has been done, because as the authorities say, if they haven't done anything, then at least they've built themselves into this crime that's happening to us in local self-government. So far, we've broken up Major, Black and Bruce. So to confirm that the fight against corruption is not yet complete. So I think this amendment would help to improve this fight against corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12472	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12473	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, dear fellow officers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we find this amendment very important and very interesting. Legally possible, according to at least our experts, that at certain times the pace to apply work measures and procedures is to reach optimal solutions. I will give a school example, General Vladisavljevic is probably a known example of Kikasha. In the early 1990s, we came up with data that mattered, that a plane of about 35 tons of ammunition and weapons would be delivered to the Croats. This is no longer a military secret, this is public now. We were then, or our service then made a decision not to respect, although in this law we were not, this has also led us to decide and propose, or we have landed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, in the airports where we used eight aircraft. The eighth plane was "Kikas" with guns, and before that they were planes because we didn't have 100% of the exact data, because we couldn't follow the complete methodology. That's why we're willing to use a shortened procedure at certain times. Then you don't go methodologically, you go with measures and procedures that will give rapid results. In the modern world, this amendment is very important especially now that in the airspace, in the complete atmosphere. There's a huge number of drones in the airless space, drones, drones and all kinds of things. We never know when a person can perform a fact or expose the fact to certain infrastructure facilities and do great harm to the state. This amendment provides and provides security for those who make such decisions that no action will be taken against him, and that they will, I say that people who do this work are both professional and staff and qualified and elected. There is a subordination in the military organization, always subject to the assumed duty to perform it in good time on the measures taken. What do we put the judges in some larger position than these people when they're doing a equally difficult task? I don't want to measure it, but they're both extremely heavy. Why don't we make these people all responsible because they're here, and there's not a bit of democracy or human rights to do that. A well-organized state must protect itself well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12474	The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12475	Ladies and gentlemen, I found this amendment interesting and interesting in view of the fact that I was also a member of the assembly between 2000 and 2003 when the Deputy Prime Minister was arrested with dollars with one foreign diplomat in the name of the alleged, where it was obvious that this was about spying. I believe it's been so long in the last ten years that we didn't need any foreign spies. I think some of our responsibilities under the allegations of state officials were taking what was interesting to someone outside. I don't believe in knots, I don't believe in that movie, but I believe that we are the object of worshiping various foreign services, and that the morals of our citizens, especially politicians and officials, are very low. I think that this amendment makes sense because it prevents, for example, the former Deputy Prime Minister from leaving and meeting without being used in criminal proceedings. This amendment may in some way prevent the consequences that one official or anyone irresponsible, who has no relationship with his country, who doesn't even know what the state is, who only cares about greens or banknotes in a foreign currency of some other color, who only cares about putting something in his pocket, and who brings it out of this country. I think this amendment can prevent some of that kind of action, to try to reduce as much as possible for foreign agents and foreign services to get to our data very easily. That, in the case of such species, measures can be applied which are the fastest and most effective result, because if any subsequent proceedings occur, there is no difference. I see this is funny to the former secretary of defense. I believe this amendment makes sense regardless of that entrenched smile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12476	Please don't call the MPs. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12477	Unlike my colleague, Mr. Sutanovac, whose debate is clear to the end, and the laws and amendments, I am one of the MPs who doesn't understand this subject too much. Namely, VBA and VOA are a subject I haven't really dealt with. Like any MP, I get into a situation where I deal with some questions that I've never known before. I don't quite understand what it's about so far, which is the fact that Novi Sad will go bankrupt in the coming days because of some of the actions that have been taken in the previous period, some of the contracts that have been concluded. It is not clear to me whether or not this amendment refers to the fact that we have had a situation in recent days that due to the good co-operation of all security services, I suppose VBA and VOA, in time caught by those who wanted to crash the government plane, but I would like to know and get an answer, and I do not know whether this amendment contributes to the future of these services informing the competent bodies, first of all I am thinking about the most legislative body, these facts and perhaps the closed session. We don't know what these threats are all about until the end. If they continue to fly those planes, why don't the state authorities take measures to protect top state officials, why leave them at personal risk. I don't think they're just private persons, they're government representatives. We are witnesses that the local authorities have been growing richer in the last ten years, that the people have been growing poorer and that all the law enforcement authorities have done so if they haven't helped to protect the property, that is to say, preventing negative influences in public procurement. The large sums of money have been estranged, in the privatisations especially. So more than two-thirds of the corruption and crime committed by politicians, I think it was done inside. What happened in Katya happened in India. That's two different parts. Apparently, no matter what he's been reported to the authorities, I'm a witness that he's been reported, nothing on this matter has been done, because as the authorities say, if they haven't done anything, then at least they've built themselves into this crime that's happening to us in local self-government. So far, we've broken up Major, Black and Bruce. So to confirm that the fight against corruption is not yet complete. So I think this amendment would help to improve this fight against corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12478	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12479	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, dear fellow officers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we find this amendment very important and very interesting. Legally possible, according to at least our experts, that at certain times the pace to apply work measures and procedures is to reach optimal solutions. I will give a school example, General Vladisavljevic is probably a known example of Kikasha. In the early 1990s, we came up with data that mattered, that a plane of about 35 tons of ammunition and weapons would be delivered to the Croats. This is no longer a military secret, this is public now. We were then, or our service then made a decision not to respect, although in this law we were not, this has also led us to decide and propose, or we have landed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, in the airports where we used eight aircraft. The eighth plane was "Kikas" with guns, and before that they were planes because we didn't have 100% of the exact data, because we couldn't follow the complete methodology. That's why we're willing to use a shortened procedure at certain times. Then you don't go methodologically, you go with measures and procedures that will give rapid results. In the modern world, this amendment is very important especially now that in the airspace, in the complete atmosphere. There's a huge number of drones in the airless space, drones, drones and all kinds of things. We never know when a person can perform a fact or expose the fact to certain infrastructure facilities and do great harm to the state. This amendment provides and provides security for those who make such decisions that no action will be taken against him, and that they will, I say that people who do this work are both professional and staff and qualified and elected. There is a subordination in the military organization, always subject to the assumed duty to perform it in good time on the measures taken. What do we put the judges in some larger position than these people when they're doing a equally difficult task? I don't want to measure it, but they're both extremely heavy. Why don't we make these people all responsible because they're here, and there's not a bit of democracy or human rights to do that. A well-organized state must protect itself well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12480	The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12481	Ladies and gentlemen, I found this amendment interesting and interesting in view of the fact that I was also a member of the assembly between 2000 and 2003 when the Deputy Prime Minister was arrested with dollars with one foreign diplomat in the name of the alleged, where it was obvious that this was about spying. I believe it's been so long in the last ten years that we didn't need any foreign spies. I think some of our responsibilities under the allegations of state officials were taking what was interesting to someone outside. I don't believe in knots, I don't believe in that movie, but I believe that we are the object of worshiping various foreign services, and that the morals of our citizens, especially politicians and officials, are very low. I think that this amendment makes sense because it prevents, for example, the former Deputy Prime Minister from leaving and meeting without being used in criminal proceedings. This amendment may in some way prevent the consequences that one official or anyone irresponsible, who has no relationship with his country, who doesn't even know what the state is, who only cares about greens or banknotes in a foreign currency of some other color, who only cares about putting something in his pocket, and who brings it out of this country. I think this amendment can prevent some of that kind of action, to try to reduce as much as possible for foreign agents and foreign services to get to our data very easily. That, in the case of such species, measures can be applied which are the fastest and most effective result, because if any subsequent proceedings occur, there is no difference. I see this is funny to the former secretary of defense. I believe this amendment makes sense regardless of that entrenched smile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12482	Please don't call the MPs. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12483	Unlike my colleague, Mr. Sutanovac, whose debate is clear to the end, and the laws and amendments, I am one of the MPs who doesn't understand this subject too much. Namely, VBA and VOA are a subject I haven't really dealt with. Like any MP, I get into a situation where I deal with some questions that I've never known before. I don't quite understand what it's about so far, which is the fact that Novi Sad will go bankrupt in the coming days because of some of the actions that have been taken in the previous period, some of the contracts that have been concluded. It is not clear to me whether or not this amendment refers to the fact that we have had a situation in recent days that due to the good co-operation of all security services, I suppose VBA and VOA, in time caught by those who wanted to crash the government plane, but I would like to know and get an answer, and I do not know whether this amendment contributes to the future of these services informing the competent bodies, first of all I am thinking about the most legislative body, these facts and perhaps the closed session. We don't know what these threats are all about until the end. If they continue to fly those planes, why don't the state authorities take measures to protect top state officials, why leave them at personal risk. I don't think they're just private persons, they're government representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12484	Please, Mr. Veselinović, you have the skills to use this amendment, but I will not allow it, if you continue to do so, but return to the amendment. Please, then it was supposed to be a replica, and if he wanted a replica then it could have been a replica, but the application that we're discussing the amendment, and then doing a kind of replica, I'm not going to let you do that. So back to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12485	The Honorable Chairman, unlike the predecessors who did not use skillfully, but very brutally violated the Rules of Procedure, skillfully speaking about the amendment I ask the competent ministries - why not inform the public of the facts, the latest events, and will this amendment in the future remove such misunderstandings? Is this amendment, if you have read, Mr. Chairman, in this regard, in any way opening up the possibility of being transparent activities and allowing what concerns listening, to being secret in work, to be reduced to a measure that would be limited and that would give greater control over these services? That's why I think it's very important, whether this amendment will create a situation so that such opportunities don't happen anymore, that we don't know if the prime minister is at risk, or if he's not at risk, or if it's just a spin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12486	First, you know that the amendment has not been accepted, so you can't... Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12487	I must say that, despite the fact that this amendment has not been accepted, I am pleased that the explanation of the amendment has come upon positive criticism and something to be considered in the coming period as a possibility which I discussed more closely at the Committee session with Lieutenant Colonel Dragan Arsic. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, many have pointed to the dramatic unconstitutional nature of Article 13 when adopting the 2009 electoral law. A law under which the director of the VOA could order operational surveillance without a court order. It took three years for the Constitutional Court to make such a decision unconstitutional. I look forward to the fact that this time it wasn't about bypassing the Constitution, but it was about to establish judicial control over the surveillance of communications. It is a logical need for new members of 13a and 14a to anticipate both the process of special measures and the precision of their conditions. However, I will repeat what I said on the Committee, the logical fact is that if electronic surveillance is carried out on the basis of a decision by the judge of the High Court, the secret recording, communication and internality of the facility, by the decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation, then why would the data obtained by the court's decision not be used in criminal proceedings? I believe that the use of such a means of proof in criminal proceedings is not against the constitution, which is more constitutional, because the Constitution in its Article 41st paragraph 1 prescribes inviolability to letters and communications. However, the same constitution in the next position, Article 2, stipulates that derogations are only allowed for a specified time and on the basis of the court's decision, if necessary for the conduct of criminal proceedings or for the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia. This bill foresees the same thing, requires a court's decision, demands a certain amount of time, seeks protection, abandons criminal proceedings, of course. I will not say that this law, that this amendment, which is one of the reasons why I have submitted, would significantly facilitate the possibility of proving certain crimes, especially those crimes that are done in subtle and secret. Also, if judicial control is established and conditions are accurately prescribed, then the way in which these data are collected is no different from the way it appears in the ordinary criminal procedure, and in accordance with the rules of the Criminal Procedure Act. The only difference is seen in terms of how to collect these data, as compared to the rules of the Criminal Procedure Act, here is the only exception that such data is collected not on the basis of the public prosecutor's request, but on the basis of the request of the judges. Of course, this amendment, as I said on the Committee this morning, was submitted in spirit and in the course of the fight against corruption and crime and in order to facilitate the fight against corruption and crime. I give my little contribution through this amendment, and in their relief of that struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12488	National MP Borisav Kovacevic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government's reasoning for the refusal of this amendment says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the introduction of the concepts of audio and video recording and the concepts of postal shipments does not contribute to clarity and precision of specific procedures and measures. That's exactly what I did, because in the amended Article 6, that is, in the Bill of Amendments, it was under point 6. – secret recording and documenting of conversations in open and closed space, and I added – secret audio and video recording. I think and I'm convinced, as you can see, that's an explanation. Point 7 said that the covert surveillance contained letters. I said, not letters, but postal shipments. The package, the package, is not a letter, and in it everyone who has ever worked in this area knows what can go through, which can be of cardinal importance for the safety of the country or for the safety of people. I don't understand that this is rejected. As soon as I can. I don't want to talk like a lot of people talk about things we discussed in principle. These are very specific things. I really don't see why this was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12490	National MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 7th amendment together. The government and the Security Control Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12491	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Directors, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this article we have proposed a change in attitude 5 where we have said – when the reasons for urgency require this, and especially in cases of internal and international terrorism, the Director of the VBA may order the application of the special procedure referred to in Article 12. What were we handling? In this way, we believe and are deeply convinced that an empty walk in the service is being bridged until the approval is obtained. In the meantime, what will the service, or director of the VBA, with available information in the event of a threat when a terrorist act occurs from the time of submission to the time of obtaining approval? What if, during this period of waiting for approval from 12 to 24 hours, there was an execution of a terrorist act, and it had information that it could come? Who will be responsible for not taking action on a documenting plan or preventing such a terrorist act from being executed? What if at one half-night, you get information that in the time between three and four on the aircraft of one of the presidents or members of the government an explosive will be placed? The military security agency is not doing anything on the documenting plan, regardless of what can be prevented, but will not be able to do anything against the perpetrators of such a terrorist act. That is why we have proposed that the Director of the VBA, taking all responsibility and submitting the report to the Minister of Defence, begin to apply these measures and continue and after obtaining the approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12492	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that the MP group of pensioners has the most experience. So I believe it's all based on experience, not just theory. However, all the old experts who have had some experience and knowledge are retired quickly, so it is no wonder these amendments are quite quality. I'll dare say anything that bothered this country. Someone in their own interest has put away, or...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12494	Don't, Marianne, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12495	Hold on, I'm explaining the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12496	Switch to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12497	Of course, the amendment says – when the reasons for urgency require this, and in particular in cases of internal and international terrorism, the Director of the VBA may immediately order the application of the special procedure referred to in Article 12(1), paragraph 5, and continue to apply after receiving the decision of the competent court. If you think I'm not reading the laws, I'm reading. Item 5. – Judge from Article 2(2), without delay and within eight hours at the latest, shall decide on the application of the special procedure and the measures referred to in Article 12 of Article 1(5) of this Act and shall be delivered by the VBA. The difference between the proposed solution and the amendment is that it can be acted before a decision by the competent judge is reached, and it can be obtained immediately after eight hours. Eight hours is a very long time, and I have to compare it to some of the past. You know, the Supreme Defence Council bought a satellite that was supposed to give us data only after 24 hours, and we paid it 50 million euros. So, I think that the amendment promoters based it on buying something that we needed about terrorism to provide us with data 24 hours later, which means that it can be done automatically on the outside and on the inside, that the perpetrators can't document it, and neither does the VBA have the authority to do it. The amendment promoter bridged it, he did not say that this would be done without a court order, but that for reasons of urgency it could begin to be done and to continue after the court's decision, because as our judges may not be found in the first hour, in the second hour, you can find it, but he has eight hours and can think nicely over seven hours without the perpetrators being calm and not even being overly disturbed. So, I think the amendment is meaningful, it's based on some experiences, and that's what I'm talking about. By comparing the amendments to something that happened in practice, something that we paid 50 and some million euros, and that didn't do us any good, we didn't even get it, we paid satellite footage with a delayed broadcast of 24 hours, and I guess we wanted to let all the terrorists know that they had 24 hours to get lost from our territory, and I'm afraid, under the bill of this law, they also know that they have eight hours to do some work and to move away, without the possibility of the VBA working properly. I think this country needs to be a little tense, that this has become too decapitated, that it's becoming less and less state strong structures. I think the amendment is meaningful in the voting day, and the motionary has to tell me, I'm going to vote for this amendment anyway, because I served the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12498	Thank you. Article 8 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Security Control Committee. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Security Control Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Kovacevic, the Government and the Security Control Committee adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12499	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our MP group has tabled four amendments to this bill and I can say that they are mostly focused on resolving issues, which, unfortunately, I don't think is the best way to solve the basic text of the law. This is a question of how to balance the need to protect or enable effective implementation and security through the functioning of these services and the protection of human rights? There were many disputes about this when this law was passed at the 2009 National Assembly. Some solutions, as you have seen, have been challenged before the Constitutional Court and, based on the Constitutional Court Decision, we are today discussing amendments and additions to this law. We also talked a lot in the principle debate about a member of this 10th law. A few colleagues talked about it. We were simply thinking about how to get out of a very dangerous problem that could create a member of this 10th law, i.e. Article 15 of the basic text of the law. It concerns the taking of certain actions without the prior consent of the competent court. Of course, there was no question at all that such measures would be taken and that representatives of the Agency would be allowed to do so in cases of internal international terrorism. This thing simply requires this kind of reaction and this kind of consent, because today, more or less, in several discussions we hear about such phenomena and such cases. This is not disputed, but the reasons for urgency is a legal standard that can create enormous problems in its application and possible abuses. What is the reason for urgency and who is it that appreciates the reasons for urgency, and what can all be covered by reasons of urgency? Practically everything. It is one discretionary right that the director of the VBA, who, on the grounds of the urgency of taking action without the authority of the court, can put in different things. I don't mean to say it's always going to happen as an abuse, but I'm not ruling out the possibility that it could be abuse. We don't see that these eight hours, as long as it takes for the court's position, are a problem. We said we'd exclude the situation of internal and international terrorism. We have offered here a solution that we think is transitional, and in order for it to be best in the new text of the law, through a public debate and through the experiences that military agency representatives have, even the part that applies to the reasons of urgency to erase. Because if we want to prevent the possibility of abuse, if we want human rights to be fully protected, that courts have full control over the application of all measures, then it would be good for this situation to fall exclusively into the circumstances of terrorism. We put it here - in case of urgency, when the delay of the temporary measures made it impossible to achieve the goal for which they would be taken. Of course, and that means a certain explanation, but since it is a proposal to amend and supplement the law, this would certainly reduce that possibility or width, as this legal standard is defined in Article 10, but with a tendency to come out of this problem in perspective. It is very important that, if you are already going to remove all doubts in the work of the service, and about the importance of military services we are here and how much we have spoken, especially military services that may have been in public and professional somehow were, let's say, less valued than the BIA itself, I think that because of the seriousness of the threats that they are dealing with, they should get very important. In that sense, all activities and proposals concerning improving their work and financial and material and human resources will always be supported. But for that very reason, if we strengthen in the professional sense of service, we need to disable through legal solutions any possibility of criticism and attack that these services abuse the law, by eliminating from the text of the law everything that can be problematic, and as far as human rights are concerned. In that sense, so is our amendment. We do not understand why he was rejected, but in any case, we believe that through a public discussion that will be about the new text of the law, this topic, a very important topic from the point of view and the functioning of the service, but also human rights will be properly evaluated and considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12500	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borisav Kovacevic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12501	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I have responded by amendment to a 24-hour time-limit judge to deliver a decision to the service, or director, in case the director, as his colleague said, has, under discretion, started to apply special procedures, measures and actions, due to urgency, awaiting the judge's decision. It would not be disputed if it were to remain 24 hours, if this article had not introduced automation very deadly to the work and the results of the security services at all, that is, the security of this country. It is said in the last position – if the competent judge does not approve the application of special procedures and measures within 24 hours, I said 12 hours, the director is required to order the commission to destroy all the data the service has come to. This should never and should never happen, and especially since it is in such a significant situation when the director, as the most competent man, assesses and never takes such measures unless significant cardinal data is expected for safety, to come into a situation to destroy it afterwards, leaving at the same time freedom or the possibility of a Judge being irresponsible because it is said – if it does not deliver a decision within 24 hours or 12 hours. Why are we putting this as a possibility? The judge, who was put in a position to decide this, or the court responsible, must be fully mobile. There's got to be a judge on duty, not 12 hours, in an hour, he's got to make a decision. That's why I wanted, by cutting the deadline from 24 to 12 hours, to make it impossible to obtain more significant and larger data in 24 hours than 12 hours, so if we're destroying data in that case when the judge doesn't approve of what we've collected in 12 hours, it's less damage than 24 hours. It was my basic handling for putting up with this. I apologize to the gentlemen who are handling these two services. I know it's 24 hours, and they and I know it well why, better for the service and more useful for the service itself, but it's not better for the data, by the general intensity of respect for human rights, what we need to follow by entering Europe, it's better to have that deadline as short as possible, uncovered by a judge's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12502	Thank you. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12503	Mr. Chairman, this is the same as in Article 8. I was also here in favour of taking measures immediately after obtaining data and giving greater authority to the Director of the VBA, when there are reasons for urgency, especially in cases of internal and international terrorism. The explanation would be similar. I don't know if I should say it again. There can be some serious consequences here. That's what I explained in Article 8. Again, I ask myself: What if there is a crime in the time in which we wait for approval, and we were able to react and prevent such a crime from being committed? Thank you. I wanted so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12504	National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that I said I would vote for a previous amendment that had already spoken of such situations, would be foolish not to vote for this other one. So, in both cases, it is strictly internal and international terrorism. It's something the VBA finds out, and because of the court's decision, it can't take any action. So, on a certain deadline, he has to postpone all his activities. Since the laws are public, in some ways almost 24 hours, amnesty is granted to potential perpetrators who can stay, plan, do irreparable damage, be dangerous to the health and property of the people and the state and get away safely because a particular judge did not give consent in time for such a decision. For example, this 24-hour deadline doesn't even have to be respected, so that all these activities could then be the subject of destruction, as if they've never been, as if they've never done anything wrong in this country, and we need to know that this country will be the subject of ever greater terrorist acts, which are international, which are internal, and particularly internal terrorist acts. With this in mind, I treat Kosovo as an internal issue of Serbia, unlike some MPs here. So we can be targets and international, especially internal terrorism. I think that this word that stands, that the Director of the VBA can order, that is to say, the amendment - the Director of the VBA can immediately order the application of a special procedure, it does not amneste him from the subsequent receipt of a court ruling on the procedure. I think this state, in this state of affairs, requires one such amendment. Otherwise, due to the proximity of southern Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo and Metohija, given the situation on the ground as it is, I fear that failure to adopt this amendment can result in adverse consequences not for people working in the VBA, but for the population, for the territory, for the constitutional order and for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12506	The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 10 of the Amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure submitted to the Security Control Committee. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Security Control Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12507	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, representatives of military agencies, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, our intervention in this member of the law concerns the situation of extending the measure. In the principle debate, we highlighted a question concerning whether this law, a law defining the work of military agencies, should regulate the question of jurisdiction of courts to deal with situations like this. We heard the answer, through discussion and through submitted amendments or amendments, to make it a place. We felt it would be better to wait, because what Minister Selakovic is announcing is new law in the area of justice where laws concerning court jurisdiction would probably be defined. But when it was done like this, then we felt that by accepting that attitude, we too would intervene with our amendment. It concerns precisely the attempt to protect, protect human rights in a situation where the measures relating to Article 12 of the basic text of the Law from point 5 to point 8 are very serious and concerning the secret electronic surveillance of communications and the information system for the collection of retained information on telecommunications traffic. Secret recording and documenting of open and closed space talks, using technical means. Secret monitoring of the content of written and other means of communication including secret electronic surveillance of the content of communication of information systems and secret surveillance and recording of internal facilities and closed spaces and objects. It is predicted that Article 11 means, in Article 17 of the basic text of the law, that these procedures can be extended by another six months. We believe, of course, there is always the possibility and justification for such a decision to be made, but in this particular situation, analoguely other procedural cases, we felt that this decision should be made by a greater court rather than by the same judge who made or assessed the need for these measures when he first made such a decision. It's about serious measures that can get in the way of important human, constitutional rights and freedoms, and six months is not a small deadline, but I say, understanding the need for representatives of military agencies to assess that these measures should continue, that the judicial council should nevertheless have more complete and accurate data on why these measures should be extended, not the same judge, only one judge, individual, the one who made the decision. We believe that in that case again, it was the intensity of all our amendments, that any possibility would be removed to criticise that this law could serve different abuses or to use such sensitive things as these measures to go beyond the jurisdiction or frameworks for which they are defined. A court council of all its powers with an additional one, as stated in the amendment itself, further clarification by the Director of the VBA why it takes another six months to back the decision made by the Court. We think it's something that would be good, and if you in the light of the amendments, why do you refuse to state that it would affect the organisation of the jurisdiction of the courts, and we think that the very fact that the Supreme Court and the Supreme Casation Court are being introduced in this whole case is an intrusion into it. But if that's what happened, we think this is a better solution than we suggested. However, a higher instance of this one-off inclusion should be decided, and this is in any case more judicially since we have the case-law of the judicial council in a number of other cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12508	Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12509	In the debate under this amendment as well as the amendment that I have submitted to Article 10, I will not particularly enter because it is purely technical amendments and given the fact that I do not want to waste my time on myself or on others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12510	Pursuant to Article 11 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure submitted to the Security Control Committee. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Security Control Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Ombudsman submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the Security Control Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Batić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12511	Thank you. Now I have to speak because the amendment is not technical. I have submitted this amendment, first of all, for reasons that are not prescribed anywhere, which are actually the official persons who can use the authority of Article 9(1), because it is merely stated that this can be done by the VBA. The essence of this amendment, to be brief, is seen in the fact that the Minister of Defence, in his act, prescribes what kind of official persons they are, and everything in the act of systematization and the organisation that these powers can use without special authority, which is based on them. Such an act could also determine the responsibility of the defence minister, for example, certain VBA officers who could, and we had in the past, abuse their powers just under Article 9(1) and base his responsibility on that regulation proposed by this amendment. They reiterate that the objective of this amendment as well as previously submitted is to fight corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12512	Thank you. Pursuant to Article 17 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure submitted to the Security Control Committee. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Security Control Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when we get back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12513	We're going back to work. We move to work on the 5th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF PRIORITY AND SPECIFIC PROCEDURES OF EXPRIATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF DOCUMENTS TO REALIZE THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONTRACTION SYSTEM FOR THE TRANSPORT OF THE SOUTH FUTURE TO THE SOUTH FLOWER Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of the search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda in addition to the representatives of Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, I have called on the sittings to attend: Dejan Popović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Petar Stanojevic, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment and Zoran Ibrović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić, Olgica Batić, Dusan Obradović, Ivan Jovanovic, Vladimir Ilic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić and Biljana Hasanovic Korać. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12514	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honors Madam Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that my amendment refers to this public interest which is determined by this Article of this Law, my opinion is that you did not have to bother at all about this law. Therefore, the law could be passed, proposed only by two members, to regulate that public interest to the first member, and to regulate a special procedure with the other member. With those two members, you would have regulated the whole problem of expropriating land for the South Stream pipeline. So you would save time for those who wrote that law, who explained it, suggested, and you would also save time for us MPs, we wouldn't have to discuss these other provisions of the bill. Why am I saying that? For this reason, this public interest is normally provided for if expropriation is to be done and it is not the point in the very public interest that is needed in order to even discuss expropriation, but rather the problem is expressed in this particular procedure provided for in the draft law. You know, the government could have found that public interest and without a problem, an expropriation of all these parcels that touch the South Stream could be carried out. However, there was obviously an interest in doing so in the public interest and a special procedure, i.e. to provide for the same law. However, the law and the expropriation also stipulates that a special procedure can be applied in cases where some of the most significant disasters occur. Therefore, the Expropriation Act already foresees the need for this public interest and foresees the possibility of a special procedure. When you decided not to go through a government regulation, you obviously thought about this special procedure and thus you effectively levelled the expropriation of gas pipeline land with a elemental accident, because the Expropriation Act provides for a special procedure only in the case of natural disasters, and there is a conflict between declared and reasoned public interest, large investments, great support for economic development, future energy stability because of this pipeline and the essence that this special procedure foresees exactly the damage that the citizens of this country are, and they are the owners of these parcels through which this pipeline is intended to implement. So we have a general public interest story, but we have a particular problem with a special procedure that significantly regulates the human rights of the property owner. I think it could have been much fairer, more rational and more realistic, that you said this way, we're establishing a public interest in building this pipeline, we're establishing a special procedure by expropriating people's properties, which we're going to take over real estate in the middle, and we're not going to respect those basic procedural conditions that are provided by the Expropriation Act, which has no reason not to apply in a specific case when it comes to "South Stream". Unfortunately, whenever the authorities are called on to be of national and public interest, there is always a delay and there must be caution in those who are meant to explain that it is public or national interest. Unfortunately, I would like to point out that the cultural institutions declared by public interest have lost several cultural institutions, which have also had to be included in national interest such as JDP or "Atelje 212". So we at these cultural institutions when we predicted national interest, in some strange way we thought there was no room for these two important theatres. So, what's going on with national interest? Is there really a good criterion when it is determined? Also in determining public interest in the construction of a major infrastructure project such as the pipeline. We can also list a number of parks, national parks, which also received the national prefix, and in the meantime they are devastated, say, Đerdap, Fruska Gora, Char Mountains, Kopalnik and the like. We have these cases of national interest and we have cases of public interest that are beginning to raise certain suspicions. Unfortunately, in the past six or seven months, since this power has been current, we have witnessed that ad hoc laws are passed, that one-time laws are passed, or for one-time use. I'd just like to remind you that this may refer to amendments to the NBS Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12515	Go back to the subject, Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12516	Of course, it's about laws that can be characterized as single-use laws. The same can be said of this law, as well as the Law on Amnesty, the Law on the Budgetary System. So these are the laws that have the ambition to regulate a particular problem for single use in the interests of certain circles, someone who can easily put that public interest first and become a priority in relation to all other interests that follow and this legal work that is on the agenda today in terms of expropriation. So, when you point out this public interest, when you provide for the procedure in such a way that you do not call an participant, that is, you do not provide for a statement on an expropriation proposal, when you do not provide for hearing participants in this process, when you do not foresee the obligation of the lawfulness of the expropriation solution, when you do not provide for the surrender of possessions as one act, after the procedure has been conducted in whole and final, in which case you, in fact, demonstrate through this law that you have certain plans in terms of favouring one foreign hub of interest and the rights of the other party. So I said it would be much fairer if you had written only two members in this law, one that referred to the definition of public interest given in a very general form, and the other that would refer to the participant, i.e. the owner of the immovable property, whose immovableities will be expunged, simply do not have the right to all those laws and the Constitution of guaranteed protection, which is very necessary when it comes to taking away both property and state property. So when we submitted these amendments, first of all we had in mind but you were able to regulate the problem of expropriation of land through which the South Stream pipeline would pass. You didn't need to determine a special procedure, because the special procedure is indeed some "lex specialis" in relation to those procedures provided for by the Expropriation Act. I've already told you that a special procedure is only scheduled for the event of an elemental accident. I guess you didn't have that association on this job of building a South Stream pipeline, in terms of a natural disaster, because otherwise it would be really pointless to talk about the public interest at all, because each other is shutting down, because the elemental accident is something harmful. I suppose you had in mind that you were taking care of the interests of the citizens. However, however, the results will be such that we will seriously wonder whether in the future we can count on this kind of public interest and special procedures, only for this reason to meet the needs of a company that is predominantly owned by a foreign state company.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12517	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12518	Thank you very much. Dear Members, you've said a lot in these few minutes. I have to admit that most of it doesn't exactly have anything to do with the amendment, but it's no problem, I'll try to answer you. So, this law, I'm going to repeat something I said a few days ago, when we talked about this law, is not pretending to meet the demands of a company, as you say, this law is being made to carry out land expropriation, through which the South Stream pipeline is to pass, the value of the investment of 1.7 billion euros. If you think that investment is not necessary for Serbia and that expropriation can wait seven to 10 years, under the existing Expropriation Act, then I would like you to explain it to the citizens of Serbia. Secondly, when you say it's a single-use law, I don't know exactly what that term "single use" means, but if we're making two pipelines, and we're not making one, then I agree, this law is really just for the South Stream pipeline, which passes through Serbia and passes through a number of other countries and Serbia should provide energy stability, if nothing else, to increase that energy stability when we talk about gas economy. When you say two things that I quote - that this law is to the detriment of those who own land, first of all, I don't know on what basis you've found that this is to the detriment of those who own land and what are the criteria, the data that you have, with which the government, the state and the ministry don't have, will be at risk? On the contrary, we have made it very clear that it will be determined, that the tax administration will give exactly how much compensation it will be, that, of course, the municipalities will be able to implement it, etc., that I am not spreading the story now. So, I don't know what made you think that? You also said that this law is there and it's made in the interest of certain circles, so I would ask you, since I'm sure you'll be replicating, to explain to me what circles in which this bill is made of interest, and I have clearly explained the sole purpose, because this is technical law, although the debate is much more about all other things than the law itself, why are we doing it? When you say, among other things, that there will be no hearing of participants, etc., we have several times explained how much time it would take and how much time it would take to waste when we talk about preparing and creating conditions for this "South Stream" to pass through Serbia one moment. If you're talking about public and special interest, we wanted it to be a public interest. On the contrary, we never evened it out with what you're saying, accidents, earthquakes, etc., because in that case the administrative procedure was shortened and that reduced special interest you were talking about. So, absolutely, your amendment really doesn't correspond to what the very purpose of the law is and that's why it's been rejected. Now, I would ask you, if that's not the problem, to explain to me whose damage this law is, and how do you know it's harmful and how did you assess it? Two, in the interest of which circles is this law being made, because then maybe we didn't see well, so let's see what the matter is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12519	Thank you. The word is Judith Popovic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12520	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Your Honor, Madam Minister, this is primarily about the public interest and the special procedure. So, the interest we have absorbed, is that so, and you are expected to have a special procedure, let's say, in the Expropriation Act in case of elementary accidents. So, this is about a procedure that excludes a regular procedure, which is foreseen by law, and that regular procedure is precisely used to protect the interests of the weaker parties, which is always the participant, the citizen, the one who owns the property, and not the one whose benefit is the expropriation, and not the state that actually initiates the expropriation. We have to make a difference, I was talking about it. I was talking about the fact that this case really doesn't require a special procedure. Why is a special procedure needed? It's simple, some discrepancy, a lack of administration, a lack of judgment, you can't interpret the damage of a real estate owner. Do something to boost functionality and efficiency and administration and courts, not to delay expropriation for a few years. It's simple, it's a very simple thing. When I talked about it, about the interests of some circles, and how I thought that in the way that this expropriation is actually predicted, we have reasonable doubts that this will be done in the interest of those who represent users of expropriation, and to the harm of those who will invest their properties in these expropriations. (President: Time. You know how, I'll use that time of authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12521	You've got a replica, so you can't use the time of an authorised representative. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12522	I'll be very brief. Therefore, the special procedure, under the Expropriation Act, is envisaged for temporary land takeover. Yeah, we wanted it to be a public interest and we even explained it. So here I repeat once again, it is not the law that works in the interests of anyone, but rather the states of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia for the basic reason to increase energy stability, the gas energy stability of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12523	Thank you. Mrs Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12524	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, so I would just add that we do not have a problem with Serbia being needed to enable every type of investment, we have no problem with building a "South Stream". So that's not the problem. The problem with this law is that it is not defined until the end, firstly, of public interest, and secondly, it is not defined until the end why it was actually going to this special procedure. So, the bottom line is I'm thinking of a shortened procedure. It's actually a problem with this law. For absolutely no reason, you are instituting a procedure that makes it very difficult to position one whose real estate is subject to expropriation. So that's the point when we're talking about expropriation in this case. There's something else I need to tell you. Normally there will also be those who will and will be used for expropriation in favour of the South Stream. However, it is a simple case so in Serbia. You always have one minority who will find an opportunity, through best man's, cousin's, political ties, to favor some of his interests, and all at the expense of those great majority who will have and how the problem of realising their interests in terms of expropriation compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12525	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12526	Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that this debate is won at a pace in some way and fiercely. I just think it's a very important topic. I am sure, Minister, that Mrs Popovic very convincingly explained to you why we consider it to be here to protect a kind of special interest rather than public interest. I don't understand, though, why are you angry when someone says this is about special interest? It doesn't have to be anything ugly in itself. Interests are in the main special. Even when you're talking about the public interest, the interest of the Serbian state, the citizens of Serbia, it's kind of expensive, right, personal, special interests? We live in a country that must have come out of real socialism a long time ago. It moves towards capitalism and private interests are not in themselves anything ugly or vulgar or unacceptable. We're just trying to get them to call themselves a real name. By declaring something of public interest, then suspending a significant part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, suspending some of the key constitutional guarantees, including property rights, but also some other principles, principles and not only principles and principles, but certain provisions that are executive provisions, which must be practically implemented directly and then accusing us of being against the project "South Stream". This law is not a technical law. Technically, they are laws that regulate, for example, or that would regulate the diameter of the pipes in the South Stream project. This isn't technical law. This is a law that enters, as I have already said, into property rights and a whole series of other rights guaranteed by the legal order of this country. To show you even more convincingly why our anxiety is deeper than hope and why we don't believe when your government in this way declares public interest, as some governments have done before you, first, your key argument is that you won't be able to finish the job in time. Well, citizens can't be held accountable because five years since this agreement was signed, no one in this country has seriously worked on the project. Don't tell me this has nothing to do with you and your party. You're in the same government and you're responsible for everything that happened in the meantime. But let's go back to this particular example of how public interest is being destroyed in this country and how everyone is playing it lightly. On 22 January, Minister, in this House, I asked you, or your ministry, at the same time the Ministry of Mining, to explain to you and Minister Bačević whether the price of import gas for Serbia was too high, optimal or too low, since you gave each other opposing statements. I haven't received your answer yet. I hope I can get that today, like this orally, on the record, as you might say. However, I received Mr. Bacevic's reply this morning. To understand what kind of country you are in, and what government you are in, I will first tell you what Minister Bačević signed. Here, there's a seal here, before that and a memo from the Ministry. It says: "When it comes to purchase prices", these are gas prices, this great agreement, the brother state of Russia, the company "Gasprom", it helps us, when we make the "South Stream" under these conditions, will be even more than 100 times better, "when it comes to purchase prices, representative data are not publicly available", it is the Ministry of Mining in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, "but the unofficial data available to us", so there are ministries here that match the unofficial data, "show that the purchase prices of gas for 1000 cubic metres in 2012 were in US dollars: Republic of Serbia – 457, Greece – 477, Slovenia – 486, Bulgaria – 501, the Czech Republic – 503, Bosnia and Herzegovina – 515, Poland 526 etc., average for the Balkans 490, and in this sense the price of gas for us 7% of the Balkans, but the average region for the Balkans". On the other hand, for some reason Minister Bacevic believes that the Czech Republic and Poland are Balkan countries, I would not go into it at this time, but this statement with the signature and stamp of the minister seems to be contrary to your statement. Let me tell you right now that I think you're right, I'm just wondering how your government, your ministry, some other ministries are even pleading that what they call public interest is truly perceived as a public interest if at the same time you have such huge disagreements over such a matter? Don't try to fascinate Serbian citizens with these explanations about the 1.7 billion investment, because what we're talking about and what you so drastically disagree on is a job that's only worth over a billion dollars a year. Seven percent is $70 million. Why do we still not believe that such a country with such a administration, with such political leadership or professional political leadership in certain resolutions, is not in a position to even seriously implement such a bill and protect public interest? Because we actually live in a country where it's being announced today. I'm not getting into the core of that case at all. The prosecution will decide, in the end, that 300 hectares of the country are worth 300m euros. At the same time, there is a big job of the century, where the country's hectare will be sold for several hundred euros or several thousand euros. How much money will these people whose immovableities are being taken end up going into somebody else's property because of this? Are you going to apply that price of a million dollars per hectare of Vojvodina land or are you going to apply some other price? You're an economist? Right? Well, you know that this is the only country in the world where there's a category of market price determined by the tax administration. No, it's an administrative price when it determines the tax administration. The market price is when there's an offer and demand on the market somewhere, so when they cut at one level, it's a market price. There's no such thing here. You suspend the market, share jurisdiction between yourselves, local self-government, etc. for a project this big, and then you say that we have to believe that no one will eventually be damaged. The credibility of institutions, the system of institutions, is lacking in this country. You can't say every time -- we haven't had time, let us suspend the Constitution and the law to finish the South Stream, so that our poor people have something to warm up from, because that's not true. The problem we now have with transport, the minister, is also due to some kind of political insecureness, not yours, some before you, not past water, but some that led this country 20, 30 or 40 years ago. Is there a problem with Hungary about the transport? We do. It's also the result of an interstate agreement that ended up being bad for our side. We have a loss in a network that you also know and that we're paying for, it's the same as some contract, some system where we pay gas in that amount that's on the border of not our country, but some other countries. All ministers before you who came before this Parliament or before the public and before the citizens also assured us that they were doing everything in the public interest and that the public interest would be protected. That's what you're doing today. We are trying to prove to you that you are doing this in a way that will cause serious damage to both the country and those involved in this project. At one point, you seemed to have told me – we even offered an explanation, for the public interest in the law. I don't blame you for finding this situation, but you're right. Here is the situation where someone offers an explanation for such an exception, and then logically you say – even. Anyway, it's been so far without even any explanation. But your argument in this law is extremely formal, extremely technically, if you will, and it does not provide answers to those questions that we have been insisting on for years and many of them are, therefore, asking for an answer in some of the earlier stages of your professional political, whatever you want, career. I think that in the meantime it was clear that we were right when we tried to protect the public interest in some previous situations and therefore this kind of credibility that we have today to put forward. Otherwise, such a definition of public interest is absolutely something that goes in favour of the entire state and all seven million inhabitants are simply logical and unsustainable, so I ask you not to insist so much on it. That's the case you've got in a thousand places. When I'm talking about this price or I don't know about a country that kind of subsidizes that price that's lower than the one that would be marketable, and even then we can't even talk about public interest. I repeat for the hundredth time, there are different mutual interests in every society, even in this. When you give help or give a lower price and pay it from the budget or in some way from public sources for millions of gas users, you protect their interest, you jeopardized the interest of those six million other citizens of Serbia. It's legitimate that you're making a political decision to reward someone, to take someone from someone. It's all right. Just say it like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12527	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12528	I always like to hear your arguments and discuss with you even though it takes a lot of people some time, but I think as you've just said some things, I need to explain to you whether something is or isn't. When you said nothing's been done for years, what we've been waiting for, and what we're going to do, that's why we're passing this law and we can't do all this time. What's been going on for years and you and I know, but I also have to say this bill couldn't have been done before until there was a plan document, we now have a plan document. The second thing, when you talk about determining public interest to a member of 20. The Expropriation Act is clearly said that the government can establish a public interest in expropriation, so it lists for various facilities, water industry and that I do not list it for both energy and municipal infrastructures. So we determined the public interest and explained why we wanted this public interest. What you specifically said had nothing to do with this amendment, but I have two things to answer. First, if you want an answer from the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, then please make a formal call. Because the call didn't come to the ministry, it just formally came to the Ministry of Mining. Secondly, the Ministry of Energy will also answer you with clear and accurate data because the data is public and should always be said and everyone should know what the prices are. I'll give you quite accidentally what I currently have from the data so I'll tell you that according to the available data that we have gas prices would be next in dollars per thousand cubic meters, Germany 373; Hungary 406,09; Slovakia 418.23; Estonia 446,56; Serbia 477,30; Romania 485,69; Greece 478.38; Italy 492,43; Czech Republic 504,57; Lithuania 522,11; Bulgaria 567,98 and Slovenia 580.13. That's the data. If there's any more information, we'll get it to you anyway. When you talk about the price of gas at all, my opinion is that every gas price in Serbia is high. I was explaining why it was like that. When you talk about this transport of a contract that exists through Hungary, etc., I must tell you that Serbia is an EU member, the price of gas transport could not be that high because there are clear rules to what level it can go. They, like all partners, use it pretty much because we're where we are, and we're headed for that one turn of gas, and then everyone can blackmail us. The arbitration of the contract has been sought even though these annual contracts are signed. We're working on it. Whether or not someone has worked in the public interest from previous ministers we are here to report to the Serbian citizens and to you and assess whether this is good or not. I agree in one thing that negotiations on the price of gas have to last all the time and that we have to do everything to make them lower. We expect an annual contract from "Serbigas" on gas delivery for 2013. We expect, we are looking and we even gave the written "Serbiagas" how to conduct the negotiations so that the price of gas is much lower than the one by which we pay the gas today. There's a written lead on this, and I'd very much like it when you make a formal request from the Ministry of Energy, it'll give you all the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12529	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12530	Thanks for the answers. There's obviously been a misunderstanding here. I asked a parliamentary question in parliament and made it clear that the issue is directed towards your ministry and the Ministry of Mining. I don't have any influence on that anymore. I don't know where the problem came from, and I don't think anyone in this country is authorized to arbitration if the MP in parliament has asked a question to different ministries, especially since I deliberately asked one and another ministry. There's a problem in different data and attitudes that I'd like to clarify. This is so embarrassing right now. Now, on behalf of the Ministry of Energy, you have given me information that differs dramatically from the data that I received today from the second ministry in that government. It's a situation I don't know what we can do. That so much price for Serbia differs over $20 per thousand cubic metres, what kind of country do we live in? The two ministries in the same government have different information about the gas prices our country buys gas from without talking about data for other countries. It seems to me that only one country is the same data. There is another thing, the Ministry of Mining has chosen those countries where gas prices are somewhat higher to prove in statistics on the sample that the price of gas for Serbia is not so high. You have chosen much more honestly a much wider circle of countries where there is a huge number of countries that have a drastically lower price than Serbia. How are we going to solve this problem? Which one in the end right? I believe that you have issued instructions and there are written clues about it, but apparently in this process, Minister Bacevic, probably others in the government, acts in some way. There is a committee between our country and the Russian government. President Nikolic has repeatedly insisted on his successes in negotiations with the Russian side. If $20 is the price of gas, how much is it on the annual level? It's a terriblely large number. It's a hell of a big one.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12531	Thank you. I will ask Minister Mihajlovic to respond, and then please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12532	I know you care about the price of gas like any citizen in Serbia. Of course we're in the government too. The competent authorities are the representatives of the "Srbigas" who are in charge of the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection. So that question you referred to was supposed to come to the Ministry of Energy, and I think that all the data that comes out of the Ministry of Energy is very relevant, and we will always say lower and higher prices. That's not controversial. At the end of the day, anyone can go to the DJ Energy site and find information from the European Commission, or the EU. So I believe that you will soon receive further information on how much gas prices will be in the annual contract for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12533	National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12534	Thank you, Madam President-in-Office, Madam Minister, and here this Article 2 actually refers to this famous public interest. Let's work things out. It's about you having, on the one hand, a user of expropriation, you have the other side that actually suffers that expropriation and you have a public interest. Then all of this connects one special procedure in the expropriation process. So these are four different things that can't be, that exist in one law, in one solution, and they can't have the same benefits for everyone. Why? Because it is the one benefiting from this expropriation, the company, owned mostly by a foreign state company, because the one who suffers this expropriation, which is the citizens of Serbia who have their own parcels on that path of the future pipeline, because the public interest is something undefined, something general and something so foggy, and it is a special procedure and how concrete. A special procedure is a shortened procedure. A special procedure can only go to the expense of the rights of those whose properties are exploded. That's why we can't sublime these four categories of concepts into one problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12535	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidić and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12536	Dear Vice-President, Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to this Article 4 that regulates the way the expropriation process is started. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: In all three attitudes, it was envisaged that the beneficiary of the expropriation, a limited liability company established for the construction of the pipeline, could submit a proposal to the competent municipal authority for expropriation. That "can" means he can and doesn't have to. Then we imagined the situation – what would happen when it started with such a big investment, with such a significant project that is of international character and which is of national importance for our country and a plot for which the expropriation user did not apply for expropriation? They would be happy not to stop, but to enter the plot and then be resolved afterwards, as will be further resolved under this law and the compensation for the exploited immovableity and the payment deadlines and compensation. In order to prevent and prevent any self-will in the behaviour of expropriation users, to ensure as much legal certainty as possible of immovable property owners as possible, as it is envisaged that around 10,000 parcels will be covered by expropriation, and these parcels are largely the basis for obtaining funds for the life of families owned by these parcels, as well as to ensure respect for the property rights guaranteed by Article 58. The constitution, we asked the amendment to delete from all three attitudes the word "can" and to write the word "tolerant" instead, which means that the user of the expropriation is obliged to submit a proposal to launch the expropriation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12537	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Koraić. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12538	Both this member and this amendment are mostly the same reasons. We also asked that the word "can" be deleted and that society undertakes to submit an expropriation proposal within three years. This is what we wanted to improve the text of this bill. We know that it will be made regardless of all the objections that have been made and in the debate in principle and in particular, of certain amendments, but these amendments we wanted to protect the owners of the immovable property and to introduce as many order in the procedure that will be carried out under this law. I can therefore express my satisfaction that these two amendments have been accepted, not because we have submitted them, but because of the satisfaction of the citizens whose parcels will be expunged and who, in this way, have some legal certainty.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12539	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12540	I'll be very brief. It's that I consider this deadline appropriate for three years. However, given that this is a major project that is planned to be completed in 2015, it is probably not precise when, and we know that late works and given that this is a really big project, I appreciate that there will be a possible possibility after the release of the pipelines in order to take part of any area for any reason, whether something to be modified, repaired, changed route etc. I don't think that two-year extension is disputed to give the South Stream company a chance to execute. Otherwise, in the event of any emergency circumstances or delays in work, we would have to amend the law, because practically by February 2016 we conclude the possibility for this society to carry out expropriation. So he can't even take over the surface afterwards, if there's a need. I think the system needs to work for a year, two, and eventually see if there's a need for that. I agree that you don't have to go too far with the deadline, because there can be abuse, that someone likes some land for the cottage or something, so I think they need to find some real measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12541	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12542	Just for a little while. The five years you've proposed is a really long time. We thought it wasn't in the spirit and purpose of the law, because we're just trying to speed up the process and we want to create the conditions as soon as possible to start building the South Stream. We expect a compression station this year, and next year the pipes are already being reported to be in 2014. So we simply thought that five years was too long and our estimates and projections told us that this could be an additional delay. That's why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12543	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12544	The most important thing is that the deadlines don't break, that it ends as soon as possible. Otherwise, it made sense in this technical proposal. Of course, it also makes sense in what the government said that deadlines should be the shortest possible. What I'm saying is that this year it's moving with the construction of South Stream and the DSS will strongly support this law, because of course, the sooner this project ends, the more jobs will be opened. It is said and it is realistic to say that it will be directly and indirectly over four, five thousand new jobs in Serbia. Today, when there is practically no investment in Serbia, this investment and this project, which is one of the biggest projects Serbia has in the last 30-40 years, are indeed of the utmost importance. In addition, Serbia is receiving, through the South Stream project, its energy security in the longer term. Energy security today becomes a key element in all countries, not only of Europe, but also of all countries in the world. I want to say that today's biggest problem and European countries are, above all, the lack of investment and, together with the North Stream, the South Stream is practically the largest project to be built in Europe in the next ten years. Once again, the project is of paramount importance and the DSS will strongly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12545	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am of the opinion that we should support Mr Ilic's amendment and read Section 1. – the company may submit an expropriation proposal no later than three years from the date of entry into force of this law. Mr. Ilic suggested that the word "three" be replaced by "five". So instead of three years to be five, which doesn't mean it's going to take five years. So they can handle it both in the first year and in the second year and in the third year, but there can also be some changes. In that case, if any changes occur, some additional expropriation will be needed, God forbid some other unplanned circumstances that may always occur, given the geopolitical situation, economic crisis, etc. It's not burning to leave five years because the bread doesn't ask. So it doesn't apply to any extension, it just extends, a tolerance period. There is some kind of tolerance rising from three to five years, so that the society that is being established can submit an expropriation proposal no later than, three says here, the MP has proposed five, and I think that because of what I have already stated it is necessary. Also, I have to say that article 5 is missing. So in the opening provisions, it seems to me in Article 4, it's clearly defined -- you have expropriation, you have incomplete expropriation and temporary seizure. What's going on with these other two things? If this deadline refers to expropriation, what about incomplete expropriation? What about the partial takeover, since we peasants are likely to be victims, someone should explain this item 1, is this word automatically – the expropriation implies both incomplete and temporary takeover, or does it apply only to the expropriation of Article 4 of Article 1, I think? So there's something that needs to be made clear. Also, in this second part, it says that a copy of the immovable cadastra can't be more than 12 months old. It is, in my opinion, also a long deadline, regardless of which it is not covered by Mr. Ilic's amendment. I think a copy of the immovableity books, therefore, of the catastra of the immovableity can be a problem, because in those 12 months, there can be many changes. I would like someone to explain this position to me first whether it applies to incomplete expropriation or only to expropriation, since the MP has suggested that the deadline be proposed for five years? It is not clear whether this also applies to temporary occupation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12547	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12548	The draft law refers to all types of expropriation, because we will have both full and partial expropriations, etc. What's important, which I don't think was clearly explained when you mentioned this amendment that you think should be adopted, is that the projecting will be over in a year. Then it will be clearly defined parcels. In order for anything to change, it has to change, as you know, the plan. The plan does not mean that the law needs to be changed, the law is being called to the plan. Therefore, the law is passed, we have it. If by chance, eventually, after this year, there is a possible change in some parcels, the plan will change, and that is certainly in accordance with the law, which I hope we will adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12549	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12550	I still don't get it, Article 5 is the opposite of Article 4. Here it writes well – society can submit a proposal to the competent municipal authority for expropriation. In the second position, the company may submit an expropriation proposal to the competent municipal authority, incomplete expropriation. Then you have attitude 4. — in order to temporarily take up the immovable property needed in connection with the construction of the South Stream pipeline facility, the company may submit a proposal for temporary takeover to the competent municipal authority. Now I do not understand, since Article 5 unequivocally writes – society can submit, or, with that amendment, a proposal for expropriation within three years at the latest. Since it's been melted into three parts, does this attitude one apply to all three species, since we peasants are going to be victims of that expropriation, as we know?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12551	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12552	I deeply believe that no one will be the victim of this expropriation but, on the contrary, that we will all benefit. Article 1 or that member mentioned refers to all types of expropriation. Also, as you know, total expropriation will be about 46 acres, of 8,000 acres where it will be partial, etc., which I hope you already know.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12553	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đurić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12554	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has made it clear that it will not support this law. We believe that the consequences of this law will not be removed by us or by generations of those who come after us. It is inadmissible for us that the country and the facilities of Serbian citizens are temporarily, completely or incompletely taken away for the benefit of a Russian company, practically, for Russia's benefit. It is inadmissible for us that when you start from Kladov, you reach Negotina, you go into Serbia's territory, and then you reach Zaječar, and then you find part of the territory of the Russian state, and then you continue on the path of Književec and Svrlig to Nis territory of Serbia. We believe that because expropriation is working in favour of the company, where majority property is owned by the Russian state, that this territory and that country belongs to the Russian Federation. Minister, you agreed in a debate on the principle that an oil-gas agreement between Serbia and Russia is harmful to the state of Serbia and beneficial to the state of Russia, because Russia is a majority partner and that Serbia is the only country in which such an unfair relationship is. That's when you said that only a state-run summit could change such a big international contract. I have one question to ask you -- what has this government, the prime minister, the first prime minister of the government, the president of this country, done to change the relationship Serbia has with Russia so far? When this parliament, the LDP, will not vote for this law, adopt such a law, it will be much harder to change the international treaty, because one part of our country's territory will belong to the Russian Federation. The amendment that we have proposed, we practically want the lists of immovableity to be used during the expropriation not more than 15 days old, because the law stipulates that these leaves can be up to a year old. In a year's time, Minister, a single plot can change owners several times. Since we know how our municipal administration works, since the municipalities will carry out this procedure, then the question arises – who will you pay for the expropriation? For this reason, we believe that the LDP amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12555	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12556	I have to admit that you LDPs are slowing us down on one side and in the other you're speeding us up, but well, I guess that's the middle of it. So, this article 5, we've been predicting for a year. As you know, property-legal relations are, as you are yourself, one serious thing after all, and your MPs have also said it. Just in favour of the owner of the plot, we predicted that this time would be a year because, for example, in 15 days, you couldn't even make the enrollment. It happens, because it's huge parcels and hectares, as you know, that maybe some of them are under some procedure and they're slow and they have some problems. So, precisely because of those who own or have problems in determining certain property transactions, we certainly put and suggested that it be a year. I'm sorry that we've inherited ineffectiveness, bureaucracy, etc., and that it's not possible to change it in a few months since it exists, or a little over six months since this government exists. But also a 15-day deadline, so I don't think you can write down any of the things even if they're not property legal relations, that some of the simplest things you can't do in 15 days. So I think this deadline that you've put unrealized into our opinions is definitely going to be a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12557	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batić. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12558	The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia supported the bill in principle, but we said that this top, highest national interest - energy stability should go hand in hand with the interest of every citizen, individual. I think that's probably the intention and the ministry, as I noticed through the discussion in particular and in the principle that the objections and the reasoning of the objections went in that spirit that we should take care equally of the protection of our own capacities and property, not just of general interest. When it comes to expropriation, it has always been in the best interests of either the state or local self-government, but it is rarer companies with limited liability, or a company of some kind, such as in this case. That is why our discussion in this direction in principle was also in the best interest of discussion, which is that we should take into account the general interest and the interests of the citizens. The tabled amendment is largely corrected by the acceptance of amendments by MP Aleksandar Senic, where the ministry accepts that the opponent is given a five-day deadline from the date of receipt of an expropriation proposal to declare his expropriation. In the debate, however, we asked for some security for the owners of the exploited country or immovableity, and it was largely corrected by the Ministry and the Government by accepting the amendment proposal on Article 10, which was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic, where it is said that society is obliged to provide money to pay compensation or another payment security instrument in accordance with the rules governing payment traffic, which is for us some kind of balance between this little extreme amendment, which we have submitted, and what other MPs have submitted, which was probably an assessment of the government and the ministry. All our discussions on the other amendments will go in this direction, because somehow every time these great and large things have happened throughout history, an individual has always been killed, and all of this has been buried by a general story of general interests, etc., which I don't think is in anyone's interest. That is why we have made a very constructive approach to this bill. In principle, we supported it. Probably, given the mood in the government and the ministry that we will eventually vote for this bill, but I would ask the minister to pay particular attention to the interests of any of the owners of the plot or owners in each of our next discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12559	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đurić. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12560	We asked for an abrogated administrative procedure to be lifted, as well as for the competent authority to be unable to reach a solution without hearing the parties. The RS government rejected this amendment with an explanation that in the same applicable Expropriation Act, which is in practice, in similar projects of a much smaller scale, these solutions proved inadequate. A moment ago, Minister, after speaking to a colleague of Popovic – on what basis do we at LDP claim that citizens will suffer damage by this law when it is known that the Tax Administration will assess the value of immovable property, unfortunately not marketable, that is an administrative value? Right from the practice you cited in the explanation. I don't know how much you know, but the first Deputy Prime Minister is known, as well as the previous government, that on the same project for another pipeline in Nis, there were big problems when you had the chance to listen to the citizens. Locals of Trupola Catastrian municipality, a village near Nis, did not accept 50 dinars per square square to be paid for their land by Jugorosgas for the reason that the tax administration estimate is 190 dinars and the market value of the estate of 1800 dinars. I think you're listening very carefully. These people, they're over 50, sued the basic court at Nis Company. The court does not judge 190, how much is the tax administration's assessment, but punishes them with a price of 42 dinars per metre square, which is confirmed by the Supreme Court on the basis of skill and on the basis of the misapplication of Article 53. Expropriation law. If this has already happened in one municipality of these citizens, and in this country it will not give authentic interpretation of Article 53, where no market value is applied, where in cases where incomplete expropriation is paid only that part of the land where the pipe passes, not the whole plot, then the question is asked – how will you compensate the country for the localities of Zaječar municipality, Paracinska and these other municipalities, where will you not even listen to the owners of the plots? It's the same situation with Leskovec at Corridor 10. Same expropriation. The same pays far lower prices to citizens instead of market value. For Corridor 10 90 dinars, the market value is 1700 dinars per metre square. These are the reasons why we believe that citizens, ten thousand of them, will certainly be damaged by this law, especially because they will not have the opportunity to declare themselves and especially because the owner of the property, the Russian firm will have the right to enter the property without the knowledge of the landowner, since it may not get an expropriation solution by then.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12561	Anyone else want a word? National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully read both the text of the amendment, have two amendments to this article, and I have also read the bill. Obviously, the legislator wants to make an expropriation as soon as possible and that the existing legal solutions are not good enough for this project to be implemented quickly and efficiently. We have nothing against efficiency and speed. I'd like it to be built tomorrow, but I'm 55 years old and I've watched the construction of a gas pipeline and I've watched the expropriation according to the laws of that time, which was far more just than the current ones, especially this law. When I said that we peasants would be victims of expropriation, I didn't just mean complete and incomplete. I was thinking of a temporary takeover. That temporary takeover is set for five years. I'm telling you from experience, this temporary take-up takes 30 years. Whoever doesn't believe can take me to the pipeline that was built 30 years ago. The pipes are dug up, the yellow ground comes to the surface and the land is almost unusable for ten years. The one that blows up and catches a 30 to 50-metre belt. If the pipeline is 700 and a few kilometers long, it is expected that more than 5,000 hectares will be unusable for at least 10, 20 years and will have a 50% weaker birth in the next 30 years. So, when I say - victim, I don't think we as a state will be damaged. However, we peasants, when someone takes away one of our scars, feel that we are in some way victims and that we are damaged. I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of trouble here. I think that, these amendments and the one that has been adopted, it seems to me to me in this position, yet the opponent of the motion will be allowed at least to make a statement about the proposal to execute. So, one company merges, just submits a proposal and enters my plot, and I don't need to know. So this will lead to many conflicts. I'll just remind myself that, it seems to me that NIS, such conflicts were in Zrenjanin and Elemir, that there were farmers, or peasants, that there were whole families being brought in, etc. because they opposed. Then you'll have different situations on the ground. You should also know the peasant mentality, which is not exactly something to praise. So why does it go through my entire plot, and my neighbor only goes through the plot partially. This is the attitude of the law, that is, a member of the law, and this is the view of the resolution ministry about speed, I welcome. Also, I must warn you of the possible consequences that will arise, given that they were and were when the Expropriation Act was in a normal procedure now that the proposal for expropriation is not intended to be delivered to the opponent of the proposal, when it is subject to the rules of the shortened administrative procedure, when the solution is taken without a prior hearing of the parties, when a proposal for expropriation under the provisions of this law may be made by an appeal which does not delay the execution of the solution. So, the other side is completely powerless. In doing so, it will not be satisfactorily notified and given that peasant logic and philosophy, which is not disputed, so we are not without fault, we love the country too much, and then as someone passes in part, catches a wider belt, with someone catching expropriation, with someone only temporary seizure, there will be a variety of disputes, and this member is very important. I can't even say that the amendment is something special, but I'm afraid that it's even a little bit closer to reality on the ground, but it's a proposed solution. I don't think this is the Holy Scriptures, and if there's any problem, we'll handle it on the walk. I welcome that speed, but I must warn you, since I've had experience building one pipeline, it's going through my field, so this particular belt of land to this day isn't all about 50%. For the first ten years on those 50 meters of belts, the yellow land was blown up, the land was no longer for agricultural cultures. Since this is a temporary takeover for five years, it's likely that the compensation will be only in five years. I'm afraid you'll have problems, but I believe that this law is not the Holy Scriptures and that we're going to change it in walking, but I have to warn you of what's waiting for you and us on the ground, and I don't want to diminish the proposal that this is done as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12563	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12564	I'll tell you right now, this member is in two parts, and he's fixing it exactly by amendments, I mean, DS. So, it will be stated, we have accepted this amendment, as will become a mandatory financial guarantee, although it should exist under the Expropriation Act. Your fear and everything you say, I totally agree, and that's why he's a member in that sense and fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12565	Mrs Popovic, you have three minutes left as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12566	Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad the SNS gentleman understood what we LDP MPs wanted with this amendment to Article 6. It's about this fast speed that's scheduled for Article 6 and what doesn't really realize how much it's going to cause big problems and what's going to reverse this whole future business, as far as building a South Stream pipeline. Unfortunately, this Article 6 is about Article 5, which has just been debated, and I don't see why this Article 5 leaves the age of a copy of a real estate catastra for about a year. So, here you leave a certain age, a total lack of urgency, which is derived from the catastrophe of immobility. In Article 6, you insist on speed. It just doesn't go together. You won't have the right picture, you won't have the right information about the owner of the property to expung the property, because a year is too long. This isn't about deadlines. This is about the age of a copy of a catastrophe of immovableity. Therefore, it is obvious that it was not entirely ruled by the right ambition to speed up the process, since there are obviously some relics of the past, as far as the administration's communications are concerned.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12567	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12568	One short replica. I'm not with the SNS, I'm just at the MPs' club, or I'm the president of the People's Peasants' Party, like you're a member of the LDP, not a turnaround. Just enough to correct you. I wasn't so supportive of your amendment from that angle, I was talking about practice. We had this kind of expropriation, we had to build a pipeline. I was talking about problems that may arise that, on the basis of your amendment and the legal solution, a third solution should be found if there are any irregularities on the ground and if the procedure is difficult. So, if there are any circumstances that we didn't foresee by your amendment, or by this law. So, I welcome your desire to fix the law, but I also welcome the proposal of the lawmaker to implement the project quickly. There we need to find some measure and we need to monitor the situation on the ground, given the circumstances, if necessary, that this law, how many amendments and additions of the law we have made on various issues, we can change in this part. In my opinion, the legislator and the amendment promoter should also be joined together and what has been adopted and thus do something that will have to walk in practice. I'm the president of the People's Peasants' Party, just like you, the LDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12569	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12570	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, by adopting this amendment and other amendments submitted by the DS, is a significantly improved proposal for this law. The amended provisions of this law allow citizens whose property is subject to expropriation to declare the proposal for expropriation, and the South Stream is also obliged to provide in advance financial resources for the payment of expropriated assets and to provide evidence. What I'm interested in, and I ask you to give me an answer to the question -- how is it intended to issue a location permit in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction without submitting a copy of the plot plan of the underground installations? This is Article 10(2). My question specifically concerns those 10% land that is not agricultural land, since we have been told that 90% of the route will go across agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12571	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đurić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12572	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the fact that this article foresees the takeover of the state, i.e. taking possession of the immovable property, and that the solution, which it has determined, has not become a forceful one. It's not done in the rule of law. This is not done in legal order that has the ambition to be serious. Simply, you have to carry out one procedure in order to result in one decision, to which one whose damage or benefit the decision is concerned can react, can result in both the first and the second and the third degrees, if necessary. In this case, however, you have prevented the owner of the immovable property from maintaining the property until the issue of his appeal is resolved, unless he is satisfied with the decision. So here you are also calling for a quick call, and here you are calling for urgency, and it is obvious that even though you will suffer the consequences of those who will have to surrender their state. It's obvious and clear already from this article, and the whole law actually points to that fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12573	Thank you. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12574	Thank you, Vice President. For us in LDP it is unacceptable to issue information on location and location permit contrary to the Law on Planning and Construction, more specifically without submitting a copy of the plot plan and copies of underground installations. Because, you will admit, Minister, that every citizen who wants to get a local permit in the municipal administration's competent authority, even for the most ordinary fence or roof on his home, must deliver a copy of the plot plan and a copy of the underground installations. There were a lot of problems in Nis when building an existing pipeline, just about the plot plan. I don't see why we should slow down the process of building South Stream, if the Russian firm were to deliver a copy of the parcels when it came to obtaining location information and location permits. First of all, the aid to the company can provide municipalities, but then we would know for sure and be sure which parcels the pipeline will pass, so as not to repeat the case as in Nis, that the pipeline is intended to pass through some plots and pass through quite opposite parcels. Especially important are these underground installations. You'll agree that it's not right to break the optic cord. How are you going to build a pipeline if you don't know where the underground installations are going? If it is necessary for citizens of Serbia to obtain these copies of parcels, in order to obtain permission at least for the most ordinary fence, then we believe that this should also be attached in this process. It is also unacceptable that a local authorisation can be issued without proof that funds have been provided for the payment of land. Under this law, we even believe that the country should previously be paid to the owners, and not that there is no need to prove that the funds are secured, nor does it stand until the country is paid to the owners, especially as it passes into Russia's ownership. By this law alone, you gave the Russian firm the opportunity to obtain all these permits without charge and payment of one single administrative fee. The citizens of this country when they go to extract a copy of the birth certificate must pay a fee. We really don't see what's controversial about the Russian firm paying taxes to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12575	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12576	For your information, no administrative fee has been abolished by this law, or will be abolished by this law. Secondly, the parcels are already listed in the plan, as is their intended purpose. So any new performance would not be effective enough. Once again, I stress, no administrative fees have been abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12577	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Gerov, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12578	Your Honorary Minister, then you're probably not in progress, but I'm saying the first Deputy Prime Minister is. pitches were also made in Nis. Because citizens also wrote to the previous government, because of this problem, parcels were given by the government. Then on the ground, the regulation plan changed and the pipeline passed through other parcels. People have also filed criminal charges for an illegal regulation plan. For that reason, we don't think you can work here without a copy of the plot. If all citizens of this country are in favour of a simple location permit to copy the plot plan, we feel it is necessary to do so here too.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12579	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12580	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that, Madam Minister, you have held consultations with your associates and that you can answer my question just now. The amendment therefore meant that the competent ministry could issue information on the location without submitting a copy of the parcel plan. We have made an amendment to delete this: "without submitting copies of the plot plan". Furthermore, in the second part of the amendment, we have submitted a provision that the location permit can be issued without submitting a copy of the plot plan and the extract from the underground installation cadastre. When we talked about the law in principle, you said that 90% of the route goes to agricultural land. I also have to remind you that many optical cables pass through or through agricultural land. I'm interested, if you've checked and have no cross-breeding with any other infrastructures on agricultural land, how will they be issued or how will a location permit be issued for those 10% or those 10% land that is not agricultural land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12581	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12582	The 10%, mentioned by you, will be granted a local authorisation based on a public company plan. Let me mention once again, since I've already talked about this, about the location permit, it exists in the plan and it's precisely intended. As for the consultation, of course, I'm not all-knowing, I'm not a lawyer, and I always want to consult with those who know exactly from word to word how some things are going to work out. I believe you would do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12583	Thank you. The word is Mr. Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12584	Why isn't that built into the law? Therefore, the plan of public enterprises should be a provision or condition for the issue of local permits. I ask again, because I worry about the existing facilities that have already been built and which are already on the future South Stream track, how will the possible damage to existing facilities be avoided, if we have not legally provided that the location permit is issued with a copy of the underground installation catalogue, and also the law does not provide for the establishment of this plan of public enterprises, or what have you already called it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12585	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12586	It's not about the plan of public enterprises, it's about the conditions of public enterprises. You asked, why isn't it in the law? Because some things are also meant under the Law on Planning and Construction, which I also believe you know, otherwise we would have made a law. Then why do we need this other law that goes without saying? So, some things are understood and accurate, and the conditions of public enterprises are at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12587	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Koraić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12588	Our amendment was rejected by the government, with reason – the amendment is not accepted because it was partly accepted by the adoption of amendments by MP Ivan Jovanovic to Article 10(3) of the proposal. It's okay. Very little differs the proposal made by colleague Ivan from our proposal. I admit, his is even more precise, predicting other security funds, except for the provision of assets at the level of the market value of immovableity. I think it is important that at least one of these amendments is accepted and that funds be provided because enough uncertainty is already being introduced by Article 9 which says that the user will be in possession of the immovable property that is being expunged seven days from the day of the solution. The non-acceptability of the amendments submitted by colleagues leaves this settlement to the law. This enables the owner of the immovable property not to receive the solution that its immovableity is exploited and that the user is already in possession. By providing funds by users, it is provided in some way and the owner of the immovable property that his fee will be paid, but it is only the first part of our amendment. The second section refers to item 4, where it says – for the construction of the "South Stream" pipeline, a solution can be made on the building permit for individual stages or parts of the route. It's not clear here whether the accent on "can be brought" or "separate phases and shares". I think that if the accent on "can be brought", we still have that volunteerism problem, like with the first and second of our amendment – it may or may not. We cannot allow it to move into any stage of construction without a building permit. Thus, the obligation to issue a building permit and to have a building permit by the users of the expropriation, i.e. the investor, must exist, whether it is issued for the whole project or phase. Given the size of the project, the size of the investment, it will be almost impossible to extract a building permit for the whole project at once and it is almost certain that it will go phase, and we wanted to propose that there be an obligation to issue, instead of "can be issued", to write "a building permit is issued".
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12589	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12590	The President-in-Office, a respected minister, in the proposal for this law was this one exception - evidence within the meaning of Article 135(1). The law on planning and construction, the Company does not have to deliver a bank guarantee or security and that money for the expropriation and payment of property owners has been provided. This amendment also changes this provision and the Law on Planning and Construction. She'll have to be respected. For us from the DS and for me, it is a pleasure that this amendment has been accepted because this way citizens who expect an expropriation fee will be more confident that this fee will be provided. We had in principle a discussion of the different information on which the amount of funds was provided, so by accepting my amendment, the dilemma is removed whether there is a guarantee for these citizens. The Democratic Party is pleased that this amendment has been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12591	Thank you. Minister Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12592	If there were no confusion, I'd say, the amendment was accepted because it's certainly to ensure once again that it will be so. But the 2013 Budget Law, as I informed you, has provided money and the existing Expropriation Act, must also provide proof that there are financial resources. But I agree with you when it comes to finance, we've secured another one by accepting your amendment and putting it in the very draft of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12593	Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12594	This amendment has been rejected on the grounds that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Government Act is prescribed that the Government can educate the occasional working bodies, and the Education Decision establishes their task and composition. I understand that this is the explanation that you gave, but we knew that. We wanted to make this amendment binding, however, on the law of the working body which is being educated whether it is occasionally or temporarily, it is already less important, that it periodically informs this Assembly. If it has already come to this Assembly with a bill like this, which is a lex specialis in relation to the Expropriation Act and that is passed for this one project and one case, conditioned to say, as it has not been in our practice so far, then I think that, by supporting such a law, MPs are also taking on a great responsibility for the realization of it. It is our duty to follow the laws we make. That is why we felt that the law itself should also include the obligation of this working body occasionally reporting to the Assembly on the course of the expropriation process and the construction of the South Stream pipeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12595	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dusan Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12596	Thank you. My colleague was already talking about article 15, and we talked about it in principle. It is mentioned, of course, that this working body will also act as representatives of the ministry responsible for energy affairs, finance, construction and spatial planning. This working body will obviously be people who can sort of coordinate and agree, so let me say a word - control. I have submitted an amendment in front of the DS, where at the end of this part where it is mentioned that the working body is mostly made up of people from the ministry of resolutions, added "and representatives of the Belgrade University of Civil Engineering". In the explanation that we have received why the amendment is not accepted, the reason is that it does not contribute to operational work. I can understand that the easiest thing to do is to shut down the professional public and then at the level of the ministry, and I can accept this second part, to favour one college in this proposed way. I don't mind the amendment not being accepted in this proposal. I thought the most relevant institution was the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Belgrade. But with such an explanation that the body would not be operational and that it would be best if only they were representatives of the ministry, I don't think you met the need and involvement of the professional public. I cannot accept any argument that will speak in favour of the professional public being able to trip or disable any body to be operational. If it's another college and if it could be better defined, I don't mind, it's not a matter of vanity here. It's just that this working body needs to be as relevant as possible. It was actually a proposal for this amendment. I find it regrettable that perhaps the rewritten text could be adopted, but obviously there was no, I should say, good will to look at this proposal with good intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12597	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12598	A small supplement, therefore, the government can certainly engage the professional public through this temporary body, not only the Faculty of Civil Engineering, but also all other universities, and perhaps the Engineering Chamber, and perhaps eventually those who have the licenses just to run certain projects. I deeply believe that this will happen, because ultimately, the Ministry of Energy will insist. So there is absolutely no fear and at least on our side, it will certainly be a request. They can be there for a while, all the time while doing that body, etc. It is indeed the right of the government and I believe that it will be in the spirit so that it corresponds to this very law and to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12599	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12600	The thing is, we can't tie here to your oral promises, and we wanted it to be legal. We don't know if you're going to be the minister, whether another month, another six months, we don't know if you're going to make it through the implementation of the whole project. We can't talk about whether you had any intention. It doesn't say here. This means that the professional public will be some additional member, perhaps with the right to vote, perhaps temporarily, perhaps we will sometimes call them, perhaps not. It's just that this law has a lot of optional stuff. It often leaves a possibility, but it doesn't really define itself. The laws also serve to make something very clear, so that it could not be widely interpreted, that was the point of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12601	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Milovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12602	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I support the amendment of my colleague Dusan Obradovic and I immediately ask the question – what are the other professional and scientific institutions? Unless you're thinking about some colleges that are under the influence of quotes that some have completed. Why is this important? Investment in science in Serbia is minimal. It's according to the last budget 0.3%. For example, there is 1.5% in Slovenia. More money is spent on agencies and management costs. The beginnings of the course in the area of construction in these areas are linked to the year 1846, when Knjaz Serbian established an Indjinn School in Belgrade with this apparition. In 1863 a large school was established with three universities, one of which was technically with the Department of Science on dry and water construction. At the opening of the university in 1905, prominent scientist Sima Lozanic says – our former belief that Serbia would unite not with a Bucharest but with a weapon, was fatal to our thought. If our education had been more advanced, everything in our people's lives would have been more perfect, even more successful. What are known experts from Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering, and why is this important? Accademik Nikola Hajdin, professor of Dr Milan Đuric, author of the "Gazela" Bridge, Ljubomir Jeftovic, one of the designers of the new railway bridge in Belgrade. Everything goes in favor of this amendment being adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12603	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12604	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, I thought that we had solved all the dilemmas on the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, given that we have agreed with the representatives of the Government that have really essentially defined some things. But it's obvious that some amendments are now becoming the subject of some political presentation, attitudes, that simply take everything out of context. Of course, there is a good will for university institutions to be part of working groups that will monitor infrastructure projects, and they should be, but not only the Faculty of Civil Engineering. Because that's why you, if you look at some other aspects from which simply the colleagues who have proposed this amendment are looking too closely. Why not also be the Faculty of Economics from Belgrade, why not be the Faculty of Engineering from Belgrade? Why shouldn't the Serbian Engineering Chamber be involved in all of this at all? I want to tell you that I think the Ministry's position here has been widespread. If not introduced as a proposal for this amendment, then a broad possibility is given that the entire professional public participates in the work in a good way from the point of view of co-operation with ministry representatives. After all, there is a need to support such a possibility. It is not necessary to limit and make a single profession campaign, with due respect for the construction profession, but we believe that such an infrastructure project is practically one species of importance for all professions, for the complete economy of the Republic of Serbia. With that, I'm heartily against such an amendment. Personally as a member of the ruling coalition and as chairman of the Committee, for the simple reason that it is not necessary to close the doors of other scientific institutions for participation in such projects, especially from the point of view of such a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12605	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12606	Yes, Mrs. Tomic, but we are opening that door with this amendment because, I agree, you may need to put those other reference colleges you've listed, but then you can't say that these are actually opening doors because it's completely incorrectly stated that anyone will be consulted. If the Faculty of Civil Engineering can be referenced to making refinery in Russia, then it should be clear, precisely stated that it will be within this body. I don't see why that's the problem. If we are all to give the profession our opinion, the minister has also expressed herself positively in this regard, with a very clear oral attitude, why don't we turn it into an amendment. I really don't understand why this is unacceptable. There's already been these situations. We had it around the NBS, we had other things, so you had to rewrite the laws. So let's be exact. We don't want to politicise this amendment. You understand, if I am as a People's MP in the temptation to tell you that maybe we put Megatrend on it to get you into the law. I'm not gonna do that. So please think about this after all. I think this goes in favor of that, with everything you say that respects, why don't we expand. But with all the confidence of the minister, why don't you write it? This will give recognition to these institutions, our scientific institutions of our country, who have shown that they know how to implement these projects beyond our borders. I think that's what we as a congregation are, getting out of this system just, just what you said, we're expanding that thing. One thing we ask to write, and you say believe the minister. So that's the only difference between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12607	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12608	I thank you for this proposal, but then it is up to you to submit a new amendment that will apply to the University of Belgrade. To support that part of the task force be by the universities in Belgrade and the Serbian Engineering Chamber. That would be one of the solutions we can talk about or through some other changes and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12609	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Dusan Obradovic. I guess it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12610	I'd like to ask the same question. In my presentation, I immediately said that I could accept the argument that it might be tightly placed. Here, a fellow member of parliament from the ruling majority may have said a personal position that she would accept the amendment in such a constitution. So, I have no problem reshaping the amendment, and on the proposal of the Minister, we define the exact institutions that would represent the professional public here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12611	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12612	I'll be brief, I couldn't agree more, as we'd like to say. University, Engineering Chamber, and we're going to make an exact amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12613	To honor the form if the Committee wishes to meet by the end of the debate. The only option is that the Committee submits an amendment or an amendment to the amendment to amend the amendment. Do you agree to take a break? So we're taking a 15-minute break to bring this amendment in line. [[After a break.]] Since you have received an amendment with an amendment submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic, I ask if anyone wants a word about this amendment? Excuse me, Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12615	Okay, I just once again wanted to say I accept the amendment, the correction of the amendments where we're actually introducing: "the representatives of the University of the Scientific Institutions of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering", and to thank you once again, that I would not take my word again for a constructive debate and that I sincerely hope that this law will be passed in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-02-19-0.u12616	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment, with a correction? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andric and Bojan Đuric. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all session agenda points, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 20 February 2013, starting at 11.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you.
