ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15498	Thank you. Once again, I would ask you, if possible, not to be late for the beginning of the session, because this is not how you go to Europe, and it would also congratulate the citizens of Serbia on the Day of Europe and the Day of Victory. When it comes to the parliamentary issue, I would continue what the DS started yesterday, and that is the question of the government how does it think it can solve the difficult economic situation in the country? We asked for a special session on the subject. My question to the government, since this issue can't wait a day, is what will it do to urgently stop a serious daily growth in unemployment? What will it do to stop the fall of citizens' standards and what does the government plan from economic and social measures in order to enable citizens to survive in this situation, when the government has so far failed to deal with the economy and what it has done better if it has not dealt with, as Minister Dinkic has been doing these days? Another thing is touching this issue, which is the fact that the way the last days and the last months, since this government has been in office, have been spending budgets. You have had opportunities to these days, and by this Serbia becomes a land of wonders, you see that a public enterprise is funding... Please, colleagues, if it's possible for me to finish the parliamentary question. Please don't take this away from me from my time. So what will the government do to prevent the non-transparent spending of the funds of Serbian citizens? The public IT company from Novi Sad, which collects revenues from utility services, paid three million dinars to print a single singer's CD. On the other hand, we see that some local self-government, where the SNS, the SPS, etc., organises the arrival of the Anna Bekuta concert in Belgrade, etc. I would ask the government who is funding the billboards that are hanging around Serbia these days and on which it says, "Drink milk" and with the character Susana Mancic, Cece, etc.? Who pays those personalities? Who pays the billboards? What's the point? Was that funded by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture? We're asking for an answer because there are no signatories. They're confused citizens. I don't know how many aflatoxins there are in that milk, it doesn't say that either, but it's a serious question because milk exports are halved. On the other hand, I'd like to ask the first Deputy Prime Minister, Vukic. He was in Croatia these days, visiting Croatia. It was the first time that a representative of the Serbian state went to the Republic of Croatia without talking to representatives of the Serbian people. Not only with parliamentary deputies, he did not speak to the bishop of Zagreb, nor with the bishop of the Dalmatian. I remind you he visited him in an election campaign for the previous election a year ago. He has not spoken to any Serbian nationality citizen in Croatia. Please, gentlemen of the SNS, I know that mentioning Vukic to you is causing anxiety, excitement, but let me ask Mr. Vukic why he did not talk to the Serbs from Croatia to ask them what their problems are? Was it a more important lunch or breakfast in Maksimir or a walk in Zagreb than talking to Serbs in Croatia? This speaks of the lack of honesty of the first Deputy Prime Minister's policy, and possibly a potential candidate for president. Please answer the question why didn't he talk to the Serbs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15499	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15500	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to ask the Ministry of Education and Science. On 26 April, the Ministry of Education announced a competition for enrolment in secondary school for the next school 2013/2014. A year. According to some criteria and parameters that the Ministry took in its analysis, it was defined that in the field of the Nis School Administration for the next school year the number of classes in secondary schools, i.e. in first grade secondary schools, was reduced. Out of four gymnasiums, a reduction is foreseen for one class in three high schools. Of the 22 vocational schools, a reduction of one department is also foreseen. It's the fact that it's the school's 2013/2013. 635 students enrolled less than the previous school year 2011/2012. A year. This is due to the lack of children, a reduction in birthrights, and all of this is generally due to the reflection of a major socio-economic crisis that has been in government for the past few decades and is particularly visible in the area of southern and Southeast Serbia. The question for the Ministry of Education is – is it possible for the Ministry of Education to take up and change the criteria and instead of reducing the number of departments in the school high schools, i.e. not only in the school administration, but in the area of the School Administration of Nis, which affects the Toplički district, Pirotski near Nisavsky and others, that instead of reducing the number of students in those departments, instead of going to a reduction in the number of students, and that, from the current 30 or 32 students, the average after one grade of reduction by four to five students and on the control of these reduced number of students in the department, it is possible to keep the current level of the department in the first grade of secondary schools? That way we'd have a double effect. In fact, teaching in departments of 25 or 26 students would certainly be more quality than in departments of 30 to 32 students. On the other hand, we cannot in any way ignore the problem that will arise when the number of department cuts in terms of the technological surpluses of the teaching staff that will occur there. What do you do with these people? Educational workers did not mean that at some point in time, there would be a lack of children in this country, that the demographic situation would be so negative that it would directly affect their work. It's okay if one of the professions is an engineering profile, a machine engineer, a construction engineer, he already has the opportunity to find a job in the economy. But what to do with historians, geographers and similar profiles, biologists, who, except in that profession, literally have nowhere else to go and to look for other arrests. I want to appeal to the Ministry of Education that it cannot observe the problem of child deprivation linearly and that the issue of reduction in the number of departments is applied linearly throughout Serbia, and I am not even so sure that it is applied linearly throughout Serbia. Namely, I admit that I do not have enough information related to the Vojvodina area and the Belgrade city area. I'm afraid that the reduction may have been only to the central part of Serbia, but the question I would ask the Ministry of Education is – is it possible to take into account, when correcting this existing competition, the criteria for reducing the number of students in the department rather than reducing the number of departments with the arguments that I have previously cited and explained? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15501	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15502	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, Madam Chairman, I request an explanation from the President of the Assembly who is not present today. The fact that he rarely attends the sessions also speaks about his relationship with parliament, and more importantly, I believe that as Parliament's president, he is not, above all, acting as the most responsible, as the one who should take care of Parliament's credibility. On the contrary, he's acting like a vice president of the SNS here. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't think there should be any secrets between us regarding the functioning of parliament and the financing of parliament. Of course, that all of us, like all people who live and work in this country, should know everything about Parliament, and especially about public money flows. Now, explain to me, I ask the President of the Assembly to explain to me what secret method, space, megamethods I am, at the time of the holiday, when the assembly is not doing, when it cannot be denied as the most expensive MP in this House? If you take into account that I am a Member who has neither the most internships here nor a Member who has some function in this House, then you will see how disgusting that lie is and how much it's all used to actually lynch the opposition and, above all, the LDP. Since you have no argument now that you are attacking us as extremists, as we are traitors, then you have found a way to discredit us with false, haired data as we from LDP are the most arrogant and expensive MPs. I think it's every citizen's right to know all about the profits, first of all, I can't make any more money than the president himself, not even the vice president. That's very clear. As for costs, they must also be transparent, I mean the costs of MPs. So, I'm saying I didn't charge any travel expenses even though I'm not from Belgrade, even though I don't own an apartment in Belgrade. If I hadn't spent a single dime on official travel abroad for the past 10 years, which puts me in line for the most profitable MPs, and which puts me in the second half of the list and my colleague Hajdarevic, who also, in all the breaking news during the holidays, was this fake, haired news that I am actually the most expensive MP. How do I fix a mistake? If one day was news that I am the most expensive MP, if the next day, only afternoon, the state agency has denied it and announced that I am not the most expensive MP, I think there is an open question left to see and that it is necessary for the public to know who these MPs are at the most cost and cost. That is why I am asking the President of the Assembly, who I believe is not his personal secretary, but the secretary of the entire assembly, to announce from the biggest to the smallest profit in this House, and also the cost. Costs, as you know, can be at three basics, which are a fee for rent or travel expenses. Those options can be used by those outside Belgrade who have not received an apartment, such as the vice prime minister and the president of the state in 1999, although I was also the speaker of the assembly and I had significant and responsible roles in this country. No one will benefit from the collapse of parliament, we will all have damage. The day they faked it, the haired data was released the day the LDP handed over the list in Zemun. To make the irony bigger, it was Media Freedom Day. Then imagine what kind of country we live in when it is possible to hair and fake data and that opposition MPs, above all LDPs, are marked as the most lenient, and are in fact the most profitable and honest MPs when all the costs we have ever made are considered.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15503	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15504	Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate all Serbian and European citizens on the Day of Victory over Fascism and Europe Day and point out that Serbia is one of the few countries that had two major anti-fascist movements. The first was led by General Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic, who is the first guerrilla in the enslaved Europe and the second was the Partizan movement. However, Serbia continues to be hypocritical towards its first anti-fascist because although it is legally even, both movements have been fully equalised, no members of the Ravnogorje Movement have yet to receive pension from the Republic of Serbia, which is not the case in Slovenia. Slovenians have been more resilient than Serbia, and I hope that Serbia will correct this great shame in the future. What's my question, the health minister's question, is the topic. In 2006, the Ministry of Health appointed a working group tasked with developing a national programme and a national strategy to combat the early detection of cancer. As humanitarian aid to its taxpayers, the European Union has delivered 6.6m euros to Serbian health care for a screening programme for early detection of cancers that is the safest way to combat this dangerous disease. The programme was adopted in 2008 and since then, mortality has been reduced to some extent, since we are unfortunately at an infamous first place in Europe. In 2009, the United States of The European Union has given money. It was necessary to obtain only microscopes, cancer detection equipment and train those who would work on them. At the end of last year, the Minister of Health said at a meeting of the Assembly's Health Committee that Serbia would be in danger of returning about 30 mammograms previously received from donations, because it did not train staff to handle them. A project adopted in 2008, despite the fact that the European Commission has always stressed in its reports that Serbia has gone to health corruption, however, the project has come to life. The National Scanning Office was established at the Institute of Public Health and was trained by about 400 doctors and technicians. Through tenders for the purchase of equipment, 15 analogue and six digital mammography apparatus, 28 work stations, 18 video systems, etc. were purchased. However, according to the number of uterus cancers, Serbia remains the first in Europe, because we have 27 women who die annually and 452 women die and survival is directly related to the time in which the survival of the cervix is revealed. The example works, Slovenia, which is often our role model in its behaviour, has only applied the screening program for a year more than we have in a few years. What is worrying is that the late purchase of laboratory equipment and a microscope for cancer detection, so that Serbia can lose another year until the equipment is obtained, until it is installed, until the staff is trained. My particular question of health ministers – what will she, as health minister, do specifically to make up for lost time and to keep Serbia from being in the infamous first place in the fight for the health of our population? A long time has passed, many tenders have failed, many direct negotiations with equipment suppliers have failed, and we are still in the infamous first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15505	Thank you. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15506	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, doctors warn that there has been a dramatic increase in the territory of Serbia in the number of cancers and leukemia. For example, in 2001, 30,744 new cancer patients were discovered in Serbia, and only in 2010, so 10 years later, there were 37,412 newly ill citizens. The number of people suffering from leukemia and all kinds of cancers increased by 10 years over 110% and the number of people dying of these diseases increased by 180%. These data are increasingly linked to NATO aggression and the bombing of impoverished uranium in Serbia's territory. Of course, opponents of this thesis say – Serbia has not been bombed throughout the territory by poor uranium. But, gentlemen, my dear, pollution knows no bounds. Water, especially groundwater, air-based, has polluted the entire Balkans with impoverished uranium, not only Serbia. You can track this by comparing data from countries in the Balkans. Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic sees no link between the cancer epidemic in Serbia and, on the other hand, the poored uranium. It is quite in place, because it is now her friends who bombed us with poor uranium and with them in the government who is doing so together with it, who is doing everything to separate Kosovo definitely with those who have started this separation. She, which is very embarrassing, says that citizens themselves are guilty because they are irresponsible in relation to their health, because they have poor health habits and are themselves guilty of illness. It won't be quite that the citizens are guilty because they don't have medical records and medical records, which they eat badly, which they can't go to sea, which are under stress from losing their jobs and stuff like that. The fact that she did not detect a link between the poored uranium and the cancers of our minister, the Italian doctors observed. As you know, just one group of Italian soldiers who was in Kosovo after the bombing, and then became ill with cancer, sued their government and received a verdict in the Italian court because the government did not give all the facts, although she knew there was a really problematic situation regarding poisoning with poor uranium. As you can see, some of our doctors, and I really have to say that I admire a doctor's ethics that wants to speak honestly about things, say, the president of the Cancer Society, Professor. Slobodan Cikaric, insists there is a direct link between the cancer epidemic, on the one hand, and the fact of the impoverished uranium, on the other. That's what the radiologist Professor said in 1999. Kovacevic, warning that we will be in this state in 10 to 15 years. We've come into this situation, but we still don't talk about it openly. Serbia has therefore set up an ionising radiation protection agency and nuclear security. The agency had a job to monitor radioactivity in Serbia's territory. She had air tracking activities, surface waters, rainwaters, drinking waters, land, twice a year controlled river sediments, troughs, controlled foods of all kinds, and plant and animal origin, livestock food. Also, monitoring included monitoring the presence of the poored uranium left behind after NATO aggression. This has just been done in the territory of the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Vranje, which are the most injured and are directly dumped in uranium, in water, in plants and in land. So, the agency's job was extremely important. In March 2012, the Agency stopped working. Dulic no longer paid for it. Finally, by abolishing the fund, this government practically shut down the Agency's work. My question is this - why do Serbian citizens not have the right to know what the real state of radioactivity in our country is and when and how, under what conditions, will this agency start working again? To remind me that Serbia has an international obligation to exchange data in this area. The exchange of data does not take into account the oral level of the Director, there must be written material. That's why my question is so important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15507	Thank you. National MP Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15508	Madam President, I would like to clarify one thing entirely, which I think is important, because it is often raised by the public but also by the National Assembly, especially with regard to the cost of how much some MPs cost in the National Assembly of Serbian Citizens. First of all, I would like to say, with consultations with the Secretary-General, that the National Assembly did not give any information for the holidays or the holidays, and as far as I know, there was even an apology to the Tanjug for the misreading of the data that they interpreted in this way. However, I am sorry that some MPs here find every possible moment and have every need to attack the SNS. I understand their political motives, but I really think it's unacceptable. I ask the chairman to warn the MPs. We listened carefully to the orders of other MPs and did not protest. I ask you to take advantage of all your powers and allow me to finish what I am about to say, especially when it comes to the situation that the National Assembly is unknown, and I would like to read this information as much as the heads of Parliament have been present in this room since the beginning of this assembly. Let's see how many days, hours, some minutes, they spent in this room at sessions where the most important issues were discussed, stayed just enough to say what they had to say, leaving the gym even when they personally proposed those agenda points. I think it would be very important for the National Assembly to know exactly how much time they spent in the O.R. Because it costs the citizens of Serbia a lot more. They receive great wages and do not come to their work, do not come to the National Assembly. I think it's time for that practice to get naked. The same people find it a right to all salt their minds, to show everyone that they are above them, while at the same time they do not meet the minimum of their obligations as a national envoy. I would like to explain how all the costs in the National Assembly are calculated, how much the National Assembly costs a day, how much it costs to come and not come, and finally get it over with. For it is also a thing that humiliates the dignity of the National Assembly, and with all my heart I will always fight for all the MPs in this congregation to be exactly equal and for the National Assembly, as it does today, to come out with all the accurate and accurate data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15509	Thank you. We can't advertise the Rules of Procedure in this part of the session. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić and Branko Gogic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic, I have called on the minister of traffic to attend both Dejan Lasica and Mirjana Trifunovic, the assistant minister of traffic. We are continuing a joint, principled and uniform search on the draft law on railways, a bill on the validation of the Strasbourg Convention of limitations and responsibilities and internal navigation, a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the field of maritime transport of item 1, 6 and 7 of the agenda. Natasa Micic is reporting for damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15510	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising member injury 27. A Rules of Procedure relating to the authority of the President of the Assembly, which in his previous address showed how he could abuse those powers and powers. In fact, Mr. President, it is true that the Tanjug State Agency has denied the news the next afternoon that I am the most expensive MP in this assembly. But, Mr. President, she wasn't interested in the first day of May 2nd on Thursday, that news was breaking news in all the media, to see if it was true, nor did it touch you that a state agency was denying the news, and you as president of the Assembly that should protect Parliament's reputation do not feel the need to answer. So I'm telling you that you are acting as SNS Vice President, if it were Mr Babic or Veroljub Arsic, I wonder if you would react. This is not the first time, Mr. President, when the head of the parliamentary group was physically attacked and the citizen Srdjan Cesic suffered serious physical injuries, you reacted inadequately, softly and late, because you were pressured by the public. Do you understand? I don't have any of your apologies, nor any of Tanjug's denials, you've only shown the way you want to rule - by deception. So, the fight against corruption implies that you are primarily able to publish accurate and complete information on the costs and salaries of the MPs, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15511	Thank you. Nebojsa Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15512	First, the National Assembly did not publish any information to say that we published something incorrect. So the National Assembly didn't publish anything. You know how many times each of us would have to check something out if every column in the papers checked out and read what was written there. Secondly, here is the question of what I was talking about in the previous period. I'm ready for everything we've done all the expenses that exist to be published, these texts to be published in the paper. I think there's one malicious interpretation here to try with one thing that absolutely doesn't exist, that the National Assembly has done anything illegal or harmful and to present it in such a way. Did the press publish anything? I really can't affect that. I'm not affecting what the papers are publishing. They finally apologized to you and you had information that was finally confirmed as such, how much who was spending. As far as I'm concerned, this thing is completely declassified. If the National Assembly had announced anything incorrect about it, someone today would have answered, but the National Assembly did not. The National Assembly has always provided accurate and accurate information. We're doing it today. We also publish this on the site of the National Assembly. That's what the National Assembly can do at any moment, any journalist can approach and address the cabinet. It's not the President's office and we have nothing to do with it. That's what the Secretary General's Office does, and they always give precise and accurate information about every detail in the dinar. Is any of the journalists going to interpret it one way or another, I'm sorry, it's media freedom. You don't think you can end freedom of the media, do you? How you managed this country and how you fought crime, corruption and in the city of Belgrade where you did power, the citizens of Serbia well assessed it in previous elections when you did not cross the censorship in Belgrade and show what they think of your rule. It will also show the citizens of Serbia how they feel about how each of us did his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15513	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15514	I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure, a violation of a 107 member of the Parliament's dignity. Unfortunately, what we could see was just the dignity of the assembly brought down by the president of the assembly. The speaker of the assembly showed by his address that he is not interested in the reputation and credibility of parliament, nor the reputation of MPs. His function is to protect the MPs. Mr. President, if I were you, I'd definitely check the data first, and then I'd deny the information that's not true. How do you think you're fighting corruption? It wasn't just news, it was headline news in all the electronic and printed media. Do you understand, Mr. President? That news is fake. That data's been cut. You are required as president of the Assembly to explain to the citizens, to everyone who lives and works in this country, what is true. I repeat, I am asking, and I think it is important that as President of the Assembly with the help of the Secretary-General, you bet that the public gets the right information, to see which really the most expensive ones are MPs who spend the most on both salaries and expenses. You can calculate the monthly average, you can calculate everyone's gross, you can calculate the net, I don't care. In any case, I claim that no LDP MP will be below the centre of that designated list. You have only shown that you continue to deal with the MPs of deception, and the LDP will continue to fight with arguments. He'll fight lies. For us, the truth isn't a parole, it's a need, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15515	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15516	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. Madam Chairman, you've allowed two inadmissible things in this National Assembly. First, addressing ad persona in the sense in which he addresses the MP directly. Secondly, Mr Stefanovic is here as an MP, and not as the chairman, I have no intention of defending him, but he has said enough. Everything to be said to him as an MP, not as president of the assembly at the moment. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure in every way. On the other hand, you're yelling at what's acceptable and legitimate in the way of parliamentary combat, but it's really unpleasant for the ear. Please take care of it in the future, we've just begun the session. As for the responsibilities of the MPs, the moment when either of us accepted to be on the parliamentary list and to enter this assembly hall, he took all the responsibilities and obligations that mean both the public and his work obligations and the way budgets are spent. So I'd like to know what you, me and all of us MPs who used to go on the roads did on those trips? Have we filed reports on our travels, what we have achieved, who we have made contact with, who are the concrete benefits of our work. What are the concrete benefits of our work on committees? My board filed a report on their work. The other boards, as far as I can see, didn't even file a binding report on their work until the end of March. I hope he can handle it. So that kind of demagogy where the question is whether you are the most expensive MP is not a question. That's what you ask, or I won't speak to you personally, that should be asked by an MP who comes in here when all he has to say is something, and it costs this assembly and how. Therefore, ask the head of the parliamentary group, and each of course should bear responsibility for his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15517	I completely agree with you, Mrs Joksimovic. We should really get this session back on the agenda. I'll allow you right to the replica. But I've got more reports, so just tell me if anyone's answering from a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15518	A violation of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, saying that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Today, the draft law on railways is on the agenda, not the character and work of Natasha Micic, so I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure and continue the debate where we left off yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15519	And you're absolutely right, Mrs. Pilla. But I must allow the replica, above all, to Mr Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15520	I won't be long, I just want to say a few things that are related to the publication of cost data, which can be found at this point, so they are regularly on the National Assembly's website on the costs of all the MPs. No information that has come out of this National Assembly has ever been false, nor has the National Assembly given any information about the costs of the National Assembly during the period being discussed, for at that time the National Assembly was not working. Therefore, all data on the costs of the MPs, on their salaries, are publicly, easily available, are on the site and can be obtained at any time on request in the National Assembly. I support all my colleagues who have told us to get back to the debate and these people from the ministry who came here have a lot of important things to do. Let's finish one important railroad law. I think it's much more important for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15521	Does anyone advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15522	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the Assembly. The speaker of the assembly is the speaker of the assembly in this term, 24 hours a day. He's the president of the assembly when he sits there and sits in a parliamentary seat. He cannot hide in the anonymity of the parliamentary group, if he wants to eskiate a clear answer to a clearly asked question. Now I would ask a question to the President of the Assembly – how much did his trip to Indonesia cost, and what are the results of his trip? (President: Mrs Popovic, please let us stick to the Rules of Procedure. You can ask that at some other time, but not right now. ) This is Parliament's dignity when we talk about how much it spends in this country, so be it the President of the Assembly or any official of the state. A clear answer should be given if it is to be honest and there is no abuse of its powers. So how much does Mr. President's trip to Indonesia cost?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15523	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Natasa Micic, a replica of Mr Stefanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15524	Replica is on the presentation of the People's Parliament, Joksimovic. She absolutely didn't understand me. I advocate that everything be transparent and very aware of the fact that I am a national MP and that it is the duty of the assembly service to give accurate and true information about the costs of Parliament. That's why I've asked for all the expenses to be announced, but not by collecting some MPs' salaries and fees, and you'll just cut off the fees and profits from others. That's what it's all about, falsifying data. You advertised the Rules of Procedure to point out Mrs. Vice President's mistake, as I was speaking personally to Mr. President of the Assembly, and then you made a mistake, so you spoke. Look how inconsistencies you are in every way, in every detail. As far as travel costs are concerned, I'm telling you that I haven't spent a single dime on travel abroad for 10 years, and that can be checked. If I've traveled, I've traveled in the direction of international organizations. Therefore, I have no obligation to report to parliament, but this assembly, the assembly's leadership, has an obligation to transparently inform citizens of the functioning and costs of parliament. Today, ladies and gentlemen, May 9th – Victory Day in World War II. Do you know how Hitler first went to parliament? He destroyed the MPs on the 100th page, like vermin. First he had to destroy parliament to go after Jews and the whole world.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15525	The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15526	Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, have been injured. It is unacceptable for someone in the 21st century and today on the day of victory, Europe Day, to compare the Serbian parliament with Nazi Germany. I will remind who burned this parliament and who destroyed this parliament, and who won last year's elections in May. What I would like to remind, on today, one of the greatest European values is the independence of journalism. Does anyone in this country expect anyone from parliament to edit any written or electronic media? What does that look like? Is it dictatorship or democracy? What kind of values do some people stand for here? In addition, if they object to such things, I did not hear in the election campaign that anyone from the LDP stood up and said and rebelled against the disgusting lies and lies that were made both about Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic and the SNS. It didn't bother you at the time, it was a democracy, then it was acceptable. Why didn't you say it was politically incorrect, that these are some things you shouldn't be afraid of, you shouldn't be proud of? No, that's when it suits you. What I'm about to finish, the SNS is nothing but an anonymous, anonymous parliamentary group. As you LDP gentlemen, as anonymous in Belgrade, you become anonymous throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15527	I'm asking if anyone wants to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15528	Madam Vice-President, I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 32, which says that the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who replaces the President at the National Assembly, has the authority of the President of the National Assembly in the Presidency and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's not said here that you have more authority, so please don't let us have this kind of debate that we've had the opportunity to hear in this room. We are here to protect the institution of parliament, no matter who, or how unpleasant associations we are. Parliament certainly does not defend itself by waving a gun in parliament and a hectare in front of parliament and applause for such behaviour. We were witnesses in 1999, and actors of such behaviour are sitting in parliament today. With the right of Mrs Natasa Micic to say that the blow to democratic society is the first blow to parliament, the first blow to democracy is a blow to parliament. Discussing the work of parliament and parliament as an institution, degrade it and drag it through the mud is a clear hint that this practice has not fallen away, regardless of the badge has been removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15529	You're absolutely right. We need to get the debate back on the agenda. The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15530	I'm advertising Article 27. Chairman, I'm really sorry to have to say this again, but somehow it's broken out of your hands. It is true that the reputation of parliament is most important and that the blow to parliament is always the first blow to democracy, but it is also true that unserious behaviour within parliament is somehow always going to make those who are the most loudest, and do so. So I ask you to get back to the agenda, because that's the reputation of Parliament. Because there's a Rules of Procedure exactly what's planned for us to do. The question -- how much was spent on the trip to Indonesia, is being asked in that part after ten o'clock, when it's asking questions, not according to the Rules of Procedure, because then I can ask how much it cost to buy Fidellinka, for example, according to the Rules of Procedure, and not from ten o'clock in the morning when it's time to ask questions. Here, now he throws himself away until I communicate with any MP at all, but I am to you, because I point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can't cause replication. You've been giving replicas to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure because someone spoke directly and has no right to do so. Please, stop this, let's get back to the agenda, because that's Parliament's reputation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15531	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz, you're absolutely right. I'm breaking all the lines, I'm not gonna let the replica. We're going back to the agenda. Who wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Judita Popovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15532	Thank you, Madam Vice President. This concludes this circle of replicas and injuries of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we point out that there is no substitute for thesis, and it cannot be lost in the sight that this is about persecuting a letter. (President: Tell which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. ) Article 107. (President: Rule 107 has already been advertised, do you have any other members of the Rules of Procedure? ) Article 107 and Article 27. (President: And it's advertised. Do you have any other members of the Rules of Procedure? ) This shop has not been advertised. (President: Yes, more than once.) It's not for this shop. So every time the Rules of Procedure gets hurt, that injury can be advertised. It's not for this store. Article 27. - in which way you actually conduct today's session and how you responded to the previous discussion. So there's no place to replace the thesis, that it's about persecuting one of the LDP's MPs. That's one. Two, they can't lecture us on those who had the Minister of Information who brought and implemented that scandalous 1999 Information Act. (President: Mrs Popovic, you abuse the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please... We can't afford to be taught a lesson in dignity by those who... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15533	I've ruled you out, since you're abusing the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anybody else want to go by the Rules of Procedure? Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15534	Madam Chairman, Article 109 of Article 1 indent 6 has been injured), when the National Assembly is addressed by the MP Natasa Micic, and because of the offensive expressions, I cannot say that it is a curse, and because it was shown by the President of the Assembly and the Service of the National Assembly to separate the MPs. In that newspaper article, my name was next to yours. You're the opposition, and my party is in power, so you can't compare it. The fact that a journalist didn't know how to separate what was gross, what was net, is a question for a journalist, not for the president of the assembly. Also, the comparison that we, Malten, are the same party as the National Socialist Party Adolf Hitler, is quite offensive. Because the first strokes on parliament are not now, nor are they happening, we are trying to bring back to Parliament dignity and place in society and in the politics it belongs to, and whoever acted when he was choking on the public word, says the fact that you, as president of the Assembly, expelled from the work of the Assembly of MPs who were not even at the session that day, did not even enter the Assembly building, did not report for the word. You shut me down, I didn't even approach the pay phone. That was in 2003. Is this a dictatorship when the Rules of Procedure prohibits the MP from talking about an amendment that he has not submitted or is not the head of the parliamentary group? (Chairman: Mr. Arsic, please, talk only about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just making a comparison. Or was the fake when the chairman didn't notice that his MP was not there, but that was the vote from Bodrum, and that was exactly what happened when the National Assembly president was Natasa Micic?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15535	Thank you. We keep working on the agenda. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Just sign in, Mr. Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15536	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are before us three legislative proposals, without diminishing the importance and importance of two legislative proposals I will not speak of today. I'd like to start by saying that I'm going to put the accent in my presentation on the draft law on railways. It is a legislative proposal which, September or October 2011, the Republic's Parliament has already held a debate, a debate in principle has been concluded, a debate in particulars has been concluded and for the reasons we talked about during yesterday, this, I would say, quality legislative proposal has not been adopted and has not been taken the first step in regulating an extremely important and important area in Serbia. What I want to say at the very beginning is that, from the moment Parliament was due in 2011 to declare this legislative proposal to date, it seems to me, Minister, that the valuable time for the Serbian railway has been lost. I also think that, at the time that parliament was due to be declared in 2011 on this important legislative proposal, there was no reason enough for parliament not to support this quality law. But I also think it's important that today, when we start discussing the draft law on railways again, we talk about railways as a single continent, as a single system. Of course, it's not acceptable, and it's not good, it's not good, it's not good, it's not good, it's not good, it's not good, it's not good, it's not okay. It's not okay. That's the attitude of the SPS Parliament Club. As we could hear during yesterday's debate, the draft law on railways is a system law and should certainly arrange an extremely important and important area in Serbia, the railway area. The railroad is, I'd say, an extremely complex and complex system. The complexity and complexity of railways as a system stems from the fact that railways are made up of several extremely important and significant components, and here, above all, I mean rail infrastructure, carrying out passenger and goods traffic, infrastructure management and traffic safety, which is regulated by another important law, which is the Transport Safety Act. It is about an important, important, but also an extremely complex and complex area, many open issues and my personal view is that it will be extremely difficult to regulate a complex area with one law, however much it is at this point, looking at its content, is sufficiently good. This legislative proposal, it is indisputable, offers a number of new and quite good solutions, but there are some procedures, some processes, procedures, details that I think would be better if we subsequently established them by sublegal acts. Certainly the positive side of the legislative proposal is that it covers public railway infrastructure management, as we could hear during yesterday's debate, separates infrastructure management from the organisation of goods and passengers transport, as well as public transport and transport for its own purposes. Also, I would say that this legislative proposal, in a perfectly clear and precise way, defines the concept of rail infrastructure in a traffic and technical sense, and that is an important assumption to separate the activity of infrastructure management from commercial transactions in the organisation of goods and passengers transport. The law separates and divides infrastructure into public and industrial railways, in terms of its openness to use from all potentially interested users. The railway infrastructure, which was mentioned yesterday, has a good status in general and is owned by the Republic of Serbia, which is, at the very beginning, extremely important and is generally accepted in Europe. I think the last law, correct me if I'm wrong, is about the railroad adopted in 2005. So six years after the adoption of the current Railway Act, a new legislative proposal was joined. It is another argument, another fact that speaks in favour of the finding that it is a living and extremely complex matter and that it will still take time for this matter and the area to be clearly regulated. What I also want to point out as extremely positive is the operationalisation of European standards and directives, their implementation, their application to our system, with the goal of which you, during yesterday's day, Ministers, said that our railways were part of the European rail system. This should be the goal, and we believe that this legislative proposal goes and steps towards the realization of that goal. We also believe that all those shortcomings that have been detected will be removed when it comes to the current legislative proposal. We believe that this law that we are talking about today is good for the railways today, but it is good for the railways in the perspective, that is, for the future of the Serbian railway. What is it that we expect as a Parliament club when it comes to this bill? Above all, we expect a clearer position in Serbia's rail system and when it comes to infrastructure and when it comes to organisation of goods and passenger transport, the openness of our rail network in Serbia, greater use by interested users from Europe, as well as more rational and commercial, but also more efficient and efficient systems. These are the expectations of the parliamentary club when it comes to this bill. We also believe that the promoter did well when he decided that the observed shortcomings in the current law do not correct through changes and additions, but through the making of a new legislative proposal, so that its application is made both more practical and efficient. I said this law provides some kind of new good solution. I just want to point out one that I think is positive and that they are extremely significant. First, the adoption of a national railway infrastructure programme now becomes a legal obligation. Personally, I think that this is extremely important and extremely important, especially if we want to take advantage of both economic and developmental opportunities that Serbia has as one of the important railway crossings in Europe. So we have to strategically identify what kind of railroad we want, whether the one from the 19th century or the 21st century railroad. The adoption of such a programme will allow us to define clear objectives, obligations, and the responsibilities of all entities, with the intention of primarily modernising the railway lines in Serbia. When I say modernising the railway lines in Serbia, you won't mind me coming from Kolubar County, from the city of Valjev, of course I mean, first of all, the end of the Valjevo-Loznica railroad. Given that we are talking today about the draft law on railways, I will take the opportunity to finally ask a few questions regarding the completion of the Valjevo-Loznica railway. Of course I'm also thinking about ending a railway knot in Belgrade. Of course I also think of the complete modernisation of the railway corridor through Serbia, the modernisation of the Bar Line, the electrification of the railroad in the royal region and in Vojvodina. So the successful realization of this venture should provide a good place for Serbia on the railway transport market. Otherwise, unfortunately, I think this kind of transport, at least in our country, will be replaced by some other transport. When I tell someone else, of course, first of all, I mean road and water traffic. I think it would be a huge shame for Serbia, because Serbia has a good chance of being in rail transport a single traffic spine that will connect Central Europe with the southeast, where the traffic of goods and people will move to the greatest extent in the next period of time. I think we have to take that chance as a state, and we need to take advantage of it. Also, what is positive when it comes to this law is that the law clearly defines public transport of passengers and goods in rail transport, establishes rights and obligations, which you have spoken about, companies that can appear as carriers, which again provides in some way appropriate normative conditions for greater use of existing rail capacities, which is extremely important. Therefore, it remains clear that transport in rail transport is of interest to urban, suburban, regional and remote transport of passengers and such solutions create conditions for many new entities that can take part in organising this transport and contribute, which is important, to popularising and using this mode of transport as very economically efficient and financially profitable. Affirmation and popularization will only be possible if we create some conditions. When I say some conditions, I mean restructuring, better organisation, but above all, the better position of our national company "The Railway of Serbia". I also want to say that without great support from the state, it will not be possible to realise it. First of all, state support when it comes to debt, when it comes to development, when it comes to means of transport. So without it, there is no successful recovery of the national company. Every year, I think that we extract about 10 billion or more dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget on an annual basis. Very often you can hear the opinions that this is a lot of financial resources, but the European experience of railways shows that there is no successful recovery without major investment, in particular there is no recovery of "Serb Railways", if we are realistic and we are realistic about the situation in which the railways are located today, and above all I mean the railways, I mean the equipment that has been enormously and very long. It is true, unfortunately, that I say unfortunately because today we are talking about the draft law on railways, investment in the travel economy, I am not reducing the importance of projects in the area of travel economy, but it is true that investment in the road economy is several times higher than investment in the modernisation of railways. We are convinced that this legislative proposal creates somewhat different assumptions, that it creates a slightly different base and that it will foster greater investment in railways and vehicles. A number of experiences behind us have shown that we in Serbia can reduce the number of employees if necessary and I think that the railways have done so significantly over the past period of time. A number of experiences in Serbia show that we can also conduct rationalisations, although you, ministers, have always been somehow opposed to rationalisation, but we can carry out the rationalisations that are necessary. But to be clear, if there is no investment on the railways, we will not be able to recover the national company, investment and support of the state. Serbia's railways, I repeat, are also very important for the state, for the economy, but also for the citizens. I want to say, when it comes to this legislative proposal, that I still think there are certain encouraging solutions and therefore, of course, we will, which is absolutely not controversial, in the day of voting to support this legislative proposal. Therefore, the responsibility relating to the transport of passengers of goods from liability to infrastructure is separate, and that is the first and basic assumption that we make this system more efficient. Also, I want to say that it's a good solution that in a clear way, I would say, defines both the status and business of the Railway Directorate. The role of the Directorate in regulating market conditions and jobs in the area and safety of rail transport is extremely high and it is therefore important that this legislative proposal also gives the railways obligations, but also the responsibility to continue to deal with the regulation of certain issues in the area of the railway system. Of course, I will repeat, we have absolutely not questioned any moment, we certainly believe that this legislative proposal in the voting day should and must be adopted this time. In the course of the presentation, I said that I would eventually take the opportunity to, since I am talking about the Law on Railways, since it is somehow my obligation to bear in mind that I come from Kolubar County and the city of Valjev, so simply, Mr. Minister, I wanted to share some thoughts with you, although I know about what your answer will be and ask you a few questions, and it concerns exactly investment in building infrastructure facilities in rail traffic. In fact, we had opportunities about a month or a month or a half ago to get to know each other, but I will point out, primarily through the public, that possible changes in investment in the construction of infrastructure facilities in rail traffic are being considered. According to the information at the time, it is also in the process to consider giving up the construction, i.e. the completion of the Valjevo-Loznica railway, which would be financed by the credit arrangement of the Republic of Serbia with Russia. Mr. Minister, I have no reason to tell you about the importance of the Valjevo-Loznica railway, and for the sake of the public, I have to say, economic justification and rentability studies of this railroad, you know that, done several times. Each study showed the basis for the Belgrade Economic Institute's thesis that this railway has one of the highest rates of rentability in Europe and that investment in the Valjevo-Loznica railway will be paid in less than 10 years of exploitation. When we talk about meaning, I need some more facts to point out. So building the Valjevo-Loznica railway by connecting it with the Tuzla-Loznica railway significantly reduces the way of BiH goods, towards Macedonia and the Middle East. Also, the Valjevo railway – Loznica is an integral part of the southern Sava highway from Slovenia via Croatia and Republika Srpska to Serbia, and its completion would significantly shorten Western Serbia's roads to Bar, Macedonia and Greece. On a rail that is 1,000 kilometers from the Italian border to the Greek border which is an integral part of Corridor 10 you know there is only 68 kilometers of route from Valjev to Loznica. Studies by EU countries show that passenger traffic on the railway corridor 10 whose component is the railway and this track is extremely rapidly developing and competitive, which is important, as I repeat today's proposal for a railway law, will be competitive with road traffic. The significance of this railway is seen among other things in the fact that this railway is part of the Shabac-Valjevo-Loznica-Požega route for freight traffic around Belgrade. So by building it, the capital would be free of a significant part of freight traffic. On the other side of the Valjevo-Loznica track passes through the Valjevska Podgorina, Azukovica, these are all poorly developed agricultural industrial areas for which progress is needed primarily modern traffic infrastructure. You know, it's your thesis, there's no economics without infrastructure development. In this area because of the configuration of the terrain, there is no possibility of construction of road traffic. So there's no alternative for a train station and a railway line. Also, the municipalities of Osecina and Krupanj, we visited these municipalities together, we talked to the locals of these municipalities, you saw that they fall into the order of undeveloped municipalities in this area, and I don't need to tell you what the construction site would mean for these municipalities. To reduce unemployment, to reduce population drains from these underdeveloped municipalities. Such positive movements would continue even after the construction of this circular direction in the rail exploitation process, which would certainly give one significant impulse to the development of not only these municipalities but also the development of Valjev, Loznica, Ljubovije, Mali Zvornik and other local self-government in this area. In previous development projects, if we analyze current development projects in Serbia, and you have certainly done this in a qualified way, I have looked at it in a layman's way, so by doing this we can see that the main investments in infrastructure projects were mostly heading north- south, and they were almost not in the directions connecting east and west, which has significantly affected the imbalance of our country's development. The construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway would certainly ensure the conditions of a balanced development of this area, and I think that the government's intensity of the Republic of Serbia is even regional development, that each municipality, that each city has the same chance. Mr. Minister, I have no intention of talking about the importance anymore, this is what I had to say to the public about the importance and importance of the Valjevo-Loznica railway. What we know, as an MP and as a citizen, is that the Assembly of Railways adopted the programme, that the programme was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the programme very clearly defined the Valjevo-Loznica railway. My question is, has there been any changes in the meantime, and you need to know that because every change must come from you as a resolute ministry, has there been any changes and will the construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15537	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15538	I thank Ambassador Milicevic for this question. As far as the law goes, I have no comment because he made a perfectly good comment. But yesterday, several times, a question of misunderstandings over projects to be built from a Russian loan to explain, very briefly. The government of the Republic of Serbia has already had similar experience in the former term. For Corridor 10, all European banks, therefore, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the World Bank are interested, and the most favourable loans are there. That's how we got the travel corridors 10. It's the same situation now with rail corridor 10. We are already talking about these banks being involved in the realisation of these projects, these are projects of European importance, all else to say, no offense from local character or regional character. Belgrade, so Cacak, for example, the most burdensome share of our roads today has no support from these European and global banks, but we have defined ourselves to go to commercial loans from states or businesses. So the first project was a Chinese bridge, the second project was Russian loans, the third project was a Czech loan, etc. Why? The first reason is that we provide funds for projects under about the same conditions as these two European banks and the World Bank. Of course, we haven't reached the same level of interest everywhere, but we are here because our goal was to hire what Comrade Milicevic said to hire our businesses. That's the first condition. The second condition was that in commercial negotiations with countries we can achieve greater participation of our companies because tenders that are being called by the European and World Bank models are very rigorous. That's what I have to say, unfortunately, our companies at least in this first stage on Corridor 10, by the way, have failed to meet these conditions and only perhaps on one or two shares have our businesses come up first. So it wouldn't have happened with the railroad we entered this project we're talking about right now. So, the commercial loans of the state create conditions to discuss the greater participation of our companies and all three, four of these loans, from the Chinese bridge to the Russian loan, we have achieved that our businesses participate up to 50% in the realisation of these transactions. The second thing, which is very important, the World Bank and European banks do not participate in projects that have already begun. Unfortunately, what Comrade Dacic says - I'm not here to say nothing but nice things. Since I've been in this business for a long time and, of course, I'm responsible, we've started a lot of projects, and we haven't finished, and there's a very difficult involvement of these banks. Commercial banks have greater flexibility by including in such projects. One of these projects is the Valjevo-Loznica railway project that started to be built and 30% to 40% of the railway was done and now the work needs to be continued. The Belgrade Node, also located on the Corridor and a very important facility, has been done more than both world and European banks should enter the project. So we need to look for commercial loans and that's exactly what this Russian loan is, he's giving us that chance. Another very important thing when we talk about the Russian loan, about half the funds, about not taking my word in numbers, we can also talk about it if someone has a special interest, more than half the funds go on equipment. Russian equipment is good to follow all trends in world equipment, you've seen Russian trains and that's what's favourable. So the construction work would be done by our companies, the equipment would be Russian. This is why we are talking today because we have complete project documentation specifically for the Valjevo-Loznica railway. For the track on Corridor 10 from Belgrade to Novi Sad, we do not have complete project documentation and therefore I will be on the line until the end, and the end will be in two weeks when the contract with Russian railways is signed that both Valjevo and Loznica remain in the project, so let's see if we can finish the projects on Corridor 10 at a certain time we will be doing this job, if not, surely the Valjevo-Loznica railway which is in the second priority will not stay out of what I'm talking about right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15539	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15540	Dear Minister, Madam Chairman, we have heard a lot of debate and a lot of discussions from our colleagues who have said that the new railway law should solve the basic problems that this activity has, and we will all agree that "the railways of Serbia" are in very big trouble and that through this law it can create a basis for solving these problems, but the result will depend on how much money it will really be to solve these things in the right way. Whenever we talk about an area, about a law that needs to solve the problems that arise in that area, we need to look back at the context in which we move and in which we speak. So one of the reasons for the adoption of this law, it says, and in the explanation was that the Law on Railways should be brought into line with European directives. I think it may be one of the motives, but it certainly should and must always be a motive for passing some new law, to sort out a situation in a particular area, not a dictatorship that we have to pass some law because Europe or anyone else is asking us to. So, enough of that subpartial mentality in every area. Whatever law we pass, it is always the first emphasis to comply with European legislation. Let's solve it, let's pass some law, solve some problem in some area, reduce more of that courtship's behaviour towards dictatorships. The second thing, when we talk about problems in the railways, we need to look back at what our situation is like in the railways. There were a lot of stories here in yesterday's debate about what problems the railways are facing today. I'm always in a dilemma when it comes to laws like this, when I'm supposed to have my own attitude on whether to base my attitude on what the ministers who ran a certain area for the past 15, 20, 30 years or to believe my own eyes and to have my own judgment based on what I see. If you were to act in the first way of assessing problems in a particular area, I'd probably have a completely different picture than she is. It's been since the 1990s on here in the last 30 years a lot of praises and stories about what's going on on the railroad, what are the plans for the railroad? We had famous high-speed railway projects from 1992 to 1996. I remember correctly, I was a student activist at the time, and I collected these pamphlets that the regime had shared over the years, I don't know, in 1992 will be done until Paracino, in 1993 to Nis, in 1994 to Piroth, in 1995 to Dimitrovgrad, in order to complete the project of Serbia's high-speed railways in 1996. If he had his own court of law, we today have virtually no problems in the railways. Unfortunately, the situation is completely different, not to say it's desperate, but the illustration that the average speed on our tracks is 44km per hour, which is less than a thousand eighty-eighty-seven, when the first track of Belgrade-Nish was made. It's really devastating for all of our society. For the whole country, it is a devastating fact that once, 120 years ago, it travelled faster from Belgrade to Nis with Serbia's main rail spine than it seems today. Investments in infrastructure, primarily in the quality of the railway, have been minimal for the past tens of years, perhaps more. That's why the situation is the way it is. The state each year costs Serbia railways, depending on the years, but between 120m and 200m euros. Unfortunately, these subsidies granted by the state to the Serbian railways went to the lowest percentage of investment in infrastructure, to improve the quality of the railways, to the quality of the vehicles, and much more went to death, i.e. dead capital, to pay the wages, to pay the costs, because today the railway was a very inert system, a very bulky system, a very inefficient system, a very irrational system, with too many people, with a terriblely bad organisation, and as such, unfortunately, it cannot bring either good service, nor profit from what it does. The data that can also be illustrating is that in addition to Serbia being on the track of the most important or most important corridors in Southeast Europe, Corridor 10, where it can have phenomenal revenues from transit, primarily from Western Europe towards the Middle East and vice versa, that capacity uses so little, that total revenues from transit of goods are barely around 70m euros. That's the 2010 data, it's probably less revenue today. If our railways were far better and better quality, if they could achieve higher speeds, if there were no delays and if they were not paid to climb towards international freighters, they would probably exceed 300m euros, which would significantly free the Railway from the dependence of state subsidies and perhaps make it a profitable company. That is not the case, and we should all ask ourselves why the state does not, through its national development strategy, determine what is the most qualitative priority that can contribute to the country's development and to the increase of foreign exchange inflows. It's definitely highway networks, it's certainly a high-quality rail corridor across the country. It is completely unclear to me that if things are as they are, this famous National Council for Infrastructure, the previous Government has formed, that these priorities have not been clearly established and that the dynamics of works are not respected. I remember well, dozens of statements were made by various officials, including yours, that Corridor 10 highways to Bulgaria will be completed towards Macedonia by the end of 2012, i.e. by the end of the mandate of the previous government. The situation today in the field is devastating. It's starting to work, it's a very high-quality fact, but it's working on a few of the shares torn apart and according to this kind of dynamic, I doubt it can be complete in the next four or five years. The saddest thing is that part of the highway made from the Macedonian border to Levos and some 20km in length, in the most part was completed in 2007, and until today, it was not allowed to work fully, to operate in both strips. So five years, six years, we almost can't put that section of the road into operation. Is that possible? Macedonians began working their part of the road towards Kumanov in 2009, finished it long ago, it has been functioning for more than three years. What's with our country? What is it with the people who run these jobs? What's the problem? The law, which aims to address the problems of inefficient functioning of the "Serb Railway", envisions the separation of four sectors, infrastructure, passenger and goods traffic and property. Infrastructure is something of public interest, so it's defined by law and it certainly doesn't occur to anyone to leave the management of that infrastructure to someone else. It must be a public company, and it refers to the infrastructure as the hosts do to their assets, that investment in these infrastructures is significant, in order to ensure the quality of transport, and that, of course, the revenues that will come, if there is an investment in that infrastructure, from transit go to the state, not to go to the private company. I think it's of national interest, that no one else can put it. As for passenger and goods traffic, he is indeed, especially, in a terrible condition. Yesterday, Mr. Angelkovic here said that rail revenues in passenger traffic are barely around 1/3, and in passenger traffic most of the waste is over 2/3 of the BEO Train revenue. Of course, the biggest revenues from the BEO Train, because both investment in Belgrade railways and the BEO Train was the biggest. There are the most modern railways, there are the most trains, the timetable is extremely high quality, there are many departures and of course there will be revenues. You cannot expect that there will be revenues in the passenger traffic between Belgrade and Nis when travelling more than five or six hours and when you have one train a day. So, one absence of desire to make even growth in this area. Everything about the quality of the railway is placed in Belgrade, as is unfortunately in other areas. New investment is also foreseen here in the law, that there will be a national railway development programme that will determine in a five-year and ten-year plan what everything will be and on which routes to invest. Unfortunately, again I hear from you, both in previous years and today, that the projects for the railway node have been completed, that the projects for the Belgrade-Panchevo railway line, Belgrade-Novi Sad, Paz, and the story of investing in Corridor 10, of the removal of freight and passenger traffic from the centre of Nis, of these famous 12km railways, has not been removed from place for 30 years. That's what we've been through more than once here in parliament and we've come up with five years of fighting and various debates in parliament that this year will only be a tender for an idea project of those 12km railways, which will end in autumn, and then we'll be working for two years, and after the idea project we'll be doing another five or ten years of the main project, and the realization of who knows when. If such a dynamic had been built by the king, it would not have been completed in 200 years. I think this relationship is inadmissible. I ask you to behave completely differently when it comes to investment in infrastructure, both travel and rail and not to concentrate it all in the capital and 50 km around it, but to evenly deploy those funds from the point of view of the country's development and national strategy and to invest first and foremost in the most profitable parts, and these are the parts of the corridor towards Bulgaria and Greece, because it will return the money first. On the other hand, it will maintain both the population and the cities that are next to these corridors and will be able to develop in a quality way. As for the support of this law, we have written more than 20 amendments, so in accordance with how you treat these amendments, that will be our attitude towards the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15541	National MP Stefan Zankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15542	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the main objective of adopting a new railway law in a strategic sense is to improve the efficiency of the railway system in Serbia and its integration into the transport services market, and in the perspective and preparedness for the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system. In this respect, the basic problems that the law needs to address are: a closed and underdeveloped market for rail services with no competition, which immediately causes an inefficient system, and this further leads to a growing number of transported passengers and goods, increased travel and transport times and all of this with high dependence on budgetary subsidies. The delay in restructuring the entire rail transport system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has led to incompatibility with the rails of the countries in the environment, not to mention incompatibility with EU railways, resulting in minimal and insufficient investment in such an inefficient railway, even to maintain the functionality of the system. The restructuring of this complex system provides for several basic aspects. First, the Serbian government's decision to reorganise a public company in the Zeleznica Serbia stock company, which should allow for more efficient work and business in market conditions, as rail infrastructure is separated from passenger and goods transport. Secondly, the adoption of laws that will create the necessary environment for the work and business of a new company that will deal with rail traffic and rail traffic in general make it more competitive than other types of traffic. Third, more serious investments that are beginning to take place only in the term of office of this government, keeping the state committed and responsible for the development of adequate infrastructure. Fourthly, the rational management that needs to increase the number of passengers, effectively increase revenues and reduce dependence on state aid because they have been acting in line with the foreign exchange so far – the less I do, the more the state will give me and we don't care. The time has passed and the new management has taken the only right path I've talked about has a strategy to implement along with the Serbian government. In all of this, the most important thing is to make sure that work is provided for workers, I deliberately do not say for employees but I am using the word workers and people working on the railway will understand that, not to reduce their number because it is generally the most important thing for us today and we do not need to repeat the mistakes and experiences from Romania and Slovenia. On the other hand, it is necessary to prevent the influence of political parties through various names of trade union leaders who are not, because they are not fighting for workers' rights, but rather for the influence of management that is important to them because of unnecessary employment, and that has taken hold, while people who really work do not have the basic means to work. Everyone knows it's true and the new management should have full support to deal with these illogicalities that cause negative phenomena in the company. As for compliance with EU regulations and situations, especially with environmental members, it is our obligation at this time to learn from their experiences, particularly negative, unfortunately not to repeat their mistakes, but to try to raise quality and reach those standards that we convince when we drive on our rails. Everything else we will coordinate and resolve until the moment our European perspective is certain to the end. First of all, I think of the dilemma at which point to enable other companies to be established for the transport of passengers and cargo, i.e. their business. So, we have until that moment, and we need to strengthen, above all, the state-owned enterprise to welcome competition in the competition. In addition, it is clear that when it comes to high-profit businesses such as telecommunications or electricity, the monopoly of the state is mostly devastating and produces only losses, which ultimately leads to the failure of the entire system, and that is the most important. It is also very important to pass the safety law of rail transport as soon as possible, because this law makes one whole, and the question is whether a rail law can be applied in full capacity without it. All this is important because the reality today and the state that has reached the new management is not good. These positive shifts that the new management has made in a few months will be spoken by my colleagues, and I will talk about what has been so far, in order to honor the time and other speakers. The closure of traffic through Serbia and the payment of pens, which results in a circumvention of Corridor 10 as the shortest route from Western Europe to the Middle East and a shift of transport via Romania and Bulgaria, is causing major economic damage to our country, as in the end, rail stories are important for Serbia's overall economy. Also, many trains for passenger transport are cancelled years ago, so-called. light driving, etc. The situation in Timoko province is incomparably more difficult than the average in Serbia. I've talked to Parliament about it before. The first track of the normal track was released in 1914. Then on the team tracks, believe it or not, there were more trains that were trafficking at higher speeds than today, after 100 years. This situation occurred because no single dinar was invested in the railway, and maintenance funds themselves were seriously questioned. Because of all this, here are some data that are really extremely problematic: at the part of the Zaječar-Niš railway in the length of 114 km was 68 km of light driving and the train traveled for more than three hours. The freight train's turn on the same route lasted over 16 hours. In other directions, traffic has been completely shut down. It should be noted that in this part of Serbia there are systems such as RTB Bor, factories and ports in Prahovo, and their needs for the transport of goods are large and will be even greater in the coming period. They will move on to alternative cargo transport because it happened on this area that there are not a single freight train tow locomotives that stand and for which the railway pays for the foam. Those foams completely eat the profit of their transportation. Not only has traffic been brought to a collapse, but care is at risk and traffic safety. Practically, all the stripes covered by the steel knot became one big 30km [30 km] per hour due to decades of rear behaviour. That is why changes are necessary within the company itself towards traffic in this part of Serbia and towards the Zagreb railway node. First of all, an honest relationship based on trust to see whose interest it is. Because of all that I have cited both state and local interest the companies themselves would provide for the future, and I think that the total abolition of rail traffic in this part of Serbia is not the end of anyone's mind. So we need to establish clean bill relations without a lot of big words. With that in mind, I'd like to say that the new railway management has promised to solve the problem and we will continue to work together, I mean the participation of local self-government, right after the extraordinary local elections to be held in Zajecar. As I said, therefore, that everyone from their position to contribute to the solution to this difficult situation. As part of my presentation, on the one hand, I presented the legal frameworks concerning competition of the market, infrastructure management, etc., which is why the law needs to be adopted, and on the other hand I spoke to the average railway image in Serbia today to the most difficult situation, which, therefore, is in Timoko Krajina. The future reality is probably somewhere in between, but we need to move forward and slowly on these issues, but we need to keep moving forward. The objective citizens do not expect that, as in Switzerland, transit of goods is mainly carried out by rail due to pollution, noise, storage of travel infrastructure or as in Germany, for example, the railways have a monopoly on the transport of passengers in certain relations, but expect the state to manage this important system, so as to establish a financially sustainable system that will guarantee the achievement of the minimum and state and the interests of employees and users of services in this segment in the next period. In this respect, both the government and the railway management have SNS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15543	National MP Siniša Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15544	Thank you. Your Honor, in my discussion, I'd like to look back on a few aspects. The first is, of course, the law that is the subject of this today's assembly, and the second is general infrastructure, because I believe that these two things cannot be separated and that the railway is only part of the total infrastructure that exists in the Republic of Serbia. The basic idea of this law is, above all, the liberalisation of the railway system and the railway transport market. The idea is somewhat anological with road transport, and by organisation and concepts it is closer to river transport. There are infrastructures, roads, rivers, vehicles, trucks, buses, boats, barges moving along those roads. The movement of the vehicle by infrastructure shall be tariffd. In road transport, tolls are paid for access to certain infrastructure. In road traffic, however, the relationship of mobile road vehicles is independent, while in railways it is exclusively dependent. The movement of one rail asset by infrastructure is entirely dependent on the movement of another, etc. The basis for organising the movement of railways is a spatial time diagram or order of driving. All right, the ride is precisely defined at what time and where the railway is busy by means of a vehicle. This space time distribution is a path. In the context of railways, it works by driving trains, and they are practically managed by train dispatchers that define the way they move. Because of this fact, the route must be determined in advance. In the proposal for a new law, the focus is on the distribution of the route. The main players are infrastructure managers and operators, as well as in road transport. A large number of domestic and foreign carriers are in passenger traffic, freight and transport. The aim of the law is to enable infrastructure to be attended by other operators, railway undertakings, domestic and foreign under equal conditions and to liberalise the railway transport market. The members of the law to be analysed are art. 3, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26, 35, 40, 41 and 42. I wouldn't read every single one of them, you're the bill promoter, and I'm sure you know what it says. Article 21 explicitly states that where the route is granted to the applicant a request which is not a railway undertaking. The relationship between members 21 and 26 introduces confusion in the process of assigning the route. There is a space left for a mediator, who is called the applicant in law and who cannot trade routes under the law. However, these members of the law allow the formation of various cartels on the rail-transport market. In Article 3, the requirement is defined by a railway undertaking, a railway undertaking for its own use, a consignor or a freighter. Why wasn't the recipient of the goods classified in this part of Article 3? It is known the ratio of imports and exports to Serbia and that we have a deficit in the trade exchange. According to this position in the bill, our importers and recipients of goods cannot be applicants of the application for a course. In the supply of goods from imports, foreign companies who, as a consignor of goods, are favoured to foreign companies, with the right of applicants, will surely pre-engage a foreign railway operator rather than a domestic one. Why does Article 21 say – in the case where the train route is granted to the applicant a requirement which is not a railway undertaking or railway undertaking for its own purposes when it could have been written – in the case where the train route is assigned to the consignor or the freighter? In accordance with Article 3 defined by applicants, we receive the same subset of applicants. However, Article 26 of the Law prohibits a railway undertaking or a railway undertaking for its own use, but does not prohibit a freight forwarder and a consignor. This favours outside-trade partners and inhibits a national operator who can carry out a route transfer. In particular, it should be pointed out that the route transfer bans the railway carrier for its own purposes, which are enterprises in the territory of Serbia that have an industrial track and which are most often procedurally linked to rail transport. Why is the distribution of the route inhibited and favored by foreign freighters in Serbia's territory? Legally prohibited trade in routes, that's Article 26. The applicant does not have to trade routes, he can provide a special contract with the railway carrier with the lease route, and contracts with profit participation can be realised with the freight forwarders. The basic principle of the law is not to discriminate against the conditions for all interested participants in the distribution of the railway market. National interest and national operators are not favored here. It doesn't matter if state operators or domestic, private, operators. Foreign suppliers, foreign operators and foreign operators are favoured, partly domestic, freighters. In particular, it is indicative that the applicant by law is not directed at the user of the railway undertaking, but is directed at the railway carrier which is engaged by the applicant. The applicant becomes a kind of concessionary on undefined terms. He can assign in law, he writes transmitted, but no transfer terms have been defined. Thus, the applicant can also be a representative of a competitive production system and get routes fully inhibited by one of our producers or distributors based on rail transport. Pursuant to Article 35, the applicant shall have no prescribed conditions and mandatory market activation of the route. The applicant does not have to engage a railway undertaking under the law and cannot invent a variety of reasons why he cannot engage, especially if the adoption of a safety law in railway transport is not at hand. Yesterday you said it was expected to happen very quickly and that the deficit would be eliminated. Also, the applicant shall pay a fee of no use for the application to receive the route, as referred to in Article 35. The amount of this fee has not been defined. What happens if the applicant gets a request, like a freighter, comes from a competitive system, like road traffic. This gives us the opportunity to establish a regional rail monopoly. Due to the poor condition of our railway network, certain parts of the network have extremely small capacities. These capacities can be distributed by a small number of routes. The total amount for the reservation of the route in the formation of a monopoly environment represents investments. When rails are inhibited in a monopoly environment, road transport generates extreme profits. In law, this situation is called – a clogged infrastructure. This phenomenon in law is dedicated to special attention, in most members. According to speed parameters, axle loads, safety equipment status etc., railway system infrastructure has long been suppressed. Assignment of the route under conditions of suppressed infrastructure, pursuant to Article 40. The bill must be implemented in five days, and for the regular allocation of the route, under Article 20, the application must be made 12 months, no later than 10 months earlier. In Serbia's conditions, we consider only the distribution of agricultural products that serious operators and distributors of agricultural products will, for a year, diversify the routes in advance, when it is not known what kind of corn or cereals are. This attitude towards the routes is not a stimulating series of freight businesses, nor for citizens in passenger traffic. The bill is detimulative for rail users and manufacturers. The bill is not stimulating for railway operators. The bill is stimulating for freighters in our terms of the consumption deficit. If this is added to an excessive number of railways directors, and especially since the Directorate regulates the operation of infrastructure managers and carriers, with the proven consent of the law to freighters, there is plenty of room left for mixing routes. As a result, the proposed law in some parts is contrary to European directives. In a country with developed railways, the right to access the route has large users of rail services, and these are primarily rail carriers for their own purposes. These are enterprises operating in Serbia. The ownership of these companies can also be based on foreign capital, but as they employ workers in Serbia, how they pay taxes in Serbia, if they are not already favored, it would be good not to at least inhibit them. Generally, if the bill is adopted, there will be an inert railway transport market. It should be reminded of the high correlation between the degree of economic development of European countries and the development of the rail system in these countries. These are some attitudes. Of course, I'm no expert in this area, but the attitudes I've been trying to get from people who deal with this topic and the issues, and I think our country generally needs a national plan that you were also talking about yesterday. I completely agree with you, but I don't agree with that part that the national plan should last five years. We need a national plan that will last for 30 years, where we will finally do an exact analysis of what we have first of all in this country, what are the resources, which exist and what is where we can make a certain balance in the development of infrastructure that is the basic condition of the development of this country's economy. I'm sure you've spent your entire working life in infrastructure, and I'm sure you're a man with a lot of experience, and often you're the victim of certain political agreements and negotiations where you can't impose just the attitudes of the profession, and it's just often a sacrifice and a concession for some movement in our country. I have the impression that over the past 20 years we've been spinning around with infrastructure and we've made a very little shift. If we take the neighbouring Croatia, they have completed the Belgrade-Split highway in two years, done all these works, brought it to an end, and we have been building loops at Novi Sad for four or five years, with certain problems. If we take the situation that JP Roads of Serbia is a responsible person, and some designer is responsible for the lack of money, and when someone gets hurt there, then the only responsible director is JP Paths of Serbia, something is not good somewhere. We can't collectively decide and have individual responsibility in such systems. When I talk about equality, I think, in terms of the economic situation of this country, the railway should be favoured against road traffic, especially because there are defined corridors and these corridors don't have to be expropriated land and that's already one savings. Another thing, if we think about the priorities of building infrastructure, why someone doesn't write a story and say – Montenegro's market is 600,000 people, for Montenegro there is a Belgrade-Bar railway, there is a road reserved for motor vehicle traffic, there is air transport. Then why is someone pushing the idea that we should build a highway to Montenegro? That's so exact data, that in putting priorities together, regardless of some political interests that exist, we all want a good path past our house, but if we want this society to go in some direction, then these things have to be respected somewhere. I come from West-Babe County, for example, there are large industrial systems, there are two sugars, there's an industry of building materials, there's breweries, there's milkers, there's a battery factory, there's a huge system. If you carry several hundred thousand tons of sugar tail in the fall season, the road structure can't handle that transport. We come to the fact that on the road between the Tower and the Vrbs, you have seven thousand overruns, which almost has elements to build the highway. If every one of those sugars has an industrial track, railways, I guess it makes sense that this country buys two small locomotives to transport. There's a concrete prism in every village that fits the tail and drives to the sugar shop. Simply, some frameworks, in terms of infrastructure in this country, would have to be one consensus about it, and I think that you, personally, by your authority, by professors, from people in the profession, from people in traffic security, need to create a national plan to solve infrastructure problems in this country. So when you're looking at this story, you have parallel construction of some corridors, some systems, multiplication of some systems, and on the other hand you have a total devasting somewhere, where there are economic assumptions that it's a quality infrastructure. If there are 250,000 hectares of farmland in the Western-Baba District, if two highways, one through Hungary, one through Croatia, come to the borders of our country, then it is probably the elementary level of decency to build a decent customs crossing, it is polite to make one road reserved for the traffic of motor vehicles that will reach Sombora, it is appropriate that at least one motor train to establish on the route between Novi Sad and Vrbba and Somboro, and not that, when I pass through the Vrbas or through the Odjaks and when the ramp is down, we do not know whether the ramp is down because the train is actually going to arrive or because the mechanism or automatics that should open it. The other day, I was standing on my way to Wrabbas, where at some point a man on a bicycle showed up, walked into a metal house, unblocked that ramp so people could pass. I simply think that the Law on Railways cannot be excluded from one context of the overall solution of infrastructure in our country, and I think that, if we are talking about equality of development, creating assumptions later on and for some social responsibility, we must create conditions to create some money that we will later place in those undeveloped, less potent areas where there are certain conditions. If you now take the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia and realize that there are around 8 billion euros in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia, that all local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia spend something below two billion, and that some of the decisions on the categorisation of roads have been passed on today, that these powers should be managed by local self-government, if the Minister of Regional Development, Ms Kalanovic, has stated that in this financial year we will have the means to maintain these roads, cut grass, etc., until today is not transferred. What's it going to come up with anyway? What's it gonna look like to the end? I simply believe that there is much more to talk about, much more respect for the arguments and reaching one agreement on what are ultimately priorities in this country. Is it the priority of this country's port Bar, or is it entirely all the same to you if we're going to drive that to Ploche? These are serious questions that we need to discuss. You remember for sure how the Belgrade-Bar railroad was built. I claim there is no society today that is able to cut off the Belgrade-Bar track. It's gone, and we used to have engineers doing it with sticks and ropes and designing a project that I believe is one of the few, not in Europe, in the world. We're not able to keep it functional, not build a new one, but keep it functional. We're in no condition to put the bank down, paint properly, set up signalling properly, and move along these roads in a safe and decent way. In terms of this, I think that if the spatial plan was a basic document, then let's also agree in these priorities on some order of activity that is necessary for this country's infrastructure to finally get some frameworks, let's say that for 30 years here we have a decent infrastructure where, above all, we will move safely and get from point A to point B alive and healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15545	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15546	I thank Mr Lazic, because he is in the hall, and these two MPs are not here before, Milan Lapcevic and Stefan Zankov. Of course, their analysis of the law is, in my opinion, good and right. Mrs. Milan Lapcevic and Stefan Zankov have given amendments, but unfortunately, Mr. Lazic, what you have excellently elaborated, however, you have not given any amendments. Why? What you're saying and writing. Here, I give you my word that we're going to look at all this and we're going to accept most of it. You've elaborated everything you've just said. For me, I have to say, without the other MPs getting angry, you're a refreshment, but write it down. Boza Djelic is my friend, he is here and give it over him right now to put it in our program here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15547	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15548	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, MPs, there is an extremely important law in front of us that regulates a very complex area, which is the Law on Railways. Without narrow professional interpretation of the law itself, I would like to highlight a few facts about the importance of the railway and the developmental opportunities it provides, which can be initiated by implementing this law. The railway has significant economic and ecological advantages, with far greater efficiency of mass transport and goods and passengers, than any other type of traffic other than water, in terms of price, but not speed. The railway has far greater security and significantly lower power consumption compared to the mass of the transport cargo, far less ecological consequences and the great advantage of the railway is the possibility of traffic taking place in almost all meteorological conditions. In recent decades, the advantage of rail traffic has also been seen at a high speed of transport. Therefore, for any country strategically considering railways and this type of transport must be vital. The Serbian railway has not been functioning on the market for decades and has served largely to meet the social needs of citizens, but also to transport materials to build infrastructure projects without adequate compensation. This has largely affected the increased waste of infrastructure and vehicles, which, with a permanent lack of infrastructure maintenance resources, has led to a very bad situation. The efficiency of the railway will be expressed by moving the economy. The state must strategically direct all modes of traffic in the desired direction, with an unequivocal accent to be placed on the development of rail traffic as the most convincingly beneficial mode of transport. The claim was clearly and doubtless confirmed by the EU White Paper, published in 2001. The separation of public rail management and the operation of rail transport of passengers and goods is one of the important newspapers in this law. Independent operations of railway infrastructure managers and railway undertakings will affect the appearance of competition and the quality of transport, which was the aim of the legislator. This was also a key topic and a directive on EU's first Transport White Paper. As regards infrastructure management, Article 34 provided for the conclusion of the infrastructure manager and government contract, i.e. the AP and local self-government units. This Treaty regulates mutual rights and obligations with regard to financing of rail infrastructure management costs, in a work that distinguishes between the actual costs of rail infrastructure management and the revenue generated from infrastructure and services and prices. However, no matter how bad the railway infrastructure is at the moment, it is still worth billions of euros, as you know, Minister, and it does not matter who and how it manages it. Therefore, this contract must clearly provide for, not only the rights and obligations mentioned, but also the conditions for obtaining a licence and sanctions for non-compliance with the contract, and, above all, the tools and indicators through which the Government could permanently control the operation of the manager, notably in terms of maintenance, and even better, the gradual improvement of the infrastructure situation. That is why this contract must be very carefully and precisely drawn up, because it is through it that the Government has the only opportunity to implement the work and ensure its strategic objectives regarding the railway. In addition, this contract must be about control and the mechanism must be envisaged so that the government can implement its will and strategy in relation to the railways. In this regard, and given the current state of our infrastructure, the contract could now foresee, in addition to the necessary maintenance, and gradually improve the state of infrastructure from year to year. This law also provides for the possibility for local self-government, autonomous provinces, companies to build and manage parts of railway infrastructure. For example, construction and management of industrial circuits. Article 64. The law provides for the possibility that companies, other legal entities and entrepreneurs may have an industrial track connected to railway infrastructure, infrastructure manager, as well as industrial trackways, installations, devices and facilities on those tracks, railway vehicles and other means built according to specific technical norms and standards. This new solution opens up a new, easier possibility for economic operators to transport, but for infrastructure managers it can cause major problems, at least at the beginning of the application of this law, because it is known that the greatest damage actually comes from inadequate cargo vehicles, particularly heavily burdened and particularly inadequately maintained. Since it is precisely by companies, owned by industrial railways and railways, heavily burdened vehicles will be included on railway infrastructure, public railways need to be connected to a public rail network to set up quality measurement devices for vehicles that are built into a track. The use of these measuring devices and procedures and procedures defining what will be done in the event of unauthorised derogations could be prescribed by some sublaw. It was almost impossible to balance the economic and social aspects of rail traffic in general with current regulations and practices. This also raises the question whether the new law will balance the signed contract on mandatory public transport and economic viability for the carrier exposed to the competition? The risk of economic indemnity certainly exists, but there is exactly the place and moment where the government should take place by implementing its strategic rail targets. Of these objectives and only of them will depend directly on how the Government will intervene here, either in terms of additional motivation, which would certainly be desirable in line with European directives and plans or otherwise. In order to bind all the transport advantages of Serbia as a transit country, river, road and rail transport, the law provides for state aid and stimulating measures to be regulated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and thus opens the possibility of encouraging the development of combined transport, which has ecological and economic advantages, which is also another key EU White Paper Directive from 2001. With this law, the Railway Directorate becomes a regulatory and control body. However, the Directorate should not only control the infrastructure manager in terms of its relationship with transporters, but also in terms of the quality of its overall infrastructure management. More specifically, the Directorate should control the overall behaviour of the manager, and primarily from the aspect of meeting the government's strategic objectives, defined through the national railway infrastructure programme, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It might not be bad if it was implemented in a contract that would be signed with infrastructure managers. Mr. Minister, we are aware that the effects of this law should not be expected until a few years after the full establishment of the envisaged system. Although the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts are two years, we hope that your ministry and directorate will make efforts to adopt the necessary acts for the full implementation of this law before the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15549	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15550	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, this is an important law that requires the adoption of regulations in the area of rail traffic with EU regulations, the extension of the railways department's work on the adoption of sublegal acts, but also, as the promoter pointed out, more effective operations in the area of rail traffic, and all in order to regulate, improve and ensure safe operation of rail traffic. For the first time in our law, this bill regulates the area of combined transport, and also foresees that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, adopts a national programme of rail infrastructure for a period of five years, which includes, among other things, the development strategy, reconstruction, modernisation of the maintenance of railway infrastructure, as well as the adoption of the financial resources needed to carry out these activities. As a positive solution to this bill, the separation of the railway system to the part responsible for managing railway infrastructure and to the part responsible for transport, which will operate separately, creating conditions for competition and increasing the quality of this type of traffic, and especially for controlling the spending of funds, because it will know exactly what funds are used for rail infrastructure, and what means for rail transport itself, which so far has not been the case since the funds are non-intentional spending. The need to pass this law also indicates a situation currently in which rail traffic is in Serbia. In fact, at this point, we are not currently following European trends, let alone world trends dominated by the investment of significant funds in the electrification of the railway network, the shut-down of non-renewable shares, as well as the investment in building modern capacities, but the modernisation of existing infrastructures, as well as the rolling stock. Our rail traffic is in extreme trouble. A large part of the track is with a high degree of permanence, only 3.2% of the network is allowed speeds up to 100km, which is devastating for the European average, and several thousand departures are cancelled annually. The safety of passengers and railway personnel is at risk, no modern signalling devices, no time-consuming rolling stock. I think there could be many more shortcomings, but this situation still wouldn't be our reality if we thought to become competitive in providing transport services in the European frameworks. The process of European integration makes us need to invest in rail infrastructure, and the adoption of this law is a good step in this direction, as well as a new management that has, for this short time, enviable results in business. Part of Corridor 10 that passes through our country creates an obligation to access the modernisation and reconstruction of this infrastructure as urgently as possible. To remind me, the important international direction of E85 is being provided through our country by Subotica, via Belgrade, Nis on the route of Belgrade-Montenegro is the international road E79, an important direction E70 through which our country connects with the former republics of SFRY, as well as beyond Italy and Austria. The development of road traffic from the 50s to the 1980s has led to a gradual stagnation of rail traffic, it has been placed in a position that competition with other modes of traffic cannot be maintained, while large costs, primarily of producing transport resources, infrastructure is that in the largest number of countries the construction and maintenance of infrastructure is financed from budget funds, as is the case with us, and it is not small in us or in other countries. By passing this law and a new way of realising Serbia's railways, it will allow it to be less dependent on budget subsidies, i.e. starting to generate revenues. A legal solution that can be very important for local communities, including my Vrbas and its economy, where there is a certain infrastructure, and the possibility that they themselves manage a part of the railway infrastructure for which the company has no economic interest, which is essential primarily for connecting parts of the local community and local communities, which was once the case in many municipalities in Vojvodina. Finally, the reason why the SNS parliamentary group will support this law is the goal of finally moving towards a more efficient solution to the long-term problems that exist in the rail traffic in Serbia that are being looked at, above all, in major economic losses, that this kind of traffic that is the most cost-effective after the river begins to realise revenues and that through the modernisation of infrastructure and normative frameworks whose segment is that this law, whose adoption we welcome, creates an attractive area for investment in this kind of traffic, as well as the interest of passengers in this kind of traffic and transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15551	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15552	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister Mrkonjic, the representatives of the Government, today are on the agenda of three laws in a united debate, and I will commit, as well as all my colleagues to one law, it is the draft law on railways. At the first reading of this law, we see the government's message, the government wants to bring us closer to the EU, not the "Cargan's Eight", not the "Ciro", but a fast, express train. In order for this law to live, there must be certain conditions. First of all, the state must be legally strong in the entire territory of its country. Is Serbia strong all over the territory? It's not. The other thing, in the area where the law is passed, is it a railway, first of all, is that area, is that resource ready to incorporate one of these laws and is it ready to respond to one of these laws? That's what we're going to discuss in the course of this discussion. Many countries around Mr. Ministers have passed laws like this. First of all, those countries that have been entering the EU, first of all we think of Romania, Bulgaria. However, while adapting these laws to European legislation, I think that even to this day these laws could not be implemented in these countries because they were not ready for state capacity for such a thing, their systems were not ready to respond to such a requirement to liberalise their rail market. Another thing, in order for this law to apply, we need to have quality infrastructure. Do Serbia, "Serbian Railways", have quality infrastructure? What does that mean? That means we have high-quality railroads, high-quality trains, we have high-quality locomotives, we have quality logistics that monitors that railway infrastructure. What condition is this resource of ours in? One word in a catastrophic word, as is our country. I'm afraid of something else, Minister. If the state doesn't solve the problem of Corridor 10 as soon as possible, I think that this Corridor 10 will remain a dead spot on paper, a dead letter on paper, but the European trains you all desire here will bypass Corridor 10 and move on to Corridor 4. It is the government's obligation to solve this problem in the coming period, to invest in Corridor 10. Our assessment is that both the highways that are poured into Corridor 10 and into Belgrade – at least 4 billion euros must be invested in order to be competitive, to be electrified, to be quality and to have both Corridor 10 and the Bar railways first and foremost because of these bus tracks. To remind citizens of Serbia what state our railway infrastructure is in. We've heard here that 3800 kilometers of rail was built, that 3160 kilometers is in operation, that one third is electrified while the standard is European, remember 50%, that only 7% is a two-wheel rail, and that the standard is European 36%. That on our rails our locomotives, which are 40 years old, run up to 40 kilometers in some parts of the chase between 10 and 30 kilometers, primarily refers to the Gredile ravine towards Kursumlia. At this point, believe me, from the railway from Belgrade to Leskovac, the train passes in six hours. When it was built in 1886, it passed in five hours. Then you can see the state of our infrastructure. I expect this government to modernise this Corridor 10 in the coming period. The law itself, Mr. Minister, has caused an extremely large controversy among the railways themselves. The director of Railways himself is not satisfied with this law because he says that at the moment this law comes into force it will be an unequal match. That many operators will be privileged and many will be discriminated against. Those are his words. I'm just quoting the director. He says further that Serbia's railways do not have all the necessary permits and certificates that they can carry goods and passengers on certain railways in Serbia. However, what is the experience from the surrounding countries is that it was the railway administrations that granted both permits and certificates to their operators, and all those new operators had to submit licence applications and certificates. With this law and the Serbian Railways, they must apply for certificates and permits. Finally, I must also say that developed economic countries have solved it in a correct way. First they modernised their operators, their railways, and then they just entered the reform and liberalisation of the railway market. That's how smart countries work, that's how countries want to save their resources. That is why the Serbian Railways will be in an invisible position, they will not be in an equal position. For example, it was not possible to help the Serbian Railways, as JAT helped. In that sense, you could think of our railways being competitive with other operators. This law, respected ministers, was due to enter the Assembly long ago, to be voted in this Assembly long ago, but because of a dispute in the ruling structure itself for one simple reason because an AP, which considers itself a European body region, owned by the "Serb Railways" and is available to them and it is a good thing that you did, which you did not allow. However, I ask you, and that is the question I want you to answer me, what about 330km of rail in Kosovo? Their accounting value is 2 billion euros. Are we going to give up that resource like we gave up the territory and the people of northern Kosovo or are we going to do something for those railways? That's a question I also want you to answer. Also, dear friends, we've all spoken here in an election campaign, and I see it and it's being conducted, that we're going to fight corruption, that we're going to pass anti-corruption laws. However, this law denies it. How is it possible for the minister to decide on everything where the money is, when conditions to make up for public transport obligations, material compensation for certificates? Couldn't that have been done by the boards of associations of these very operators? That's my suggestion, too. By the way, wherever the ministers could use those funds, they're in jail today, I don't mean you, Mr. Minister, I'm speaking in general, I'm saying globally that it could have been solved in one correct way. Another important thing, dear friends, if we have already advocated in the campaign that we will work on the department and sign those important documents offered by Mr Dinkic, signed your political option, this law stipulates that the director of the Directorate is appointed by the Government on a proposal from the minister. You're not going to tell me the Ministers that you're going to propose to someone from the DSS there? Here, Mishko Petkovica. I don't think you'll suggest him, I guess someone from the SPS will be. It would be best if you did it at the competition, because we stood up for it during the election campaign. I'll take the opportunity now, Mr. Minister, to ask you one more important thing, and related to my neighborhood, to Corridor 10, which passes through the Gredile ravine. You know that because of this situation, your colleague Živojin Stefanovic has filed a criminal complaint against you and Mr. Dulic and Mr. Drobnjak, because you did not respect the requirements of local self-government. What are they about? I'll remind you now. Namely, we asked you to track Corridor 10 which was designed by our Directorate, implement. So, to take the Corridor 10 route past the Predejane Motel with the loop that will separate for that motel, for that local community. You know, that Predejane motel was the best privatisation in 2003. He employs 150 workers and feeds six hundred mouths. So it's the only economic operator in that part of Leskovac municipality. If you go around that motel Predejane, it'll be a death waiting room. A lot of people will move out of that space, believe me. So, I expect you in the next period to give us clear views, will next to the Predejana Motel with the loop be Corridor 10 or not, so we know how to react from local self-government? If that is not the case, dear friends, we will have to apply at the next session of the Assembly to grant us a date, so that southern Serbia becomes a full member of Serbia, that the citizens of southern Serbia become citizens of the first order, not citizens of the second order as they are so far. Mr Dacic said one important thing when he had a meeting in Nis with the presidents of the municipality about southern Serbia, the government of southern Serbia only remembers when the wars are. Otherwise, to remind you that 12,500 soldiers, reservers in Kosovo, have left Jablani County, many have not even returned from Kosovo. There, Mr. Mrkonjic, you can also think that way, to help southern Serbia, because we have passed a law here on even regional development. If you want to develop evenly regional Serbia, then you must accept the instructions of local self-government. We'll talk about it if we have to. We were even ready for some radical moves, to block that part of the road, but we want to hear your reaction, how you will react. So as far as the DSS is concerned, it's an amendment to the law, you could see that. We wanted first of all to improve this text of the law, to imitate it with our resources, with our climate, and not to imitate it with European legislation. So if we want to make future quality laws that we will use and that will be real, that can be realized, then listen to DSS inputs, accept these amendments and you will see that this is some reality. Mr. Minister, in the end, if you were going to introduce us into the EU either by express train or Ciro, please tell me, when will it be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15553	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15554	As for a young colleague, he knows my position from four years ago, so he can tell you right now, to turn around and tell you, I haven't changed it, I'm very rigid and difficult to change those attitudes, but of course, it's a matter of political decision structures that rule, so I'm not talking about it. So, Mr. Pejcic is, first of all, to commend Igor Becic who supported the provisions of the law, but you've done a very good analysis and you're absolutely right about some things, and in some you may not be. Most of your amendments have already tickled my associates and we'll probably accept them, maybe not all of them, but some of them. As for Railways, of course, we all know the state of the Railways, of course, and I said that several times yesterday, for 30 years, Europe has been doing the way we do. I'm the least man who does something about joining the EU, I'm doing what I think it's supposed to be, that's good for the railroad. So, it's good to separate the infrastructure from traffic, it's good to see prices both in infrastructure and in traffic, and it's good to get the Railway to start using the resources it has and you've defined it nicely. What's wrong? Not a good railroad organization, of course. We've been going through various stages over the past 20 years, from being completely decentralised by the Railways to the maximum centralization. But the railroad is a living system, it lives, and the state without a railroad can't. Nowhere in the world, I have to say, if anyone has any new information, my associates who are far closer to the world than I am, they say, "The railroad" is not positive in a profitable sense. Railway parts, freight transport, yes, passenger traffic nowhere. So the state has to subsidise at least that part of the traffic related to the passenger part of the traffic and that's the point. When we talk about infrastructure, I have to remind myself that last year precisely because I wanted to show that not only is it in the new railways, we pulled several trains from Slovenia to Istanbul across our borders in the time allowed, as if the infrastructure was extraordinary. So it's not just that, the railroad has subjective problems that burden it, discipline, order, etc. We managed to unite all services at the borders, through Croatia and through Dimitrovgrad trains pass without delay and arrive at the destination in record times for these conditions now. So, I know it's not just the infrastructure problem, the law can't solve it. The problem is what's in relation to "the railroads" to work. So, "The railroad," the old one I remember, you don't remember her, you're young people, was something that was almost as discipline as an army, she should be today. Because of that, investment in the railroad today, it's going to come back multiple times. Of course, organized investment in Railways, not ad hoc. We're all unfortunately doing ad hoc, from the government to the government, that's not good. If we define ourselves today, you mentioned the plan. We have a master plan until 2027. We have all the documents, we just need this law that creates the preconditions that even in the country, we have to organize right, we just have to work that way. In the end, the Predecesseds who are, I don't usually want to talk about a subject that isn't on the agenda, but I respect you, and that's why I say, "The Predecesseds" are all solved before my appointment as minister. There are commissions, there are bodies that do work, no matter what I have a great experience and I'm a construction engineer for 40 years, but decisions on where to go route Corridors were made before my arrival as minister. I've tried, and several times I've been, I'm emotionally bound. Now I won't talk about it. Don't convince me at all how important it is for that neighborhood or my friend Zika, but some decisions have been made earlier and can only be changed in the bodies and commissions that work there, so it's a competent state commission. I said several times to people down there – give suggestions to the state commission, let it make decisions. Ministers, neither Oliver Dulic nor I are capable of changing anything, nor is Mr Velja Ilic now. Therefore, if it works in that sense, I will always be in that position. As much as it costs, it's a matter of experts, but it's certain that Predejane shouldn't be left out of Corridor 10 streams. What's our interest, it's not that, but what do I ask? Please convince the citizens that the highway and rails of these European features cannot pass through our homes and through our houses. They can't, they have to go a little further, because they're high speeds. We'll tie the Preljana and the pocket and the rest of the places down with some other trails. In that part, I ask you to help us, ministers in the government, and all of our projects, acting on citizens as well. There's demands everywhere. Wherever we're at, I'll take a Pirot for example, we've stopped for two years, and now we're late, of course because of me, because of me, I'm late everywhere. Look at the criticisms I'm putting up with. Unfortunately, wherever the path changes and where we enter into a new decision-making process, from idea projects, major projects, spatial plans, then these are terrible problems. So I ask that in that part I have an understanding of at least you MPs. So far, I have had it to support me as Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15555	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15556	I thank Mr. Mrkonjic for his exhaustive answers, but you haven't given me any answers to any of the questions I've asked. You know that we of the DSS voted in favour of this Russian loan because we believe that investment in infrastructure and how important it is. When it comes to the "Predejane" motel and Corridor 10 through the Grdelička clisura we have all the permits and all the idea projects submitted to the state commission. However, we were rejected. In fact, we didn't have any answers from that state commission. What I'm interested in at this point and you haven't given me an answer to that question – what about the 330km track in Kosovo? We have no information. I didn't get an answer from you. Since the accounting value of these railways and complete logistics is about two billion euros, will we give up that resource? Especially in northern Kosovo is the largest ethnicity of Serbs, 1200 children are born annually in the area. About 50,000 Serbs live there. There are some 165,000 people living in my city, 600-700 children born annually. Imagine if we abolished their railways how they would get to Belgrade and Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15557	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15558	I'm sorry. I really forgot to answer that question. In the next round of negotiations I expect will be the issue of traffic next week. Then we'll know and I'll take the opportunity to inform you personally about what we agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15559	The word is by the MP Slavoljub Vlajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15560	Dear President, respected ministers, respected ministry colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues, traffic has no limits and this law is extremely important. It is a very important national railway infrastructure programme, which will do a strategy for construction and reconstruction, modernisation and maintenance of railway infrastructure. I would also refer to the objectives achieved by the adoption of the railway law, such as greater safety of rail traffic, empowerment of the Railways Directorate to adopt regulations, as well as the adoption of sublegal acts adopted under the applicable law on railways. The proposal for this law specifies, modernises and corrects many specific provisions, thus achieving a more efficient and efficient application of the law. In this way, the interests of all participants in rail transport are protected, as well as all management structures, railway undertakings and road users. The most important problem the bill needs to address is the lack of certain powers of the Railway Directorate for the adoption of pre-legislative rules necessary for the safe and smooth operation of rail traffic. Bringing this law would improve the efficiency of rail transport as the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system. Now I'd come to why I got up here, and that's to solve a railway knot, that's to move the rail track from the city's core. The longstanding problems of the city would be solved in terms of faster and more efficient operation of traffic, as well as the reduction of conflict points that cause largely the presence of rail traffic in the city's core itself, which has been created by the natural growth of the population and the expansion of the city. The low node is the oldest point on Corridor 10. Experts need to agree on the implementation of this project. What the railway predicted, and what is probably most appropriate to it, is that there remains an existing railway that passes through the city center and the construction of the northern rail line that would be used for transport traffic. It's probably the simplest and fastest solution for the railroad, and I don't think that's a good solution for the city of Nis. Knowing you as a projector, as a performer, a man who has been in the railway for 30 years and who participates in all these projects, together we once opened certain works when it comes to a railway node, I would personally ask you to engage and find the best possible solution. Is that a solution in a year, in two or three years, it doesn't matter, because it's probably for our future maybe sometimes 10 years is little. I would ask you to find the best possible solution through this idea solution. One of the solutions is, like, everywhere in the world, that railways usually go either underground or above ground, so you try one such possible solution through an idea project. I know it all costs money, but after all, money is irrelevant to the safety of the Nish citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15561	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15562	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that this ruling majority has absolutely agreed on the subject we are discussing with the way you work. Just like our trains yesterday, you were late for work. 20 minutes ago, in the afternoon of 37 minutes, today we started working on the agenda not until after an hour and a half, and it was mirrored by both governments and states and railways. I regret that today we are discussing the law on railways without anyone, I repeat, anyone from the ruling majority referred to the recent traffic accident in Belgrade when 22 citizens were injured. When none of the railroad's executive personnel thought to get into the scene of the accident, what would you need to talk about in the first place? Now I ask you such a human being, what did Radovan III say – what are the motives of the railway people's initiative not to go to the scene of the accident? What motives led them? Is it considered that these people's lives aren't important, aren't they worth it, that no one should come out? It was a state holiday so they don't work for national holidays when there's an accident but only after 10 days. Should you need the injured to sit in the tunnel while they remember to come see them, or perhaps you have brought together the holidays, with what seems to be the holidays you do, from Christmas to Easter, not Easter to May 1st. I have to ask you, maybe you've all travelled to Bali or Mauricios, not to the point of trafficing trains, or your staffs are like that with these bought diplomats that they don't even care much about the fate of passengers, but they're only interested in getting certain privileges, buying some more diplomas and any more exams and increasing their biography for new data. It's a little unusual that in a country where trains are pounding like Easter eggs, after seven days, we find out details of this train crash. This is the best picture that we have criticised you for, in fact, that the departmentalization of public enterprises was only a dead letter on paper and that the managers of public enterprises are inextricably, incompetent, irresponsible to manage the large systems that the state of Serbia has entrusted to them. (Wolceta Toskovic, from the scene: And you had? We've always had enough humanity that when something happens, we come to see how people are and we ask, whether it's a flood, whether it's a car accident, a train accident, to come and ask people how you are. We'll see who's to blame. We've always had this feeling of compassion with people who got hurt in some accident. There's a difference between you and us. You only see yourself, your wallet, your chair and your position, and we see the whole system we control. When you learn that difference, then you can celebrate Europe's Day. Again, the problem with you is that we don't support this law for one single reason. We have no confidence that such executives will know how to implement it, that they will know to set priorities where the money will go from the Russian Railway Modernisation Loan. Here, you win, I ask now – what are you going to modernize? What are you going to do? The Loznica-Valjevo railway or the Belgrade-Bar railway or are you going to work the Belgrade-Stalic railway? I must remind you that my skepticism and suspicion of your railway management are coming for the reason that in the state of Serbia during the 1990s there was a federal railway tax. I was a private contractor and I remember very well. Two percent on services and three percent on goods during the 1990s. What's the matter with that tax? It is not that we regularly paid him and settled him, but that he did not end up where he was supposed to end up, because only 26% of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia ended up in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the rest in special accounts from Cyprus and beyond. Now we need you to believe that you will modernise the railway with such practice, such experience, and such a biography. You can't get our trust. Maybe you can drive us on those trains you can't. I had a good time driving once with Serbia's high-speed rails, which turned into Serbia's fast-skating skeletons. Speaking of these waterways, I think it's time to talk a little bit about some more agenda points. We all ignore that there are points six and seven here. I'm not going to enter your intellectual motives, your impulses and your initiatives, which is why you put these two points together, but I'm going to read you point six and point seven. Point 6 says – Proposal for a law on the validation of the Strasbourg Convention on the responsibilities of inland navigation, and point seven says – Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the field of maritime transport. Now I ask you - what do railways and maritime transport have to do with the Strasbourg Convention on the Limitation of Responsibility in Internal Navigation? Allow me to be creative, as you did when you brought this point together, so I say that means that instead of the Stalać-Solun railway, we will have a waterway that announced by Minister Bacevic Stalac-Gredelica-Vranje-Pladbudze and, within that waterway, we will now with Cyprus regulate maritime traffic between the largest port of Limasol in Cyprus and Dragobudze near Vranja. I think it's a phenomenal item of the agenda on Europe Day. All I'm worried about is whether we're really going to lift the train station in Stalac, so we can build a port captainate and who's going to sing at the opening? I absolutely know who's gonna sing. It's not who you think. The singing group Haustor who have a hit – My city has won the port tonight. Stalać will be a coastal town, here, I see, is about to bloom lemon in Stalać and there will be beautiful series – Stalać on foam from the sea and Leskovac on foam from the sea and Vranje on foam from the sea and there will be a port for the crow bus station to be built, and load, and then unload, and from Guri's pump, who is here from Vranja, do you know where Gurina's pump is, from Gurina's pump to K's bus station, so if you walk long enough, you will also be able to walk away from this depressed country. But when Stalac becomes a coastal city, will you lift the railroad or won't you? That's what happens when you buy a diploma at the age of 50, and at 55 you read a booklet read in elementary school, Jules Vern – Travel through the centre of the country, so I'm not surprised that you haven't tried to make a sea route. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, let me ask you, which of the four Ministers of Infrastructure will be in charge of this brilliant project of the waterway from Belgrade via Stalac to Grdelica, Vranja and south to Thessaloniki? You, Verica Kalanovic, Velimir Ilic or Mr Bacevic? I think you're going to kill each other who's going to open that waterway. I'm gonna rattle the scissors "all at 16" to cut that red ribbon. I personally doubt such grand projects. What happened to the Performance Study? Someone went to China, as I recall. There were parliamentary questions this morning. What did the Chinese say? Are they gonna make a waterway or not? The moment Rayna-Maina channel has terrible economic losses, you'll convince me it's good for Serbia? We did the feasibility study to Leskovec. There are strong reasons to do this path to Leskovec and to change Serbia's hydrological map, to improve the quality of life, to make hydropower plants, but how will you from Leskovec to Vranj, to Dragobudja? There's nowhere to stop and a river and a waterway and a railroad and a highway. It's very tight. I think that utopian idea that you're inclined to buy votes is going to disperse like a soap bubble. Because you have all the soap bubble. It just blows, as much as possible, to make it as colorful and as big as possible. When it bursts, then everyone says -- you know, it's not ours. That's why you have four Ministers of Infrastructure. Why did you avoid talking about this part of the agenda? It is important that Serbia sign international agreements, these are our obligations. We want to go to Europe, and we want to go to Europe, but I have to ask you, Mr. Gristle. I got a Blitz here yesterday. Do you read "Blitz"? Here he says on one side in "Blica" -- the foreigners found an alternative route to Corridor 10 and said it would work for a Calafat bridge that will connect Romania and Bulgaria through the Danube and will open on 20 May. The title means that Serbia will have a loss of several dozenm euros related to road traffic through Serbia. Not only through tolls, these truckers by law have to rest after four hours, so they stop at a gas station and buy something, eat, etc. These losses will be much greater than those transit losses of fuel consumption and potential toll payments. In doing so, it is 100km longer, but it is cheaper by 100 euros. Who's going to replace that loss in the budget? Will the Public Procurement Act? You said through the Public Procurement Act, I don't know how many billion euros. When you've saved so much, then why does Serbia owe this record? I don't think there's any reason for that. And yet, I'm going back to this theme about the railways, and there are a few good things, Mr. Gristle, in this law. First, it will finally define what this railway belt of railway land is, where it can be built along the railway line and where it can't. I don't need those people in the Rate anymore, I think you go to the roast at the Foot, you don't have to worry anymore that they're going to tear down those houses that are next to the railroad. The whole rate rests on land that is railway and people have never been clear about whether they're going to tear down those houses where they live for over 20, 30 years. It's good to introduce this inspector and finally try to define who's taking care of that railway land. Do you know how many miles of railroads are completely abandoned and still run like railway land? They cut off the factory halls, cut off certain municipalities, dead tracks, dead stripes. One of these dead stripes, unfortunately, cutting the land is the Stalac-Požega railway and I have not seen that train for our mandate, nor for the previous term, nor for this current term. It's rare when a train passes. It's a good thing there's a train that traffics on the line Zvečan-Kingjevo-Zvečan and what goes, which traffics. But, you know what, we also love Vrnjaka Banja, Kruševac and Trstenik to ride the train sometimes, or maybe you'll make us a waterway to Vrnjaka spa. It's a tourist resort, so there'll be nice canals, paedolins, sandolins, gondolas, steamboats, steam locomotives, steam locomotives. It's the greatest achievement of the 21st century of this government. At least move on to Chuck, so I can get to Vela's pool, he's got that sandolin in the pool, so we can go through the canal together. Kajak's in the pool, as far as I can remember. That's why Chuck doesn't have any water, until the pool's full, there's no water for everything. I'm asking you again in the end. This law is inconclusive to you. It is not unserious because of my exposure, because I have to be like this when I see the topic, that you join the railway and waterway and the Treaty of Maritime Traffic between Cyprus and Serbia. When the maritime line opens, the Drago Budge – Limassol ferry line, please invite me, to assure me that this is possible, that the money no longer disappears on Cyprus by plane, but by steamboat. Here, I see you've reactivated those Beobank experts, they know best how to do it. By the way, I don't think that steamboat's gonna have a seat belt to save this government and it's not gonna be a seat belt to save this fallen government. These laws don't work, it's not good for you to suggest them. It is good that Serbia is heading for Europe. We also prepared this law to be put into congregation procedure, but we did have personnel who could enforce the law. Unfortunately, you don't have it. Your frames are out of line with challenges. It showed a train accident in Belgrade, 22 injured, no one visited them at the hospital or at the scene. This in Germany, Switzerland, Russia, Japan, currently requires the resignation of one of the responsible people. You must have compassion for the victims of the accident. That's the basic principle. You're not in politics because of your personal well-being, you're in general good, you're in general interest, you're in taking care of all the resources, you're in charge of people, and then you're in charge of this country's material resources. If you behave like this, it won't be good. In the end I can only say to you, who has sown you, he will also reap you, but the people's mill will crush you into the dust of oblivion if you behave like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15563	Minister Mrkonjic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15564	I would not comment on Mr Milivojevic's discussion, which was unserious, irresponsible, trendy, a little charming for the bar, but not for the Assembly, if it wasn't for the first topic he imposed and in which he said everything that wasn't true. So, for the first time since I was a minister, an event has been done in the best possible way by law in five years. I personally led a team of people who ran the business. Of course, Mr. Milivojevic doesn't respond that it couldn't be the insinuation and lies of their media, but it will never be again and that's the point. On the spot until yesterday, when the report was given, all the necessary people and experts, let's check it out, can check in the SUP. All the people were accounted for, the railway was maximumly engaged on that plan, the inspectors from my ministry and the assistants and all my associates were in progress the whole time. So, we just didn't let the misinformation that fits at this point, let's say, Mr. Milivojevic, go public and that's not good. Now, if I'm allowed by the president, I'm going to the charming part of the discussion. Mr. Milivojevic, you gave me a lecture yesterday, but at the time of the former government, six months ago, I was your best minister, which is now so fast, I'm 80 years old, changing my mind? What you're not saying is, maybe Dacic cheated on us, so he went over to the other side or the Dark One, and now I still love The Dark One, but it's not mine. Why don't you say so? That's what I expect of you, as from the serious man I've been walking around Krusevec and the Rates, opening rounds, still doing those paths and the one we haven't finished with, and that one we're doing, to the house doesn't matter who, because it was my duty. It's the only place you've let me down. You know me as a man, and it's not fair to treat me like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15565	Replica, MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15566	About this first serious act, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, just give me the name and name of the director of the train that came out of the scene of the accident. (Milutin Mrkonjic: Vladimir Radovic. ) Thank you very much, I haven't seen him, I've heard him in the media. I'm reading Informer. Excuse me, one second, Mr. Milivoevich. Please don't disturb the speaker until he's finished. I'm reading Informer, two in one, it's readable and it's good for the arson. I'm asking you again, Mr. Mrkonjic, I haven't seen the director general of the railroad, I haven't seen the executives from the top of the railroad at the scene. As far as this second part is concerned, I don't think you've done anything wrong in the last government, I don't think you might be doing anything wrong right now, but what it's worth to you to be the messiah in the bullocks fight, it's worth nothing to you, you're in the Moravian league, and you can play whatever you want, hands and feet and heads, it's not worth it, it's a limit to you. You'll never see the Champions League. You could only do that with us. I'm not mad at you, I'm not jealous, I'm not jealous of you. On the contrary, I just want you to finish everything we started. Jabba, I'm telling you, a bullfighter can buy the Messiah if he's got the money, but the Champions League won't see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15567	MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, unlike some previous speakers, I'm going to talk about the agenda point, and that's the railway law. The railway in Serbia has a major development and investment potential, 3,808km of railways, of which only 283km of two-wheel rails, one-third or 1,279km of which is only electrified. However, when I was talking about the great development and investment potential, I was primarily referring to the railway section of Corridor 10. The railway part of Corridor 10 is one-third of Corridor 10, as it passes one-third through the territory of the Republic of Serbia or about 767km. A two-dimensional electric railway is only from Belgrade from the border with Croatia. Although the rail part of Corridor 10 is closer and shorter between Europe and the Middle East, unfortunately, only 8% of freight traffic goes to Corridor 10, because we cannot ensure the quality of our tracks, it cannot provide both speed and quality and safety, and therefore this Corridor 11 takes a lot of income that we need as a country. It is estimated that around 4.7 billion euros is necessary to do the railway part of Corridor 10, and in this I see a chance for our construction, for our metal industry, to take part in the work of a high-quality railway section of Corridor 10. What is good and what I support, is the division that this law defines in the management of public rail infrastructure and in the operation of rail transport. You know, Mr. Minister, that the two of us have been in an engineering debate in this House. I didn't agree when some loans were taken to complete the railway section of Corridor 10, and then these loans unfortunately bought locomotives. I can't accept a crep buy-in policy, and we didn't have the basis. That changes this law, and that is why, personally and personally, the SNS Group, in the voting day, we will support this legal solution. However, what few people have talked about about this bill, and as far as SNS personnel are concerned about the functioning of the public undertaking "Serb Railway", we are not irresponsible people, we are not talking casually, we are not talking about any mills, we are not talking about any trampolines, I do not want to give a further assessment, but what is the fact is next. The Serbian Progressive Party took the responsibility of handling "Serb Railways" at the end of December 2012. It passed the first quarter of 2013. The data I received here really gives me the motive to be optimistic that both the "Serb Railway" and this law that you, Mr. Minister, have proposed will receive one truly favourable stream. As for passenger traffic, 4.2 million passengers or 16% more were transported for the first three months in the first quarter of 2013 than in the same period last year. Realisation of the driving order was 96%, transporting 28.277 trains. No train was cancelled because of a locomotive defect, and last year 121 trains were cancelled because of a locomotive defect. Neither was the operating route, no train was cancelled by telegrams. Last year, 2,592 trains were cancelled that way. Ten trains were cancelled because of the track closure this year, and 331 trains last year. Three trains were cancelled in the first 100 days due to the lack of cars this year, and last year 25. Due to the lack of electric motor furniture, only five trains, and last year in the same period of 109 trains. No train from the BG train system was cancelled, and 188 trains were cancelled last year. Unreal price, Mr. Minister, trains from the BG train system and I think there is no need to think about an increase in price, but it is necessary to consider a contract signed with the city of Belgrade and the larger subsidies the city of Belgrade should separate. Train delays have been reduced by 56% in passenger traffic. Income from passenger traffic 394,500,000 dinars or 13.5 million dinars more than last year in the same period. Gentlemen, these are facts. This is exact, this isn't descriptive, cheerleading, not descriptive. Internal traffic carried 1,300,000 passengers, or 44% more than last year, and 39% more than the plan. There's a 50% increase in ticket payments with the conductors. A ticket control action has been launched when entering trains and this is not any bus or bus plus, because everything was done within the railway Serbia", the capacities and people already employed in the "Serb Railways", but in one much wiser way and thus almost 15% of the total payment of train tickets was increased. As far as freight traffic is concerned, 635 million net tonnes have been transported, cargo is increased by about 48,000 tonnes or 5.4%, car rotation has been reduced by 44%, which means that the car is much more exploited. The number of foreign cars on our tracks is on average reduced by about 65% or from 1.705 to 599, and their average retention has been reduced by almost 2.5 times from six to two and a half days. On this basis, costs have been reduced by 54% and in the account and in the "Serb Railway" budget, savings have been achieved only on this basis of 1,650,000 euros. Not only 55 freight trains were sent, unlike last year when 1,238 was not equipped. This year, due to the lack of diesel locomotives, 49 are not equipped, and due to the lack of electric locomotives, only one train, while last year, due to the lack of tow vehicles, as many as 1,197 trains have not been sent. Fuel consumption for diesel locomotives has been reduced by three months by 650 tonnes and thus direct savings have been made from 54 million dinars. The fuel tracking probes were installed in the locomotives just in case. I don't point a finger at anyone, but this way, in just three months, 54 million dinars, and then finally, in the financial effects of that law, I'm going to tell you why we had to do it all. As for international activities, the intensification of Kargo 10 with Croatia and Slovenia has been intensified, cargo traffic has been launched through Piraeus with Greece on the Macedonian railway, ten to 15 trains per day, cargo traffic with Luka Ploče has been launched. Savings made for these 100 days or in the first quarter of 2013. Fuel for road vehicles, and I'll remind you that we found 430 road vehicles that were used on different grounds in the Railways of Serbia, immediately 126 vehicles were taken away because of non-intentional spending and parked to avoid additional costs. In this way, only through fuel for road vehicles was savings from ten million dinars. At the moment of the takeover of the public company "Serb Railway" debt was found for the phones, 38 million dinars. The costs for fixed phones are reduced by two million dinars, the country's daily dinars for 21 million dinars, overtime for eight million dinars, electricity savings for 30 million dinars, and estimated that 100 million dinars lie in the power savings for the tow, by entering negotiations with the EPS to compensate for these costs by transporting coal. All of this, gentlemen, has contributed to the commitment of the biggest losers, the decade's biggest loser in Serbia by just three months to a hundred million dinars. The diesel fuel debt is down 200 million dinars. The found debt of "Serb Railway" was 357m dinars on 31.12.2012. On 8 April 2013, the debt amounted to 160 million dinars. These are the funds, which is the potential of "Serb Railway", but with one domestic, with one good business, with one good host's business, responsible business. It's SNS personnel. The payment of our claims. The demand for "Serbian Railway" has increased by 13%. The debt to foreign railways has been reduced by a million euros. The IRS has been paid 202 million dinars. The debt has been reduced to dependent enterprises of 115 million dinars. It is possible to link the work experience and get these people health insurance and health books. A lot of things, a lot of things, but I want to let my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group talk about this law, too. There are many indicators of how we treat and traffic in Serbia and your ministry, Mr Mr Mrkonjic, and towards railways and all businesses, according to all ministries. Where the SNS took responsibility with its partners, it's done this way. Congratulations to the people of "Serb Railway", because they give me hope that this business has a chance for Serbia, there is a chance that we can survive, there is a chance that we can make one better Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15569	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15570	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as a member and member of the SDPS, on behalf of the party, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all citizens on the Day of Victory over Fascism and the Day of Europe, which is in line with our programme and our values in our programme, in our goals and of course in our hearts. As for the draft law on railways, I would firstly like to point out that so far the law we had since 2005 has not been in line with the time in which we live, with new developments in the world economy, global economy, political developments, so I believe that this new proposal contains newspapers and, most importantly, is in line with the laws and legislation of the EU, but not only the EU, but also developed countries of the world. We may also be through amendments and certain additions to suggest something that has proved right and which has shown qualitatively well in other countries, such as Croatia, such as the Federal Republic of Germany. What we lacked was that of counterpart Branislav Lazarevic from the United Regions yesterday, which is quality management, improvement of efficiency, maximum possibilities for capacity building in the context of modernisation of restructuring. Croatia has made a special management company within the framework of the railway holding company, which exclusively deals with the management process and manages the efficiency and efficiency of Croatia's railways. The Federal Republic of Germany even has, within the framework of the railways, an advisory body composed of nine parliamentarians from both homes of the Federal Republic of Germany, who are just as experts, but also as a control body, overseeing all those who manage such a very important national resource, which of course has key importance for the development and management of the entire national economy of each country and of course of the Republic of Serbia. What is qualitatively good is that finally the government must also bring in a competent ministry, a national plan, must adopt a strategy for modernisation and restructuring. I sincerely hope and can say that I am optimistic that people in the ministry, people in Serbia's railways, will have enough knowledge, knowledge of new technologies and good practices of developed countries to implement this strategy because there are 113 previous strategies, which have been passed, voted in our parliament in most cases are not implemented and I think that this is the biggest part of the job, so that we will watch it as a party and as MPs to implement the strategy and what will happen in the railways in the next period. We're all aware of the state of our railways, but by this law, I think we're getting one chance not only to attract quality and good loans, as we've realized with the state of Kuwait. It's a 25m-euro loan under very good conditions from their development fund, not only to realise loans, but to attract foreign investors' investment in our railway. I would like to remind you that Kuwait, in addition to this development fund, which deals exclusively with the lending of other countries and other companies in other countries, has a special fund that is currently engaged solely in investment in infrastructure, both in its country and worldwide. So I think that this law will in many ways help us attract foreign investment and, of course, make our rails more competitive and more quality. I won't say much about this law creating preconditions for the competition, for the development of competition, which, of course, is every market economy and every normal state in the 21st century should be a priority. It is in the interest of the country, it is in the interest of our citizens, and of course in the interest of the Railways of Serbia as an action society and enterprises that should be, of course, market-oriented and in line with the new conditions that take place on the market and the conditions that take place in the field of rail traffic. Of course, it is very important to note that compliance with European directives and European laws makes our way, when it comes to Serbia's railways, into EU integration, makes it faster. Why am I saying that? Because it is very important for us to take advantage of the possibility of withdrawing funds from European funds. We all know in this House that there is a fund called the Trans-European Networks, which invests, which invests funds in the whole aspect of traffic, but focuses most on rail traffic. This will be a special opportunity for modernising our railways, for improving its efficiency and its competitiveness on the regional but, of course, on the European market, we can get quality resources and develop a railway that will certainly be, I sincerely hope, the backbone of the development of our entire economy. It is in the interest not only of the parties that have proposed this law, it is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia and of our country, given that the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is economic development, economic reform, I think this will only be part of a system solution that will make reforms as fast and dynamic as possible bring an end and, of course, experience economic, industrial and any other growth, which we cannot do without development and modern infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15571	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15572	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, since much has been said in this discussion about the Law on Railways, I will briefly recapture some of my observations. The law creates the possibility of improving the efficiency of the Republika Srpska railway system, its integration into the transport services market, as the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system. I would like to appeal to the Nish-Kurchumli railway, which is now shut down, since the South is very specific to many things, to connect this direction, i.e.. It connects three municipalities in southern Serbia, Nis-Prokuplje-Korsumlia and further towards Kosovo and Metohija. So this line is very attractive for many reasons for the transport of passengers and goods and would mean a lot to the people of southern Serbia. As far as this law continues for the city of Nis is concerned, it is very important that the national plan that the Serbian government will bring is to verify immediately after the adoption of the new railway law to enter the construction, reconstruction and modernisation of the railway node, which, of course, includes the construction of a bypass and the removal of freight traffic from the central city core. This refers to a period of five years and I sincerely hope that this time period will be sufficient to complete the mentioned reconstruction and construction of the railway node. In part of the rationale of the railway law, several working subgroups were formed during the draft law, from the most significant representatives, where the company for the construction of the railway node "Belgrade doo". Nis would consider Belgrade as having to have an undertaking to build a Niš railway node that will in a professional and professionally sound way represent the interests of the city of Nis, monitor and implement investment in railway infrastructure in the territory of the city of Nis and the Niš region, because such investments represent investments of great importance both for our city of Nis and for the Republic of Serbia. In the atmosphere of the generally accepted opinion that the solution to certain problems of the town of Nis is located in the construction of a railway bypass without a clear determination of existing parts of the railway network that will remain in the area of the city itself, it is concluded that the bypass is a solution to the current problems and that it will become the generator of many other issues. In the world of the previously said company, which would be formed would also be concerned about other issues that would arise under the application of the new law, referring to the legal paper that the Serbian Railways are no longer monopolies in railway transport and that a railway undertaking can be any legal person who meets certain criteria that are certified by the Directorate for Transport of Article 9 of the Law. The capacity of the infrastructure to be given to use must be reflected by the competent ones, and the regulation falls within the description of the exercise's work. That is why it is important to form a directorate for the railway node as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15573	Thank you. The Word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15574	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this discussion is slowly coming to an end. Let me half sum up the discussions so far. I'd say there's no big difference between MPs when it comes to assessing the situation on the railways. I think we're all generally dissatisfied with what's been going on in the past decade. I wouldn't say it again, like my previous colleagues, which is not good. A lot of this is a matter of some objective developments in decades behind us, particularly political, and particularly the collapse of our country, the situation in our economy that has had an important impact on the railways, the failed transition. So there's a lot to be done as objective reasons for this condition. There are, of course, many subjective reasons and many of them have spoken a lot about it by my colleagues, but I also think that the common position of all MPs, including all MPs, is that these risks are needed which are increasingly serious when it comes to the work and survival of the railway as soon as possible and as soon as possible to create a new perspective for the railways in another period. With the very concept adopted primarily by the ministry, including the Government, I think that most MPs are satisfied with the fact that it comes divided into infrastructure managers and operators. We're all generally satisfied. There are very few MPs who opposed the concept, and this is no doubt a path towards a more efficient railway, towards more efficient spending of funds, which are mainly coming from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The fact is that there is a lot of mistrust when it comes to the transparency of spending these funds. Many of my colleagues have expressed one fear in the implementation of this law and that is what remains at the ministry and in the new leadership of the Railways, to convince the public, to convince our MPs that we are going in the right direction and that the means that are planned for the railways, which are not small at all, in some future period, means one improvement for this system which, as I said, is of great importance for Serbia's economy and in general for Serbia's transport. I would say that we must urgently improve this internal competition, internal efficiency. In that I recognize first of all the quality of this law. I don't think this law is something that means definitely rail restructuring. I would rather say that he is one step ahead of that 2005 law, but that the challenges put before the railways are very serious and very large and that we will no doubt have amendments and additions to this law. There may be some new law in the coming period, especially at a time when "Serb Railways" will have to be incorporated into a broader European concept, when they will have to fully integrate into European railways, and we all hope that day is not so far away. The very actors that implement this law will depend on how successful it will be. The law itself has a few institutes that are no doubt commendable. It refers to combined transport. It's one of the more modern modes of transportation. I believe that in some future period we will also have the development of that system. The fact is, it's an eco-oriented transport, something that today requires the time we live in. There's serious progress when it comes to the Railway Directorate. We of the SNS sincerely hope that market surveillance under the responsibility of the Railway and Competition Directorate will be at one appropriate level and that as soon as possible we will be in a position to have more operators on the tracks. It's only when we have train routes covering more operators that we'll be able to say that this law has come to life and that it's given some more serious results. I also agree with my colleagues in the opposition that this law that monitors traffic safety was really missing in this set, given that this is a system law. It is very important for the citizens themselves and for the participants themselves in the rail traffic. We've had a lot of problems in the past few years. I sincerely hope that at least the definition of maintenance of road transport, that part that follows this law, can help to some extent also remove all the shortcomings and flaws we had in the previous period, and that we will have a very fast traffic safety law, which, I believe, by the promise of the Minister and the Ministry, will be compatible with this law. The integration of our railways into the EU system, in a system of neighbouring countries, is certainly a priority to this law. Over the next five to six years, about 2–2.5 million should be invested in railways only this year and next. There's a million-and-400 number coming up. I'm sorry, when I mentioned 2.5 million euros, I meant 2.5 billion euros, given that the needs for maintenance of infrastructure are very high and that "Serb Railways" are planning very serious investments both when it comes to trains and when it comes to compositions, when it comes to wagons and that these investments would have been more efficient and that these investments were certainly needed by this law. It is up to us as MPs to follow the effects of this law, and on you, gentlemen of the Ministry, gentlemen of the Railways Directorate, that this law, which I am convinced will support the vast majority of MPs, you are implementing as best for the benefit of citizens, for the benefit of both rail workers and for the benefit of the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15575	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15576	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, the previous Law on Railways, which was adopted in 2005, proved very little applicable in practice, which led to a number of bad consequences, primarily to the lack of any healthy investment in this area, but also to the inability to restructure the entire system. The old railway law is a typical example that the policy of hyperactive law-making, practiced by the previous government, was essentially wrong, even though these laws were formally called European. By praising the number of laws passed, which in most cases remained a dead letter on paper, i.e. by adopting laws already known to be inadmissible or not providing a satisfactory legal framework, to solve the essential problems in the areas they regulate has led us to discuss today the proposal for a new entirely different railway law. The new railway law aims to bring domestic legislation into line with EU legislation so that "Serbian Railways" can be included in the rail transport system, i.e. to be able to apply standards that apply to this area in EU countries, whether it is about rentability, economics, efficiency, competitiveness or anything else. Most importantly, the most important proposal this law offers is that it will expose "the railway Serbia" to market mechanisms at the expense of a natural monopoly that always has the state as the founder of the railway infrastructure manager. That's why the SNS will vote in favour of this bill and support its application in a warm way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15577	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15578	The Honorable Chairman of the Generals, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill solves three important matters. First, he's a step forward in relation to the law so far. This was confirmed yesterday, and the people's messengers from the opposition with their statements. Secondly, it will contribute to the overall improvement of our railways in terms of which only Mr. Zoran Babic spoke, and led by Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, internal organisation and attitude towards work. Third, it will allow the new leadership of the "Serbian Railways" to accelerate the overall development of our railways, along with the government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, the applicable Law on Railways, has already passed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so to speak, recently, in 2005, so seven years ago. The law then set three basic goals, which should have been realised, both by this previous government and by the government before it. The three objectives were then set: firstly, improving the work of the railway system, secondly, integrating the rail system into the transport services market and thirdly, the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, none of these three targets have been achieved. Therefore, in the seven-year practice of applying the Law on Railways, it was seen that it was necessary to approach the adoption of this law in order to better carry out operations in the area of rail traffic. So, during that period of seven years, basic shortcomings of the law were observed, and they relate to two basic things. First, the harmonisation, the so-called new packages of the EU directive, which was not done and secondly, the extension of the section of the Railway Directorate, which Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic spoke of in order to apply the law, because the Directorate had no possibility of adopting sublegal acts under the Law on Safety in Railway Traffic. Dear People's MPs, this proposal for a Law on Railways introduces the national programme of railway infrastructure that was mentioned here yesterday and today, which will be brought by this National Assembly on the proposal of this Government. The programme is a planned act of national importance for the state of Serbia in the railway area, and this is a major step forward. However, I warn that neither the best "Serbian Railway" law will solve the huge and accumulated problems of the "Serbian Railways" as Mr. Zoran Babic said. For such an important company, for the state of Serbia, so to speak, which is crucial for the state of Serbia, it is important that the management of the company and what professional personnel are, and not only for "the railway of Serbia", but also for every company. I note in one sentence that Japan has built personnel, I think I've said a lot with that. Let me add, so to speak, Zoran Babic, to give some information, not from the street, not from the yellow press, but from the state auditor, I believe that you read that report. The former leadership, the senior regime, was not at the height of the task set. As Mr. Mrkonjic said, not domestically, wastefully, corruptly and slightly, I'm sorry, criminally. So it is co-responsible that "Serbian Railway" is at the lowest point in its history. Believe it or not, but that's true. I will illustrate the wasteful behaviour of the former leadership "The Railway of Serbia", the former 13-minute regime, which will be fraternized in a few minutes by the Members of the People's Parliament and the citizens of Serbia. All the data was taken from the state authority, which means they're really true. First, the former leadership of the Railways of Serbia, believe it or not, but it is true, spent 700,000 euros on fuel and car maintenance, 103 official vehicles. Some of their drivers, the state auditor said, put taxi plates on their vehicles and taxis, and some used cars for people who had nothing to do with "Serb Railways". Respected citizens and respected MPs are funds from the pockets of Serbian citizens. These are the footage our opposition predecessors spoke of. Secondly, because of the neglect and irresponsibility of former leadership, the "Serb Railway" spent two million euros on fines because they failed to realise two loans, again from the pockets of Serbian citizens. Believe it or not, only one of the former directors of the Railways of Serbia spent 10 million dinars in a restaurant for a year again in the pockets of Serbian citizens. The fourth, monthly account, here monthly, for fixed telephony amounted to four million dinars, despite the fact that there is a system to be telephoned free of charge within the company, again from the pockets of Serbian citizens. The team's costs amounted to 106m dinars per year, plus 20m dinars in their own rooms, again from Serbian citizens' pockets. The former director-general of the Railways of Serbia spent 300,000 for lunches abroad only for one year, again in Serbia's citizens' pockets. At fair and other events, 26 million dinars were spent in one year, again, normally, out of your pockets, respected citizens. Eight, business lunches cost a year, believe it or not 46.6m dinars, again from Serbian citizens' pockets. That's what our opposition MPs are talking about. The catering services and other jobs cost nine million dinars, again from Serbian citizens' pockets. Gifts in one year, believe it or not, 24 million dinars, again from the pockets of Serbian citizens. Here's where the folk funds are. Former representatives of the Serbia Railways Union spent on behalf of the daily and official travels for one year, believe it or not, 34.2 million dinars, again excerpts from Serbian citizens, gentlemen of the people's MPs. To finance their vacation at sea, the Banjski treatment, for one year they spent 22 million dinars and 1.7 million to use the services of the Hotel "The Railwayman" in Vrnjačka Banja.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15579	Atlagic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15580	Please, thank you sir, I'm talking about leadership and household behavior, that's one of the three key issues in this law. Excuse me, I'll make a comparison for the first three months in the end with this. I'm not guilty of speaking in accordance with the law. The former leadership of the "Serb Railway", avoided the payments of mandatory taxes to the Republic of Serbia's budget, directly damaged the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and thus undermined our country's economic system, and assessed what it means, that the former managers of the "Serb Railway", for the past 10 years, have used these funds every year in modernising Serbia's railways, instead of riding, non-intentional use of financial resources, would not today, ladies and gentlemen have an average train speed of 30 to 40km, and that's at 14th century, sorry, I used to go to transport, not by car and train to school, but to apologize to the Dalmatian donkey, who carried me 30km in half an hour. That's how far we've come, dear citizens. This is only part of the illegals, not to mention the mafia's former leadership "The Railway of Serbia". If the prosecutor's office, Mr. Chairman, entered this firm, I'm not sure they would find themselves behind the locks not only the former "Serb Railway" executives, but also the former political and state officials of the Serbian state. That is why this time, we are giving full support to the fight against corruption in both the Railways and the Crimes, whose character is Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic and the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic. What does good leadership mean, "The Railway of Serbia"? For the company's success, it proves new leadership. I only bring out three small figures that are 100% accurate, "The Railways of Serbia" headed by Mr. Dragoljub Simonovic, because opposition MPs four times named him yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, in just one hundred days of his "government", former leadership contracted earlier 19 trains for $100m. The current director, whom you called yesterday, Mr. Simonovic broke the contract and made a new one for the same $100 million, but not now with 10 trains, Mr. Minister, but for the same 27 trains. The savings on this contract alone are 8 trains or 35m euros, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, Beovoz was 100 days late under the leadership of the new director, believe it or not, only six seconds. Check it out. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in three months, the new director has made a savings for two 2,800,000.000,00 dinars. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me the days of the end to say that we have made little progress in the current railway and railways, unlike the last six or seven years, we have established good relations with, as the minister said to the neighbours, with the Republic of Croatia, with the railways. This morning, some of the untruths came out here regarding Mr. Alexander Vukic's vice president and his visit to Croatia, so I'm taking the opportunity to say something because he's not here. It has been said he has not met with Serbs from Croatia. Since I am a member of the Diaspora Committee, as well as a gentleman who has tended to comment, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, there is no need to defend him, his actions are best defended, but aimed at meeting with the highest officials of the Croatian state in order to solve the accumulated problems between the two countries. Just ten days earlier...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15581	Please, Mr. Atlagic. I've really tolerated you a lot. These are all interesting data that you've provided, but this is not the subject of an analysis of the railway service. This is about the law. Do not answer on behalf of Alexander Vukic the question asked by the MP at the time of the appointment. Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15582	Thank you. I'll be back on the subject, but let me just finish the sentence, since it's half-said. Please, I just want to say that the Director of the Diaspora Directorate Mrs. Slavka Draskovic visited the Republic of Croatia ten days before Mr. Vukic spoke with all representatives of the Serbs in Croatia and with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is for the sake of truth and justice. Mr. Chairman, we have sworn that we will speak the truth in this House, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. This is for the sake of our oath that we all took. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15583	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15584	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure, where it is said that the speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm sorry there's no 2nd indent in this Rules of Procedure to say that the speaker is obliged to tell the truth. It is a good thing that there is an oath by a MP who obliges us to speak the truth, but I cannot really not respond to these qualifications that violate the dignity of the National Assembly and do not respond to the actual state. Not to talk about ignorance, where it's said that in the 14th century locomotives went 30 kilometers an hour. George Stevenson found a steam locomotive like this in 1815, and before that, the first steam locomotive was constructed in 1804. In the 14th century, the locomotive still wasn't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15585	Mr. Milivoevich, please don't let us have a new replica session right now. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you'll have to go ahead and complete your advertising of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Do not abuse the Rules of Procedure for replication. I can't say if he's telling the truth or not. Leave it. You have the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure and end it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15586	I think we could best determine by the fact that the director of Railways is sitting here, so he'll best be able to say whether 300,000 dinars were spent at lunch abroad or not, whether he made a contract to purchase 19 or 20 trains. The man is here and there's no need to talk about him like that. He's not some abstract figure. Not to mention those former directors who are your current coalition partners. Don't talk about the coalition like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15587	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I did tell the People's Parliament that he's out of the picture. As far as he's got, and as accurate as the data is, it's not my place to get into it. Therefore, you have the right to believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. (Milovan Markovic, from town: Replica. ( ) On what basis do you want a replica? (Milovan Markovic, from the post: He mentioned me as the previous Director General. You have no right to a replica. (Milovan Markovic, from the place: He mentioned me. Neither did the MP mention you, nor did he mention the party, and therefore you have no right. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15588	Mr. Chairman, I think you've re-injured a member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of the right to replication. So I mentioned Mr. Markovic's name and name, and Mr. Atlagic said as former director. He is the former director and has absolutely the right to be recognized in the discussion of speaker Atlagic and to replicate, because several times the former director, the previous director, has been said. Well, the previous director is him. When the former director says, there were many directors, but when someone says the previous director, it is absolutely and unequivocally thought of Mr. Markovic. So I ask you to respect this MP's advert and allow Mr. Markovic to replicate. If nothing else, I called him by his name and name and I said – Mr. Markovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15589	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm saying the previous speaker didn't mention him personally, didn't call him. Former Director - I don't know who that former director is. It could be a "xy" person, etc. So because he's a former director doesn't mean he's entitled to replication. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15590	I'm sorry we wasted our time on these groundless discussions. Every waste of time means spending money, and it is very irresponsible for the citizens of Serbia who chose us here. First of all, I think of MPs who made jokes when it comes to the debate in parliament and a very serious law that can regulate the spending of money, the unintended so far, and the relationship prepares for the Serbian railway. I was hoping that we would hear serious comments, remarks, suggestions that could fix this law, not just certain games that should entertain viewers, above all professional viewers. I think it will be the past in the discussions of the Serbian Parliament and we will turn to some concrete discussions. I will speak in favour of this law on "The Railways of Serbia", because I think this is a law that will greatly improve the situation in "The Railways of Serbia". The Serbian Progressive Party has met one of its goals by setting one of its members as the director of the "Train of Serbia" which is that we are domestically, rationally treating the funds, businesses that are entrusted to us. That's what Mr. Zoran Babic's data said a few minutes ago about how savings and rational consumption have been done in the past months since Mr. Simonovic led "The Railway of Serbia". I'd go back to the law. The lagging behind in harmonising the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. relating to rail traffic in relation to EU regulations and lagging behind in the restructuring of the said railway undertaking, i.e. the overall rail transport system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has led to their inconsistency with both the countries' railways in the environment and with EU countries' railways. This again leads to a disproportion in investment in railways compared to road infrastructure. The reason is that no investor wants to invest in outdated, disorganised and inefficient railways. Given that railways are a vital part of the state transport sector, that the efficiency of the rail system should be improved in order to integrate this system into a competitive transport service market, as well as that rail transport should be made more efficient than other modes of traffic, it is necessary for the State to provide the state of railway undertakings with the status of independent operators to operate in a commercial manner in accordance with market requirements. The development and efficient operation of the railway system can be improved if there is a difference between the provision of transport services and infrastructure management and given this concept, then it is necessary to manage these two activities separately and that they have separate accounts, and this is also foreseen by this law. The best approach defined through this law on the restructuring of the railway system, access and use of railway infrastructure, transport in rail transport of general interest is to expose railways as soon as possible to an environment in which decisions are made on a commercial basis. This is one of the main objectives of rail development through restructuring, so when competition does come, railway companies are in a strong enough position to survive. The improved and precise regulation of the rail transport system will significantly boost the interest of domestic and foreign natural and legal persons to invest in railway infrastructure and rail transport. In this respect, it is expected that operators will be involved in the operations of rail infrastructure and transport management in rail transport, which will also create conditions for competition in the market for services in this type of traffic. In addition to this, the fact that domestic transporters already exist for access to railway infrastructure, but due to the inaccurate provisions of the applicable Railway Act, no train route has been allocated. The draft law on railways was held in public debate, so that all interested entities had the opportunity to declare and deliver suggestions and objections to the law. The draft law was also published on the Ministry of Traffic Affairs site. This new law has also been discussed by the European Commission's competent authorities, whose proposals and suggestions in the most part have been adopted and therefore received a positive opinion from the European Integration Office. The passing of this law is the only possibility of overcoming all these problems and the only way... (Chairman: Please bring the end after you have no more time.) )......................................................................................................... I end up, thank you, and the only way to make this law governing rail traffic both practical and efficient. Once again, serious personnel, practical laws, it is a win-win combination for the start of the Serbian railway recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15591	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15592	Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Sandzak Democratic Action Party will support the railway law, because we believe that railways are an extremely important and significant factor in every country and that any improvement in it represents an improvement in the standard of living of citizens. We know that developed countries pay huge attention to rail traffic and that railways represent a serious source of revenue in these countries' budgets. At the meeting of the Assembly last year, I spoke about the importance of rail traffic, both freight and passenger and then stressed how important this type of transport of people and goods is to us. I was talking about the need for New Market to connect with the rest of the country, but also to the world. They repeat once again that 20km of track towards Novi Pazar has been waiting for more than 50 years, that there have been numerous studies that have even shown that this particular share has more justification and profitability than many others already existing or those at the construction stage. But to this day absolutely nothing has been done on this plan. Our role here is to talk about the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which we represent on the basis of electoral legitimacy. Our best intention is to work constructively, to make our country as comfortable as possible for the lives of all its citizens. In Sandzak live people who are citizens of this country, who pay taxes to this country and deserve to pay attention to their needs. Building this stock doesn't cost much, and citizens and businesses in Sandzak are worth a lot. The Republic of Serbia has trade agreements with Russia and Turkey. With a favourable way of transporting goods by exporting to these markets, our clothing manufacturers, shoes, furniture, and even food can be extremely competitive in these multimillion markets with price and quality. In addition to exports, with a favourable way of distribution of goods and on the domestic market, they would reduce the price of these products coming from Sandzak, increase direct production and increase employment. On the earlier planned Corridor of railways was built the highway of Novi Pazar-Raška. The new railway corridor would cover the Raska River valley between the M22 master road Novi Pazar-Raška and the old road Novi Pazar-Raška. This project is foreseen by a spatial plan. The question arises – whether these projects and regulations appear in public as serious intentions or only as a one-time response to the demands of citizens from Sandzak. In order not to repeat everything I have said before and what the Sandzak MPs have said in the previous meetings of this Parliament, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry to deal with this issue, to create dynamics and finally move towards the realization of this project. This is the need of citizens of Serbia living in Sandzak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15593	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15594	Thank you. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, and now I think you've broken the Rules of Procedure by not giving me your word, but anyway, I don't want to open up any lines here, but one of the previous speakers has made some data that I'm guessing doesn't match the truth and don't match the facts. You can check it out. I don't know where you get the information that the new CEO broke any deal. Such a contract does not exist, the minister and representatives of the ministry also know it. It's not a sin to make mistakes, but it's a virtue to admit your mistake. You indicated that the previous Director-General spent 300,000 euros on business lunches. You can check it out, I'm also calling on the representatives of the ministry present, I've never spent any euro or approximate sums. You can also check the data, I don't think you did it on purpose, but simply, you had the wrong information. In four years and a month, as I've served as CEO, I haven't used my right to spend money on official lunches abroad. I thought that we would talk really more in an affirmative way about an important law, which certainly creates preconditions to do very specific jobs in order to improve the efficiency of the railway system in Serbia, as it is said, faster integration into the European rail system and into the EU rail network, and I am sure that that will be the case. I expected there to be more words here about capital infrastructure facilities. I know, Mr. Minister, that your working century is mostly about railways and that the end of Belgrade's railway node, as the most important facility in Corridor 10, is something you stand for in every sense. I am sure that this facility and this project will be a central place in the future national railway infrastructure programme, which I expect by the end of this year to come as a proposal from the government, or your resolution ministry, to parliament. When we talked about Corridor 10, I can't wait for the national railway infrastructure programme to finally see what the priorities are, how much it's gonna cost, how much we have secured funds or in the perspective of the security funds. Of course, in the first projection of the plan, most of the needs will be needed in the red zone, not covered by real funding sources. We must start to plan strategically if we want to have modern infrastructure and be part of the railway network in this region and be leaders in this region, because we are the rails with the greatest perspectives. That's what we're expected to do. In all contacts with people in the European Railway Community who care about Europe's rail system as a whole. Serbia's railways are treated as a very important partner, and it is up to us alone to be bypassed by some other corridors that are less favourable to transporting goods in this direction. I hope that, not only because of this law, but also because of our determination... (President: Time, Mr. Markovic. I'm done. You denied me the right to the line. I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure roughly, but anyway. Of course, I will repeat once again that the MP group will vote in favour of Serbia for this law. We'll take a careful look at the amendments that have been filed. I'm sure they're meant to improve, technically, this text of the law. Thank you again for your efforts, Mr. Minister, to get this one in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15595	The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15596	Let's start with what Mr. Markovic just said. It is true that Mr. Atlagic does not have accurate data, but I would not like this discussion, which was very fruitful, to be marked by it. Mr. Markovic was CEO for four years. We've never been to the lunch you're talking about. It shows great respect for the government of the Republic of Serbia. His great contribution is, above all, in stabilising these relations within the railroad. No strike has been made in those four years. Besides, his contribution to the affirmation of the railroad itself and, in particular, the Russian loan is huge. So much for Mr. Markovic. Mr. Antic spoke nicely, and I wouldn't comment. He'll give support to the law. Ms. Ljubica Mrdakovic is not here either. Mrs. Maria was a pleasant surprise to me, too. Everything you said about the law I would like to commend and say that such an MP should participate in such discussions. In the end, Enes, that's right. 35 years ago, I was doing the first idea project for the Raška railway – Novi Pazar. He kept going into all the future rail-related work programmes. Now they're going to come back in and my associates have already turned it on. Yes, Mr. Rasim Ljajic and I have already talked, it's a lot of money, so we'll see how we get it out. It is certain that this is an important step and that, in this term of office, we must complete the project documentation and prepare this project for implementation. In the end, I thank, as usual, all MPs. As usual, I've learned a lot this time. Please, if you still have time for the amendments, go ahead. The amendments will probably be in progress next week. Thank you. (Marco Atlagic, from the place: Just one sentence. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15597	Mr. Atlagic, you have no right to a replica. Please, he didn't mention you. Please don't. The People's Messenger reacted. He spoke as an authorised representative and did not mention you. (Marco Atlagic, from the place: Please, you are violating the Rules of Procedure. The MPs heard that I was mentioned by Mr. Minister, as well as by viewers and all citizens of Serbia. Did you mention me, Mr. Secretary? ) (Milutin Mrkonjic: I am in a positive sense. ) The word has a People's MP, Donka Banovic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would use that possibility from the Rules of Procedure if the other part of the discussion came to an end like this. I had voice problems yesterday, so I didn't plan on sharing this. I see you, Minister, are sharing your grades for discussion, so I'd hate to be unrated this time. Yesterday, I was mostly talking about one of the biggest objections to this law, which is the liberalisation of the market. We resent that you did not respect the word of the people who work in the railways of Serbia. Mr. Babic, Mr. Atlagic and SNS MPs spoke about the results that Mr. Simonovic, director of Zeleznica, achieved in only four or five months. Is your data accurate or not accurate? I can't check. The former director of the Railways didn't get a word to tell us if all that data was correct, but it doesn't matter. It is important that you did not respect the opinion of the Director-General of Railways because he said on March 27th, therefore, a month ago that the Serbian Railways will not make it difficult for the state to negotiate on European recommendations for the liberalisation of the transport market, but Serbian railways are not ready for such a thing yet. That would be an unfair market struggle for the largest Serbian transport company. That's the man who led the railroad, said a month ago. Getting ready for this discussion, I've learned something. I've learned that since this year, so-called. It's a railway business forum. The first Railway Business Forum was held in late April on Wet Gora. So, as far as I could find out from the media, there were a lot of experts, businessmen and so on. There was a group of 100-150 people. I don't know, Minister, if you attended that forum, but there were a lot of interesting things. Among other things, it takes five to seven years for Serbia to modernise and restructure Serbia's railways, so a complete system, and it takes about 2.5 billion euros to bring the system into some decent state to be ready to come out as a serious player on the open market for transport. I'm worried that you disobeyed the word of the profession. Now I'm going to say something a little different about the law because we've heard a lot of data from all the debaters. I would refer to some of the other members or some of the objections I have on this law, which is, for example, that through some of the members of the procedure, some of the methods are worked out to the smallest detail, what the people would say – it goes right into the small intestine, and then it gets the impression that maybe it could have been solved by some sublegal acts. Okay, that's the thing of the lawwriter. That's not a big deal. On the other hand, some other things aren't detailed enough. For example, there's a head, I think the third one, where you're talking about the Railway Directorate, where you've got well-listed all the responsibilities that this future directorate, which now exists, but also gets some other new powers, really well-numbered. That's why there's not much or very little to say about the organization itself of this special organization, as you define it. So, again, it could be some kind of internal act of the organization. Shouldn't this law be who manages the directorship and how the railway director is chosen? Here we put in an amendment that could fix a little bit, but not something drastic. What else can be resented? There may be a lot of unspecified formulations, or indetermination. There are several places where the term "by rule" is used, so as an example, I will refer to Article 23. The Member states that the infrastructure manager shall, as a rule, assign train routes once a year following the alignment of the requirements for the allocation of train route in the process of drawing up the timetable and for the longest time for the period of validity of the timetable. There's nothing wrong. We also made these objections in 2011 when it was this law. So, you say, once a year, and then you throw in dates, by the book. So when you put it by the book, it can go once a year, but it doesn't have to. I know, you're explaining the instructions that situations can occur when it has to be even more common, but then it should have been regulated by some attitude, not by the rule. So, as a rule, you can, and you don't have to. So there's a lot of such indiscretions. Let's say, as an example of indeterminateness, that in one article you say that, I think it's about creating a schedule of use of infrastructure, I'm not sure, but mostly you say that if such a dispute occurs, then a solution will be found within reasonable limits. So this is something that no lawyer, one who should apply the law or finds himself solving such a one dispute, which means – reasonable limits? It's up to the individual again. Someone is reasonable, smart, etc., so to him these reasonable limits are broad, while, on the other hand, you have people who are not such, so they are narrow to them. So this is a very relative and unspeakable formulation. That's where we put the amendment. We've got about 20 amendments. You will also see some amendments that we have received as a suggestion from the National Disabilities Organization, because you are through various members where we state that we must adhere to some accessibility standards for people with disabilities, we have proposed through our amendments that these members be improved and I hope you will pay attention to that. These are very important changes. In Article 15, which has already been mentioned, where the infrastructure manager is scheduled to suspend public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure where transport is not profitable, this is a member who has been proposed by the DSS to delete. It is simply unacceptable not to see through this whole law what is the special role of every rail or rail-transport system for a single country. So you can't measure everything through profit and profit. There are other interests of serious states that must be taken into account. These are: military-security interests, population issues, migration, until you can't allow certain areas, as is now happening, to remain empty. Among other things, they stay empty because they do not have adequate traffic connections with some centres. I'm sorry you even put one of these on, and I think he's very dangerous. When I look at the Pyrothic County, we have four cities. You spoke yesterday about the state of the infrastructure from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, there was a lot of talk that this share would be electrified and that there was no corridor and that Dimitrovgrad is not bordering with now but a country which is the EU, God knows what that would look like, when that part is very bad anyway. You said you decided to work more in the north. I hope that in some future period you will decide to work a little more in the south and east. Speaking of Pirot County, I have to mention the town of Babušnica that doesn't have a railroad, but it's... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Obviously, no one will ever decide to go into construction of a piece of railroad because it wouldn't be profitable if we were to shut down the ones that exist. But Babušnica has a very bad path... (President: If you haven't heard from me, I repeat that the time of your parliamentary group has been spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15599	Replica. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15600	Mr. Chairman, I really have no intention of leading the replicas, but since two incorrect information has been presented and I've been called on two occasions, just to say a few things. If the previous MP referred to my discussion and understood 300m euros, then I apologize to him. It's about 300,000 dinars for those lunches. Second, Mr. Minister, I don't take this information off the street. People's MPs know me well. This is all the data I took for 2010 from the State Auditor's report. I don't trust you or me or the Director, but the State Auditing Institution. I'm sorry I brought the data. If she was wrong, then I was wrong. But I think she's the most competent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15601	Replica. Milovan Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I accept this apology. But it's not even 300,000 dinars, you have to check the data. I am responsibly saying that this is how I really didn't use my right to spend money.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15603	Thank you. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? (No) I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft law on railways, a draft law on the validation of the Strasbourg Convention on the responsibilities of internal navigation and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of maritime transport. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 1535 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15604	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we begin our work. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly, on a joint principled review of the proposals for the Laws of 2nd and 3rd agenda, has called for today's session, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Professor Dr Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, Health Minister, to be attended by Slavka Lakicevic, Assistant Minister of Health and Radmila Ivanek, special adviser to the Minister of Health. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the draft laws referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups by a proportion of the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which you are in favour of. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: a bill on patients' rights and a bill on the protection of persons with mental disorders. Does Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Minister of Health, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, it is my pleasure to be able to, after truly intense exchanges of views yesterday on committees and this morning, proceed with a debate in principle, confident that your thinking, through the amendment of the texts of these laws that give you a significant contribution to quality and that all of us citizens of Serbia, as potential patients, or patients, will benefit from the application of these two laws that are on the agenda. The aim of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights is, in fact, related to several segments, of which I will point out two. First of all, we think it is good to regulate patient rights issues in one place, rather than in several laws under our legislation. The fact is that in a large number of laws, above all in the Health Protection Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation and other laws, there are those provisions that actually apply to the protection of patients' rights, but the fact is also that this was partly done with different aspects and that a single law can do so in a qualitative way and that in application we can benefit greatly from that. On the other hand, our need to standardise ourselves with international legislation and Akikomunita is the second reason, as well as the fact that the Roman Charter as a basic document, on which we have relied heavily, and a whole series of declarations and other acts ratified by this National Assembly obliges us to do this standardisation, and that is why we actually made the first version of the bill in early November and organised a public debate involving about a thousand individuals, representatives of different institutions, representatives of the patient association, associations of citizens, communities, all professional associations related to the question of patients and their rights and a huge number of consultations. In this broad discussion, I can conclude that 40 individuals and 10 institutions in writing or in writing, and one and the other were correct, delivered their suggestions and we respected a huge number of these suggestions, and the draft law itself in its defined version seemed incomparably qualityier than that initial step when we set out in the public debate. In a debate that lasted in November and December, we also received some suggestions, but also dilemmas. It is up to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to help with your definitive statement in the selection of better solutions, because what you decide in the voting day will be the definitive text of these laws. What is essential from those segments of the law, or provisions that already existed in different laws? There are 12 rights and all 12 rights have been transferred more or less in unchanged form. Your suggestions that this segment change were not respected because the concept of these laws, which regulate these rights, would have had to change significantly, and for the suggestion to start from amending and supplementing the Health Insurance and Health Insurance Act first, and then to regulate the questions of patients' rights and persons with mental disturbances, it was not possible because, when it comes to these basic laws, the Health Insurance and Health Insurance Act, when it comes to these two laws, they require fundamental reforms by matured many conditions in Serbia that are not directly related to the health segment and incomparably different financial support for the realization of otherwise extraordinary ideas. So, on reforms and fundamental changes to basic laws, we started to work, but we can't change laws and bring new ones if we prejudge that good solutions are not applicable for objective reasons. On the other hand, some new rights, arising from the documents that we ratified in this home, I would like to point out in particular. It is the content of seven new patient rights, namely: the rights to preventive measures, the quality of the provision of health services, patient safety, second expert opinion, relief of suffering and pain, the right of a child in stationary health institutions and the right of a patient to leave a stationary health institution on his own responsibility. What it really is is the spirit of this law, and which is why I think it's really one matter that needs to be innovative, creative and useful, it's a partner relationship. We talk a lot about health reforms, and in fact the aim of legislative activity should be to increase in practice our own responsibility to each of us for our own health and health in the environment. In that sense, the partner relationship between a therapist and a patient represents one essential newspaper, in which the patient not only has rights but also has obligations. His most important rights are looked at in that he should be familiar with all segments preventive early and later diagnosed procedures, therapeutic procedures and rehabilitation, that he should decide together with the therapist and expert teams on the application of medical measures, that he should actually accept certain procedures to ensure that the health function of the person is at a higher level, but in case he does not respect them, that the therapist at times when the patient is not at risk may suggest a patient to seek another therapist. Therefore, it is necessary for the patient to take responsibility for improving his own health and to increase the level of care for his own health through the application of early diagnostic methods which are actually a prerequisite for better health of our entire population, as in both the region and the world. Another important moment I would like to point out is the fact that many citizens of Serbia, and we are all potentially patients, because anyone who asks for any service from a domain of prevention, diagnosis, therapy, rehabilitation or participation, where health care can be performed can also be healthy, because preventive measures are also health measures, they move to the initiative of professional teams. So health measures are measures proposed by experts, they are all involved as potential patients, i.e. patients, but a significant number of our citizens and they do not know what their rights are. We think it is a good idea for a patient's right counselor to be a graduate lawyer with five years of least working experience, a person who will have a medical education to what the Ministry of Health commits, who will physically be located in local communities or in municipalities of cities and municipalities, because it is believed that, in fact, local communities and should make the greatest contribution to the realisation of better health programmes than it has been so far, and that they should have incomparably more connections with the institutions whose founders, and these are the homes of health, where 80% of health services should be completed. The advisor is a person who has legal education, so he's a lawyer, but it's a person who needs to have the necessary education, and we've already had a pilot program, and I can tell you that the application of this pilot project has produced quite good results, but it has also determined the dimensions of the work being done in a local community. It's not such a big deal, which doesn't mean that it's not going to change in the perspective, and that maybe it won't be necessary for a person to deal with the business exclusively. What I'm saying is that, and the tendency of law-makers at this point is not to increase the employment of the administration of lawyers, but that perhaps those who are already working in the congregations will be engaged in part-time these jobs as well. Of course, the first year will be the year in which we follow the law. And what it is is the fact that many units of local self-government have also chosen health advice, so when a counselor doesn't do or does a job, that he needs a consultation, he can also address the advice of the local self-government unit. The council is, as you know, made up of a councilman. Representatives of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, patient associations are on the council. It's a good thing it's not uniform everywhere, because in endemic areas it's a kind of association, in some other way, so actually, that other newspaper is the transfer of the patient to his rights and health care institutions, because in some ways, his headmaster was there, so a health worker. Somehow it associated a little with the conflict of positions, it seems to us that the home of citizens of every community community is the place where that person should be physically located, in order to do his job properly. When it comes to the Law on the Protection of People with Mental Disturbation, I would like to say that the destigation of this subpopulation of patients, the protection of their most essential human rights and the tendency to modern currents of profession and science engaged in practical life has found its place in the provisions of this law. In this law, in principle, I would particularly like to point out two moments. The first is related to the fact that people with mental disorders, and that can certainly be any one of us, or someone close to us, each has their own mental illness threshold, are in rather poor conditions with the feeling that they are second-row patients and in many more developed countries than ours are often treated. It is unfortunately also our fact and not rarely happens that spatial conditions, human conditions, equipment and all other elements for the diagnosis of these diseases, for valid diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation are somehow in our programs in second, third, fourth place. But the most prominent job in contact with people who belong to the category of persons with mental disorders is to take away one of the most elementary human rights, the right to freedom, therefore, forced hospitalization. The law deals with the treatment of this problem in a way that sets a single criterion when it can happen. Only when because of pathology, a person’s illness can endanger himself physically, his health, or physically, can endanger persons from the environment, or their health. There are no other circumstances in which a psychiatrist, and this law stipulates that it must be a psychiatrist, therefore, the most professionally competent person defines himself in the interest of protecting the patient, in his best interest to forcely hospitalize him even though he does not have the insight that it is necessary. The time limits for how long it may take are such that the patient's real interest and his free will is as soon as he is able to show it out and that, on the basis of his free will, he further concludes that I am a patient at those times when he becomes able to rationally conclude, and evaluate professional teams, within psychiatric institutions and experts, he immediately does so. Of course, here we found it extremely important to co-operate with the judiciary and the time terms within which the court needs to make a statement, possibly to make a statement, that the measure of compulsory treatment of such a person should be expressed, that it was not easy to co-operate and talk. Because we felt that the efforts of our colleagues and co-workers from the judiciary were also necessary for these cases to begin within three days, the judges must take appropriate actions at the stationary, so at the hospital, in a medical institution where the patient is hospitalized and must begin the hearing and begin the procedure. With some fellow Members of Parliament and psychiatrists, I have had the opportunity to talk, of course, about this very sensitive segment and many have suggested that the period be shorter or longer. One of the instructions is an argument as to why it is many and three days, others have said it is not possible in all of Serbia for three days, as our psychiatric institutions of the hospital type are located quite far and physically from the places where judicial persons are engaged. By the end of this year, however, it should be possible by introducing IT to allow such communication, including communication in psychiatric institutions, so that it is not such a big problem. Croatians, for example. Do it. I hope this three-day deadline, as soon as we create the conditions, but we need to pass a law that we need to apply in six months. So this deadline will be shorter. Another very sensitive question, in people with mental disorders, is extremely significant when applied so-called. a measure of isolation and physical fixation. It must be under strict professional supervision, it must be recorded in the law on the records we plan to bring. By the end of this year, this area will be specially processed, every hour when the person is fixed, medical teams must show, not only insight and notation, which is why the patient is possibly in such a state, but must assess incomparably more frequently and when the patient is able to remove this measure. So these may be the two most sensitive segments that regulate the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, and I will be very much in the mood to take part today in the principle debate and, of course, in the debate on your amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15606	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15607	I would like to give you a report, to inform you that the Committee on Health and Family has discussed these two proposed laws, that I am very glad that today we have the opportunity to talk about the Law on Patients' Rights, that there has been a bill on the protection of the rights of patients that I have written in the Serbian Parliament since 18 September. I am pleased that I have positively provoked the Ministry of Health's leadership to write another version of the Bill on the Protection of Patients' Rights, a very important law discussed on the Committee on Health and Family. I am very pleased to inform you that at the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family, there were associations of citizens, associations of parents, children suffering from malignancies, associations of patients, so that they participated actively, made suggestions, proposed amendments to this bill. What is most important and important to me, is to say that Serbia's citizens have clearly given a message to this country and this ministry to their humanitarian actions for Tijana, for little Christine, that our rights are our rights, that the rights of patients in Serbia are threatened, and that this law is slowly introducing order into this problem, so it is a good thing that today and tomorrow we are going to talk about patients' rights in Serbia, which have been at great risk over the past 20 years. I also want to tell you that there are a solid number of amendments from the MPs, which will be discussed by the Assembly Committee on Health and Family next week. I would like to give information that Mr Sabic, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data yesterday, was invited by my side to a meeting of the Health and Family Committee, that we also adopted his suggestions and that at the next meeting of the Committee on Health and Family we would vote and that would be a proposal from our Committee to the Republic Government, towards the Ministry and certainly to Parliament to adopt this law to be updated and that this law would really be in the interest of our citizens. I will conclude once again by saying that Serbia's citizens have made it clear to Tijana's heart that the rights of patients in Serbia are compromised and that we must sincerely and honestly defend those rights in this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15608	Thank you. Now authorized representatives. In turn, First National MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15609	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, members of the Government, I am above all pleased that today we are discussing two extremely important draft laws, two draft laws that are vital to our society. What's good is, first of all, the Law on Patients' Rights, in one unique way, actually groups and regulates one law, as some newspapers are introduced in the sense that some new patients' rights are introduced for the first time. It is doubtless a very good idea, that the law is written without any confusion, without contradiction, that it is understandable to everyone that it is shallow and easy to read, but it seems to me that despite all these good points, at least on the issue of both of these draft laws, although it will likely come to their adoption here in parliament in the voting day, I think it will remain only a letter on paper, I doubt that it will unfortunately not experience or be able to experience, however you wish. In 2012, when we talk about the quality of health care in our country, it was last placed on the list of 34 European countries, according to the European Consumer Health Index. When we talk about patients' rights, these patients' rights, whatever they may be, whether it's 12 or some future law of 22, it's never but I can never separate myself from the question of access to patients, which unfortunately is in our country at one defeating level, and I'm going to let myself say, almost offensive. That our entire health system is desperate, it's unquestionable, and everyone can be sure at every step, that's the truth that needs to be spoken publicly, and the everyday life is there, of course, to confirm it. Of course, as much as it is allocated to health insurance, the quality of services is, in one word, desperate. Doctors' salaries are of course miserable, but given the work they do and their long-term education, it all has consequences for what has been in health for the past few years or decades, however undisputed, and this is the phenomenon of enormous corruption, which unfortunately cannot be contained in health, which is primarily developed in certain branches of medicine, but given the very advanced corruption, it should not be surprising. Furthermore, the European Commission continues to view our country as a leading country in terms of healthcare corruption. A good part of the problem, these are of course all the criticisms not sent to you, you have entered a place where you are left with enough problems by your predecessors, but a good part of the problem certainly lies in the poor management of the health system. I wish the minister would listen to me after I followed her closely. Nice to meet you. I think a good part of the problem lies in the poor management of the health system, because it is managed by doctors. As Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, the authorised promoter here, fully noted and in fact rightly concluded that it is necessary for the right of patients to be a lawyer, then the question arises, why are healthcare institutions or individual, in fact, almost all clinical centres managed by doctors? Why is the management of the system left to doctors, they're not trained for it? Why doesn't the management of a clinical center be left to an economist or, for example, a manager, someone who's been educated for such a thing? Probably because doctors would rebel against something like that and because probably what I would say would be declared heresy in the world for those who don't know it, and I know, that's the rule. Large clinical centres are managed by economists, managed by managers, managed by lawyers, not by doctors, and not by reason because it is seen precisely from the aspect of some profitability of health care, but because these categories of people are trained to do exactly what they were trained to do, to lead, to monitor and control the functioning of a very large system such as health care, and doctors are invited to do their primary profession. Of course, the work of these professionals, I mean, above all, economists, managers and lawyers, is always being watched and always controlled by the ministries in most countries, not just the health ministry, but other ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance, etc. However, our problem with our country is that, of course, everyone wants to be both directors and managers, and for that, we only have bad laws, we have some imaginary solutions, there's some list of nice desires, irrational spending of money, etc. Also, in your address to us, you mentioned one moment and Croatia. I'm going to mention it at this point, since I've been doing some administrative analysis. If we look at neighbors, almost everyone has an absolutely better health system and absolutely everyone is better ranked than us. Croatia is just the most ranked for the quality of health services, because there health services are constantly working on improving health services, which seems to be by purchasing new equipment, as many doctors as possible, by specialising these doctors, which is the establishment of international connections by their improvement, etc. The categorisation of hospitals by quality was also carried out in Croatia. So, a kind of state-level list was made. A line has been entered in the waiting lists. There are also recipes and what you mentioned, which should be introduced to us through IT technology. The citizens' information on their rights has been fully improved, the possibility of complaints about their services is given, which is also permitted by such a bill. A complete reorganisation of the emergency service network with capacity expansion has been carried out. All year’s medical services of emergency helicopter assistance, etc. have been introduced for the transport of patients. There's something similar about our other neighbor, and that's Slovenia. What seems to me to be that our biggest problems are precisely in the overall health system in the first place is a complete anachronic organization of health care which, I think, hasn't changed in years, as well as health insurance, then insufficient professionalisation of doctors and one intolerance instead of reconciliation and instead of complementarity of the state and private medical sector. We have, of course, catastrophic conditions in health institutions. We can also read about it daily, which through the media, what to inform ourselves about via television. I've already talked about corruption. We have, of course, very bad conditions for the work of all health workers and we have, at least so far, had, a huge public deception actually about some rights that only confuse the users of health care until, of course, they come to a particular health institution or a certain home of health, and they don't realize that all of these, under the circumstances, have to be ironic, powerful rights, which are guaranteed by the supposed health book. They don't really work and serve anything. As for the right patients, here I'm going to give you some of the right patients, so you're going to figure out whether it can be classified in the realm of law at all, let's say, the House of Health of Obrenovac. Some of the rights in the House of Health of the Obrenovac that you are accomplishing there are next. First of all, you've been waiting all day for a doctor to prescribe a prescription. Secondly, if you don't have a doctor selected, and you may not have a doctor because they've lost your medical records, if you need them urgently, they can't find her, because she's just lost her seppa, wait one or six months to a year. Then you have to wait two to five days for that other doctor, no matter what kind of health problem you have. At the endocrinologist's or ophthalmologist's checkup, you have to wait longer than a month. That's where the patient's rights are. On simple blood tests, you actually have to wait two days for the results of the blood analysis. In a private, of course, you get the same blood test results the same day. If you call an ambulance, and I'll be subjective here, I'll speak for myself, it comes from 10-15 minutes, and if you're living 300 meters away from home, and it's great if a doctor comes to you in a sanitary car next to a driver, not just a driver who tells you that he came to inform you that the doctor's gone because they're somewhere on the ground, and he can't help because he's not a doctor, but a driver. They're real patients, or whatever you want, in the House of Health in Obrenovac. Now I'm going to tell you about the individual rights of patients at the Clinical Center, and they're next, here in Belgrade. You've been waiting for months for an artificial hip surgery or an artificial knee surgery. Of course, even though we have trained doctors, it's undeniable, we don't have organ transplant equipment. Let's say we don't have pancreas transplant equipment or heart transplants. For certain rare diseases, there are no medications. Let's say, for Batten's disease. It's a very small number of nurses. It's a very small accommodation capacity, actually a small number of beds. In some health institutions, there is no climate, no heat in winter, or there is very little heating. There's an unspeakable crowd at the oncology clinic. You can't even imagine how big, and you've been waiting for surgery inappropriately long, provided you get a good diagnosis. About the length of the wait to install the stent or, for example, for the installation of a gastro-tether, especially for people who come from the interior, they wait inappropriately long. I don't think there's any need to talk about it anymore. It seems to me that almost every single member of this bill on patients' rights, unfortunately, the reality sort of defuses, although they are so very beautiful to read. I wish they could live in practice and really start this law. I'm a skeptic, I've already said that, and I don't think that's going to happen unfortunately, but I have to point to some. First, the patient's right to information is often, at least so far it's happened, that it's actually the right patient to a certain kind of lie. Now, the difference is the kind of lie that a patient is told. Sometimes it's a lie out of ignorance. For example, you're treated for bronchitis, and you actually have a cancer of esophageals or treats, say, severe throat allergy, and you actually have cancer of the throat. Sometimes it's a pity lie. For example, they do a biopsy, they send a cut to a histopathological report telling you it'll be over 10 days to two weeks, and then it's a month, and then it's two months, and you can't get your report, because they can't tell a patient what patients don't want to hear, and that's just a waste of time, which is the only resource for every sick man that no single doctor and healthcare professional can spend for a second. Article 9 provides for the quality of providing health institutions where, among other things, the last sentence also lists the human attitude towards the patient. I agree it should exist. It's natural, I guess, that there is, but if, for example, a patient who's immobilized to lie down, who's been in prison for three weeks, and such a patient gets, for example, a sepsis of the bowels, it's hard to talk about a human relationship with a patient. These are just examples. Some of them I speak objectively, some of them from other people's experiences, some from personal experience. Article 14 provides for the right to privacy and confidentiality, which, unfortunately, are today unscrupulously violated. I'm a witness to that, and all MPs are witnesses to that. I think you're witnessing it, too. I certainly know that in certain cases these rights are being violated precisely by healthcare professionals, health associates, even people who are employed in health institutions. Article 20 provides for the right of insight into medical documentation. I'm very interested in how, for example, such a right will come true? What happens in those situations when you simply disappear your medical records when your medical records disappear, and let's say you urgently need it? Article 21 regulates the right to confidentiality of patient health data. This is where the question arises, and how is it that we, little by means of public information we read about the state of health and the details of a person's health, don't have to be from the sphere of politics, for example, a public figure? The question arises, so who delivers them to the media? Here, I will answer you – usually they are delivered by persons who are employed in health institutions. Of course you have a very difficult task ahead of you to deal with. I hope you're aware yourself that at this point we have one completely irrational, one completely inadequate, one wrongly set health system that doesn't even follow the needs of our population that we don't have enough separations, that many major health systems don't pay for health insurance at all. Of course, a huge amount of money goes to those public procurements, which are not controlled in any way. The fact is that today many villages in the country of Serbia are without even a single doctor, while in cities nearly thousands of doctors are unemployed. The only light in all of this is our doctors who are expert. Of course, among them there are dolls to be removed, as well as health staff with well-intentioned knowledge, but they are poorly equipped and underpaid. I've already said you have a difficult task ahead of you. Of course, for what you've found in health care, you're not responsible. You had something to inherit from your predecessors. You inherited a major disaster and for such a thing your predecessors are responsible for, especially the decade-long expert health minister. You are here, of course, to correct the mistakes of your predecessors and you need to find a way to know and know how to make at least a small step towards the better, and in the interests of the whole society. Namely, as is currently our health system, if there is one at all, or it will collapse itself in that literal sense, so that there will be a physical collapse of health care institutions, some are already physically collapsing, or there will be a collapse due to the scientific segment's point of view, due to the lack of highly profiled professional personnel unless something urgent is taken over. This is reality, and she should be accepted as such. This bill, regardless of its good side, which is uniquely grouped by rights, which is 12, which is introduced by some newspapers and all that, seems to me to be like Andersen's fairy tale, and unfortunately, fairy tales are believed by more single children. After all, in Turkey, say, the average age limit is 16 years. In Serbia, unfortunately, it is not, but is drastically larger. We can lose a year, we can lose two and five years, but then it looks like we only compete in one discipline called mortality. The state of health must be considered immediately, must act immediately, must act today, 24 hours every day, because when it is such a sensitive issue as health care, it seems to me that every tomorrow from the patient's point of view, from the point of view of an ordinary sick man, unfortunately, it is usually too late. As for the proposal for a law on protection of persons with mental disorders, this bill deals primarily with persons who belong to one of the most sensitive categories of the population, so we feel that it is very important that this law be done in the best possible way and we appreciate the effort. In the reasons for the passing of this law, the promoter himself stated that mental disorders endanger more than 25% of people in a particular population. Also, today's stressful way of life leads to a number of people suffering from depression, suffering from other diseases, which also fall into mental disorders, and it is necessary to bring this law with as few disadvantages as possible and to accept the amendments on which it will be, of course, discussed in particular. Among them are very high-quality to bring people from this group into a better position. First of all, it should be pointed out that the changes made in relation to the draft law are good, and first of all, I mean the part relating to the deadlines in the work concerning the retention of persons with mental disorders without their consent. However, there seem to be some other gaps I have to point to. In view of the state of health and other institutions, which, in particular, is particularly bad, is the poor condition of institutions dealing with this category of population, it is necessary to provide for other types of treatment that are more involved in the family and should take place in the community. Of course everything depends on the degree and the type of disease itself. Also, it seems to me that as a lack, there is also a way in which it is organized under the precepts of treating children with mental disorders. The minors certainly belong to one special category of population, persons with less than 18 years of age with mental disorders, no matter what distractions they may be, I won't mention them here, they certainly deserve more space than one mere listing and they need to be provided for special care compared to the persons older than that age, which I think, by one bill, is not sufficiently done. Unlike the Health Protection Act, children of 15 years of age cannot make their own decisions about their treatment in case of voluntary consent, and I think they should dedicate one special head to children. We believe that such a bill is on the right track and that we want it to live in practice, but certainly there is plenty more room for it to work out, especially in terms of the good amendments that I have already mentioned and that you should consider, how they would be adopted, and in order to make more contribution and help people with mental disturbances and above all help people with mental disorders, and then to make one shift in terms of their inclusion in one completely normal life flows precisely for those reasons that you yourself have stated, and that is not to be viewed as so far, as you have stated, as citizens of the second order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15610	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15611	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Presidency, Madam Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we have heard in the presentation of the honourable minister, the reason for the adoption of a special law on the protection of patients' rights is actually one basic need for patients' rights, their way of achieving and protecting these same rights offices now in a more complete and precise way. Let's face it, unfortunately, it is not a rare situation in practice to deny or make it difficult for citizens in the field of health insurance and health care, as well as for the quality of the health services provided to be low. Despite the huge problems in achieving health care, I must stress that during the very short term of the new health ministry, progress can be seen in solving various problems, as well as improving the way various health institutions work as well as the health ministry itself and the Fund. However, this does not change the fact that a large number of citizens still face daily problems in achieving the right to health care and health insurance. The size and number of problems mentioned in healthcare does not leave much room for satisfaction. We believe that it would be normal for the price paid by the Fund, for various types of services, that patients should have the best medical service and continue to need or do not need to know whether the sector or body within the same ministry is responsible for handling their various complaints, applications and that patients themselves should not suffer the consequences of the transfer of jurisdiction. It is inadmissible to transfer each other to the competent authorities for the conduct of inspection controls in health institutions. To go back to a concrete legislative proposal. First of all, I'd like to talk about the bill on patients' rights, so if time allows me as an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group and the second proposal, the rights of persons with mental disorders. Prevention is necessary and it is the first step towards the successful treatment of certain diseases. It is therefore very important that the right to prevention is specifically mentioned here and that the healthcare institution has an obligation to implement preventive measures, raise people's awareness and provide health services at appropriate intervals. First of all, here as a woman, I must commend the fact that the Republic Health Insurance Fund has again established this year the right to a preventive examination for early detection of breast and uterus cancer between 25 and 69 years of life, one year, and not once every three years. This law for the first time established the right of the patient to leave the health care institution on his own responsibility, as well as the right of the child in the stationary health institutions and what may be interesting for all of us, the right to a second expert opinion, as the right of the patient to seek a second expert opinion on the state of his health from both the doctor and the dentist himself. The patient is guaranteed the same right to quality health care according to his health condition, which sounds good, but the second part - all within the limits of the material capabilities of the health care system, which, unfortunately, as we all know, we are all aware, that they are not something big right now. Therefore, the patient is entitled to appropriate medical services to preserve and improve his health, prevent, suppress and early detection of the disease. The next right to be determined is the right to respect the patient's time, which implies that in the event that there are no conditions for the medical service to be provided immediately, the patient is entitled to an appointment of the examination, diagnostic examinations and similar procedures and that the healthcare institution is obliged to respect the patient's time and to notify him in good time in case of a change in the time period of providing the scheduled medical service. We think this is one of the biggest shortcomings in our system, one of the biggest problems. We all know that certain reviews are scheduled, even for a few months, not to say even more than a year in advance, and that they're terrible waiting lists. Personally for an elderly patient, I tried to ask around and sometimes they tell you – go in private because you are not such an emergency that you ever get in line for a magnetic resonance or anything else. Therefore, we believe that special attention should be paid to the way and function of the appointment of certain specialist and diagnostic examinations. What is one of the major newspapers that introduces this proposal is that if a patient considers that he is deprived of the right to health care or is deprived of any right to healthcare by a healthcare professional or associate, he has the right to object. This could have happened earlier in the past few years, but this solution is now moving this patient's right from the health care facility itself to a local self-government unit in line with the decentralisation of health care, which we support, in accordance with the transfer of the founding rights of health homes to local self-government units. So the protection of patients' rights in this way is resolved in a completely new way and the units of local self-government will be to determine the person, this graduate lawyer who has been mentioned here many times today, who will be a consultant for the protection of patients' rights. Data is the possibility that a patient's right counsellor is doing this job for several units of local self-government. Of course, you're probably thinking of smaller units of local self-government here. These jobs, as we heard, were done in the previous period by graduate lawyers, but they were physically sitting, or they belonged to the healthcare organization itself, and these jobs were mostly done as additional, because it was very interesting when we look at how the Civil Protection Officer's report, as well as the various official data, preparing for this debate, I was a little interested in data, the number of complaints from various patients was very low, small and probably not because they had no problems, objections, but probably few know about this right. They mainly carried out their jobs as an additional one and, therefore, are now proposed to organise the local self-government itself in the future, that there will be a sufficient number of already existing graduate lawyers working within local self-government and that they will be able to carry out tasks. We'll see when this law comes into effect. In any case, the SVM considers it necessary to provide a sufficient number of experts who can really seriously deal with complaints from citizens, i.e. patients and the protection of their rights. We have recently discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a law concerning persons with disabilities. At the time, we specifically talked about the employment and professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities. I must stress that, as far as the normative framework is concerned, we have in the past few years brought quite good regulations, as well as government, to lay such a normative basis for the achievement and protection of rights and persons with disabilities. But we are witnessing this, we must say, that members of this particularly sensitive social group of people with disabilities have a lot of difficulties and that they face complex problems daily, which prevent them from achieving their rights and achieving the desired level of social inclusion. Persons with disabilities in our country face problems with the exercise of rights both on social and on health care. The causes of failure to exercise these rights are mainly existing prejudices towards these people, discrimination and "unavailability" of the right of all. That there is a need for a solution to both the normative and the practical or real state of rights of persons with disabilities also proves that only the Ministry of Health has proposed this second proposal, to pass a special law on the rights of persons with mental disorders. As we have heard, the basic reason for the adoption of this law on the rights of persons with mental disorders is precisely to establish a higher level of quality of protection of mental health in line with modern achievements in this area. We from SVM welcome the fact that if we can adequately apply this good law, that this should ensure the protection of human rights and social inclusion of people with mental disorders. Unfortunately, since we were able to read how in this explanation, and from other sources, not a small number of those who suffer from various mental disorders. Among the most often and most incapacitating should be added interference due to the abuse of psychoactive substances that are increasing and larger – epilepsy etc. These faces are precisely the most sensitive to the violation of their basic human rights, and the other citizens, if I may say so, are very inclined to view them as different, as perhaps dangerous, which very often leads to the isolation of these people. That is why it is extremely important that this regulation prohibits discrimination based on mental disorders and any abuse, neglect, exploitation, abuse or humiliating behaviour toward these persons. The general public is almost unaware of the role of the social network of the family and the community itself in the recovery and maintenance of a quality life of persons with mental disorders, and that it is extremely important for them to be involved in the family environment, labour and social environment, while respecting their personal choices, if possible, the removal whenever possible of persons in psychiatric hospitals and social protection institutions in the primary social environment should ensure their social inclusion and protection of fundamental human rights. In fact, many of the negative consequences of the long-term detention of people with mental disorders in dislocated psychiatric hospitals, which still exists on the ground. In many cases these patients are not fired from psychiatric hospitals when they stop the need for their hospital treatment, and precisely because an adequate system has not been established in their community to provide adequate health care and social support for them. Such patients, many of whom have been imprisoned not for months, but for years, have been completely released from the regular social environment. Over time, they become less and less similar, sometimes completely incapable of later social inclusion. It is also prescribed that a person with mental disorders has the right to protect and improve mental health through prevention, care, treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation in appropriate health and other institutions. It is also prescribed that persons with mental disorders have the right to equal treatment conditions, which are appropriate to their health needs, under the same conditions as any other health service users. However, somehow it is realistic, it is evident that for now these patients were not encouraged enough to participate in making decisions relevant to their stay and treatment. As I have already mentioned in the previous law, taking into account official data that point to very small, and I can say the minimum number of complaints referred to by the patient's rights protectors, in this case we do not specifically know about the retention of persons with mental disorders or their treatment in hospitals, it can be concluded that persons with mental disorders, which were currently or in the past placed in psychiatric hospitals, are not adequately taught about their rights and protective mechanisms. Treatment of persons with mental disorders has been established in psychiatric institutions and in health homes. More specifically, it is envisaged that in these health institutions, organisational units will be educated to carry out mental health protection tasks. It is prescribed that the treatment and protection of mental disorders is adapted to each person with mental disorders, especially and that the treatment of these persons is done according to them adjusted so-called. an individual plan. What was respected by the Minister of Health in the introductory part and said that when an expert, doctor or psychiatrist estimated that due to mental disorders, a particular person was dangerous for his safety, for his health or for the health and safety of other persons, they could be placed in psychiatric institutions and without his consent, or coercion, but only if there were no less restrictive means to provide health care. The Union of Duchy Hungarians certainly welcomes that such treatment, as well as the resociation of the protection of interests and rights of persons with mental disorders, are carried out in the least restrictive environment, and all in accordance with the needs of these persons, so we also support the efforts of the Ministry of Health in the adoption of these two new laws and we sincerely hope that you will have even more vigorous measures in the future to monitor and implement these laws and that they will be fully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15612	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15613	Dear Minister, members of the ministry, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, today I will first discuss the Law on Patients' Rights and then the Second Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. We need a law like this. That is a fact, and that is why I think that the members of the Parliament club are together for Serbia, along with certain adjustments that we have made through some 11 amendments, ready to seriously consider this law and ultimately give their support. What is very important and what we would like to hear from you today is – do you have a plan? How can this law, which should not be one declaration of rights, which is not or cannot have its application in practice, be applied in practice? I will later go through all the rights that are numbered in the law, try to see how things really work in life, and then see how they could really be applied, and that, after all, when this is over, when this law starts to apply, our citizens benefit from it. So it's very important that we have that plan. I hope after that we can exchange ideas about how you think this plan can work and how it needs to work and what is the deadline within which this law will be or will have to be applied. Before we even go on about rights, I'd like to get back to the end of last year when we talked about it. That's when you made an important step, I'd really appreciate it. It was this story about introducing private pharmacies into the system. I think it gives a new quality and an offer to our citizens, but we didn't have a plan here either. Since we don't have a plan, then we have a situation between Prince Michael and Slavia we have five private drugstores from the same firm, but that's why we don't have that firm in Zaguvica or Sjenica. They just don't have any interest in it. We care very much, because we're talking about public interest and we're talking about availability of health, I don't know why we don't have that drug network plan, and then someone who gets the possibility of having five pharmacies in such an exclusive location would have to open one in Žaguvica, for example, or somewhere around Leskovec. It seems to me that all the good locations or all the good opportunities to earn, I don't mind someone earning, get those who have the opportunity to do so, but the state pharmacies, which have to respect the Public Procurement Act, will have to fill those holes, and these holes have. We're pushing for reform, for this reform to be quality and good, but there's a plan. Without a plan, we'll do nothing. Next thing you know, when we talked about these public procurements, I told you there'd be some shortages of drugs. That's what happened. We have a situation where you can buy medicine from a D-list called aminophrine at a market, not a pharmacy. Like the situation of late vaccines in health homes, so we can't do mandatory immunization. We agree that we need good things, that we need serious reform, and this law could be the first step. If we get into the fact that we need a serious law, like this law, then we really expect it to apply. I'd start with this first right, and that's the right to be available for healthcare. Before we go on about it, I would ask you – do you know what the working time of the health homes in Serbia is? Is there a unique working time established anywhere, or is it from municipality to municipality, from home of health to home of health? When we talk about the availability of healthcare, it primarily means that we have some doctors that citizens know they're working for a while. Do they work two shifts or one shift and how to regulate it? What I think we need next to this law, which is the health care law and hospital law. So let's try to regulate what it offers us every home of health as a set of health services and what the hospital offers as a secondary level of health care. If we have such a law, then we will have the same set of services in all the homes of health and then we come up with that principle of equality and solidarity throughout the country, and it will not happen that somewhere in some richer municipalities they offer us one, and in some poor people they offer nothing. The next thing is very important, which concerns the availability of healthcare, which is how secondary health care through primary care is usually available to the world. Now you mentioned here that, you mentioned on the Health Committee, actually from the DILS project to finance the training of a person who will do protection, or counselling. I think it would be good if that money that was originally meant to be invested in information. Let's quickly connect primary and secondary health care and then when the patient comes to his chosen physician at the moment, not him, but his doctor schedules him with a specialist doctor. Let's do it right now. It doesn't take much time. I think that network system is halfway there. Let's speed it up, and then we get a situation so our patient doesn't be a postman, so he wears under the mouse footage, find, instructions, recipes, and even if something happens to him on the way, he's in big trouble. At the same time, we'll have feedback, so the chosen doctor will be able to react very quickly. I think we should invest that money. The next thing you know, it's a very important thing, and that's the right to preventative checks. It's a very important thing and I see that you've predicted it here through campaigns, through periodic checks, and through special attention to risk groups. It's okay. How you, or how you plan to allow these reviews to be conducted regularly or periodically, and how our chosen doctor will have the awareness that this is very important. It is very important for you to be aware of the doctor’s need to conduct preventive examinations to link him to his earnings. I think that's the key thing. Our doctors will not invite patients to preventive examinations because according to this report, which I have, it is a report by the Health Council of Serbia, doctors have been selected in the medical scale at the lowest level and by respect and by profit. They won't do preventive checks, and you yourself said that the focus of the health system should be on primary health care. If you're going to be on primary health care and if they're going to do 80% of the work, they need to know that they're going to make some money out of it. They won't do it for this money. I think that's okay. Let's connect our awareness that they should be doing preventive checks with their earnings. Now I'm giving you a proposal to make a quality factor service price. The factor price of the service will allow doctors to earn more and then they will not send a specialist doctor for the most ordinary examinations they can do in their infirmary. So we're gonna cut down on the specialist doctors and let them deal with those professional things that they need to deal with. I know it's not easy, and I know it takes time. I understand, but if we were to leave sooner, we'd rather finish the job. Another very important thing, and as far as this prevention is concerned, it's actually a captainial formula. This capitation formula that we're having right now is not good. She's destimulating. It forces our doctors not to work or to work less, and even if they do something, so they dare to prescribe a better cure, their wages will be lower and eventually we will end up round by making our patients worse. Instead of doing something good for the patients, we're doing a lot of bad things for them. You should think about it. That's why I've spoken more than once, I don't want you to mind me, I didn't have a bad intention, and I can see that you showed good intentions when you solved that mushroom problem and applied medicine to patients. I see your good intentions, but I care about solving these problems. With the captainial formula, the system needs to change. Our system is massive and slow and inefficient. We have a situation where when a scanner breaks down, for example. The scanner at the hospital in Loznica, the radiologists who work, there are three or four of them, the hospital in Loznica will receive a salary even though the scanner doesn't work and they won't do scans, they will have the same salary as the radiologists in Šapac who will receive these patients from Loznica. This means that our system is unable to react to change or is unable to remove the problem quickly. Anyway, it's not good anyway, so let's see what we can do to change that. Another very important thing is the right to notice and that's a good thing. It's right here that a doctor should give a patient notice of a variety of things, it's very important to me, and I'll read, "A patient or a legal representative has the right to inform and see the costs of treating a patient. ". How's he gonna get that notice? No selected doctor knows what the price is. I don't think most people in the O.R. or citizens know what the real price is. The right price for a doctor's first checkup is 320 dinars. It's cheaper than a hairdresser's place to go, cheaper than anything else. Could it be the same doctor's work in primary health care and hairdressing? Why is that? Because no one showed, in that invoice price, the price of the doctor's work, the cost of the costs, the price of electricity, water, telephone, maintenance price, the price of transport, and when we add up, we'll get to one quality price. What will give us that price? It's the same invoice price I was talking about. It will enable us to slowly start introducing the private sector into primary health care and then we will get the next right that stands here, which is the right to quality. When we have a private sector, a real invoice price, we'll also have quality, and then we'll have a situation that we won't have doctors in primary health care of state institutions that work and in private practice. Then they have to decide whether to go there or here for the same money. I think it's correct and it's another kind of reform that I don't see why we shouldn't do. You did it with pharmacies, though, without a plan, but let's do this with a plan, and we'll get somewhere. I'll say a few more things that are very important, and it concerns the procedures themselves. The procedures will treat waiting problems, patient's time and so on, when doctors have precise procedures that are not a matter of willful application, I will or won't apply them at some point, and procedures in prescription medications. Perhaps then our patients will wait less, it will cost less our health care system. Another very important thing, we wrote some amendments here. I think they are completely different from what you predicted in this law, but my idea was to show you that things can work differently and that we try to get one institution, which I think is one of the most hated institutions when we talk about health, which is the Republic Health Insurance Fund, to try to bring it closer to the citizens. Why? The Republic Health Insurance Fund doesn't like patients, and neither do doctors, I can even say that some people hate it. There's no reason for that, because so far, that republican fund has been a closed facility and acted like a bank. If there are enough employees in that fund, why don't you employees who know the best of all health laws and health insurance are those patient rights advisers, for one simple reason. You with the application, that way, you can start tomorrow. It can start tomorrow. The way you imagined it would work in about six months to a year, it might cost a little bit. This is how patients, who are 90-95% of cases of insurance of the Republic Fund, should start to experience the same fund as their own institution, because it is, so when they have a problem, and you're already here in the procedure that those in the second degree can turn when they're not satisfied with the consultant, they can turn to the fund, that's how it is. Let that republican fund open its doors, become the home of its insurance companies, so that they come for advice. You see, they pay for it, we all pay for that fund. That fund pays for the treatment through us. Then why don't we close the circle? Then why don't we ask him whom we pay and represent, or at least advise us? Believe me, that's where we'll get the best advice. I think that, after a while, if we find that system doesn't work, for example, then we can also think about what a number of MPs stand for, it's that private insurance. And I really don't have any problem with that, but we have to build a system and a network first, and then we're just going to release a private sector, because if we don't, we're going to have confusion. I'll explain all of this in more detail when we talk about amendments to these regulations. I'd say a few things about protecting patients with mental disorders, what's most important here and what seemed important to me. We want to go to Europe, right? Let's go to Europe sometime, maybe even before we get to it. You, I really must commend, hold public debates, include a large number of people, invite the NGO, invite some associations, that's all really commendable, but you didn't quite adopt what they were looking for. Now what they asked you to do, I want to pass it on to you. I'd hate it if after the adoption of such a law of the psychiatric hospital, they were still who they are now. Psychiatric hospitals should be a place to treat mental health problems only if there is no other way to solve such problems, so we can finally open the door for some new institutions. I don't understand why it's happening, I see it's a rule. Bring in one regulation from your jurisdiction, and let's say I don't see anyone from the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. This is a topic in which social policy should be crossed with health care, to include the social work centre sector, home care, home conditions. I can give you an example. Sabac is one of the few cities, as I heard, and the only one who has a special service of home care with mental needs and we do it together, the Centre for Social Work, City Administration and Karitas NGOs and it goes very well. Let's cross that. I don't see any problem doing this, and I see that there are many and many private sectors, as well as NGOs who are willing to take part in it. I think this is a topic for multiple ministries, so we can come up with one quality solution, so it's not good for you to just pay for the health care part, and social protection is just social protection, and then it's separate, and since the payments are from different budgets, then we have a problem with realisation, and eventually that leads to us having nothing. The World Health Organisation and all EU countries are in a more immediate phase of the application of alternative rehabilitation therapies. It's just this, social inclusion, rehabilitation, protected housing, mental health centers, I haven't seen that exist in this law. Let's start with one, and we'll start looking like Europe, and then we'll see where we're going, and we'll get the system ready, but we have to open the door to it. Thank you for your attention. I think through this part of the amendment we'll try to fix. To repeat in the end, what is most important, it is that the MP group Together for Serbia is ready to support this very important law, to pay attention to the amendments we have proposed, because it was indeed a desire to bring health policy closer to citizens and to come to the best-quality solutions, not to be someone who criticises without a proposal and a solution, but to be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15614	The word has a folk MP Vesna Milekić and then Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15615	Dear colleagues, I will take a brief look at the bill on patients' rights. Today we are discussing a bill that was necessary to pass many years earlier, at least at the same time most of the countries in our region have passed similar laws. As MPs, regardless of what policy options they came from or which private interest they were engaged in, we must not disregard laws concerning elementary human rights, the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights is one of such laws. We're all patients, starting from the moment we're born, up to some first contact with health institutions and one of the serious items is that this law changes the very definition of a patient. The patient is no longer considered just a sick person, but is a patient and a healthy person to whom medical services are provided. We are all aware that prevention is mostly more important than any medical achievements in the treatment of certain diseases. It is therefore necessary for healthcare institutions to establish prevention services. Right patients have been regulated by a number of different regulations so far, and their responsibilities have often overlapped. This act regulates the rights and responsibilities of patients, as well as the way in which these rights are protected in a more complete manner, and the regulations are harmonised. What is still very important is that it is in line with European and international standards. The rights of every man can sometimes also be as delicate as this law, which for the first time establishes some new rights, raises some doubts and doubt. For the first time, we're meeting with a paliatical care institution. First of all, I'd like to explain to you the concept of palitative care. The World Health Organization defines paliative care as the active complete care of a patient whose disease no longer responds to treatment. All of us, unfortunately, have met with severely ill people. Many have had the misfortune to tell their loved ones in health care facilities – take him home to die. There is new agony for both a dying man and a family with no medical experience, no medical aids and adequate pain medications. This suffering is multiplying. The goal of introducing palitative care is to achieve the highest possible quality of life for the patient and his family. Of course, pain decreases, but it doesn't in any case lead to euthanasia. On the other hand, we're all human, no matter what sometimes we want our physician to be a god with superpowers and solve all our problems. The eagle around the medical staff, which is slightly separate from the ordinary world, probably dates back to the very beginnings of medicine as science. The Doctor was feared and worshipped. With full respect for all those who deal with this perhaps the most noble profession, and I know that there are a lot of those among us, but doctors themselves sometimes want to keep that mystification and that by keeping the information to themselves the most. This law gives the patient additional assurance that the doctor is obliged to present himself with his name and last name, as well as professional function, but also all medical staff who provide medical services at that time. Also, the doctor is required to provide complete notice of disease, prognosis and treatment. Also, a patient at his request can give up this right if, for example, he does not want to know the details of his illness and prognosis, especially if she is uncertain. We all meet daily with a nightmare if we have to, even for the most meaningless reason to talk to a doctor, which is mostly because of the great waste of time waiting in line to make an appointment. Most often these terms are not respected, so no matter what you have scheduled, let's say, at nine in the morning, you come in order at three or four in the afternoon, if you're lucky. It's an even bigger problem that there aren't enough specialists, so sometimes for emergency checks, it's been waiting months, and then it happens to be delayed without prior notice. Not all retired or job-free patients can take the whole day off and camp out at health centers. There's a lot of people who are in a working relationship, but because of their job obligations, they don't go to a doctor until it's often too late. This act states that the patient's time must be respected and he must be informed of delays and changes in terms. In accordance with the European Charter of Patients' Rights, for the first time, the right to provide health care and the right to patient safety has been established. According to the Otova Declaration, the rights of children who are on long-term treatment have been established for the first time, and now these children are entitled to education and play, visits to close children as far as possible in relation to the condition of the child, as well as the presence of one parent along with it, which may be among the most important factors for the faster and better recovery of the child. In accordance with the Declaration on the Rights of Patients of the World Medical Association, a second expert opinion has also been established. As much as a great expert in his field as anyone is, it is necessary to see a particular medical problem from another perspective, from someone else's experience. So far, patients have largely managed to cope with their own material and social opportunities. Very often they were challenged by a doctor who handled their medical case, and this right allows them to without fear of criticism and disapproval to seek opinions and other doctors. The patient is entitled to leave the health care facility on his own responsibility, but the patient must also respect the rights of other patients, as well as the rights of the healthcare professionals themselves. It is interesting to legalise the presence of medical students during the examination, but it leaves the possibility that the patient will refuse their presence. I've personally been in a situation where medical professors on my case demonstrate to students a certain medical phenomenon. Honestly, I didn't feel at all comfortable about it, but I didn't do any trouble because I just thought that it was really the best way to learn everything, and I comforted myself that I was better off anyway because there are those students in practice who are dissipating. The paper is also the organisation of a patient rights adviser and a health advice in local self-government units. Medical institutions have had patients' rights protectors so far, but are they all employees of these institutions, and most often cannot tell whose rights he actually protects – patients or institutions themselves? I believe that patients were largely convinced that he was protecting the sole rights of the institution, especially when he was employed there, seeing the same medical workers every day and receiving from that institution a salary. The protector is now being removed from the facility. For him is a competent municipality that finances him and provides him with work rooms. He gets official ID and is in charge of several health institutions. In the end, high penalties for non-compliance are imposed and range between 300,000 and millions of dinars for institutions and between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars for healthcare workers. The biggest controversy and objections to this law are the provisions on children's rights. I must point out that the members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child have received UNICEF's opinion on this bill and UNICEF fully supports this proposal, because it confirms the principles and rights guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, such as the rights of the child to express his opinion and to participate in improving the health and well-being of children. They particularly highlight the importance of provisions confirming the rights of a child older than 15 years of age, capable of being able to reason on self-judgment to a medical measure and the right to the confidentiality of patient’s health data. If a child who turned 15 refuses the proposed medical measure, the healthcare professional is required to ask legal counsel for consent. Different institutions, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency, various associations for the protection of patients' rights, legal portals and many others, have given their opinions, proposals and criticisms to this law, and I will name only a few of them. For example, Article 6 states the right to access to healthcare. It is positive that this is in line with the European Charter, and it is negative that the material options of health care are limited in attitude 1. In Article 8, the right to preventive measures is positive for raising people's awareness and examinations at certain intervals of risk groups, and it is negative that there is no sanction if the health institution does not implement those same measures. In Article 11, the right to notification is positive that the patient has the right to receive information from the competent healthcare professional about his illness so that he can make a decision on consent to the medical measure, but also provides for an exception when a healthcare professional can refuse diagnosis. The word "can" is used, which means the worker can keep quiet that he gives discretionary rights to the doctor to decide when not to notify the patient of the diagnosis, but to his relatives, which just means he has no criteria. In Article 15, the right to consent is positive that, without the patient's consent, no medical measure can be taken against him, but paragraph 3 provides for an exception to this rule, but not those cases are not listed, but points to cases established by law and medical ethics. The most dust has risen around Article 19 and the possibility of a child over 15 years of age deciding on a medical measure on his own. A number of questions are raised regarding the possibility of this right being used to decide on abortion or aesthetic procedures. In Article 20, the right to take into account medical documentation is negative because it is only an insight, not a patient's right to possess medical records, which is in accordance with the European Charter. In Article 23, right for confidentiality, the law says medical records can be provided at the request of the competent authorities. Who decides to give or not? Also, data can be provided to other legal entities, if prescribed by law. It is an unclear formulation and leaves the possibility of abuse because there is a possibility that insurance healthcare companies can, with the insight into underlying diseases, charge insurance companies with significantly more life policies, travel and health insurance. These are just some misunderstandings that can simply be removed by adopting some of the amendments. As a conclusion, I would only say one thought that you will hear often among the theatre world, which refers to a theatre performance. A good show has a lot of flaws, a bad one only. That goes for this bill, too. On a good bill, you can have a lot of objections, and on a bad one, which is that it is bad. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will fully support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15616	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15617	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister, members of the ministry, the Honorable Presidency of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us these two laws, the Law on the Rights of Patients and the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, and I think it is very good that patients' rights are strengthened. However, there is an impression, at least we from the DSS, that a little has not been done in order, that is, my party insists that the system laws on health care and on health insurance be amended and that only after the changes of these system laws on health care and health insurance should be approached by the creation and adoption of the patients' rights law. Because real patients are not protected by passing a law that will be completely inadmissible in many aspects. Here's why I'm saying it. Let's start with Article 2 in general terms. Article 2 speaks when it comes to general terms, that the patient is a person, sick or healthy, who is requested or provided with a health care service to preserve and improve health, control and early detection of disease and timely treatment and rehabilitation. It's positive here that the patient is not only sick but also a healthy face. But we all know that the patient described above is actually a secure person who has a certified health book. We know well that no one without a health book, and it's certified, can come up for the above-descripted searches and help. As for Article 12, this is about the choice of doctors. We certainly support the choice of doctors, however, we think that the choice of doctors is like this, as it is conceived, incomplete, because it is given the possibility to choose a doctor from just so-called. State medicine, i.e. from state institutions. Private practice has been completely kicked out of the game. The DSS proposes to create a single integration system, to create a package under the integration system that would be paid by the fund and it would integrate both state health and private practice. In this way, I repeat, we would really in the right and fundamental sense have the right to choose a doctor, and besides that, the waiting lists described in Article 29, which are practically now being introduced into the whole story, or legalized, would be far less. At this point in Serbia, there are around 55,000 people on waiting lists and various operations and reviews are scheduled even for 2016. If, despite this situation, we're legalizing waiting lists as such and we know they're the source of corruption, then we haven't, I'm afraid, done much. And for that, it's a cure for the integration of private practice and state medicine. Namely, it is this integration that opens the right to the quality of treatment that this law wants to guarantee. I'd also refer to article 17. That speaks of the right to consent. It says that the patient has the right to refuse the proposed medical measure, even if it saves or maintains his life. This provision is an introduction to the law of euthanasia. I have nothing against euthanasia, and I believe that euthanasia is a very big issue, both life and health and legal and psychological, however you will and it must be put on a broad social debate. It can't just get through like one of the provisions of this law. However, there is also one bizarre thing. For example, in the case of a car accident, a random passerby is required to provide emergency and first medical attention, whether he wants to get hurt or not. If he doesn't, he's subject to criminal sanctions. On the other hand, the doctor who took the Hippocratic oath, who is obliged to safeguard human health and life, can draw up a written statement that the patient simply refused treatment. Inconsistencies in this section are best spoken of in Article 18, which immediately derivates what is prescribed by the previous member, because in the position of Article 18(3), a legal representative of a child or a patient of deprived business capacity is not available or refuses the proposed emergency medical measure, an emergency medical measure can be taken if it is in the best interest of the patient. I would now say something about Articles 19 and 24, who really raised the storm not only in this Assembly but in the media and in all kinds of Serbian public, which is a famous decision on consent and the right to the confidentiality of data for children who have turned 15 years of life. In the opinion of the DSS, this member should be deleted because he opens up a series of criminogenic possibilities and opens up a series of moral dilemmas. I've heard from both colleagues and here on the assembly board and speaking to fellow doctors in society that this is scandalous. For example, girls need to have abortions, perform abortions when they're 15 years old without parents being notified, is really something that can't be allowed because this abortion is certainly not gonna be the only thing, the first and last thing that's done, but it just becomes a modus operand of a young girl. I am fully aware that our society is such that it is conservative, that parents are very often strict, that children are exposed to any physical and psychological harassment, the threats that they will be kicked out of the house and we are even, well, the Minister of State was with us when we were on the women's parliamentary network talking about how it would be necessary to introduce health education into school. Health education should serve to enlighten this people, to enlighten and educate people, to educate children from the first grade of primary school, and to educate children as well as their parents. I'm going back to that domestic violence, that is, domestic violence. We cannot treat or prevent or solve domestic violence by passing laws that will enable children to hide their particular problem from parents who are strict and who are potentially violent. And Unicef makes a proposal and makes a recommendation that this law be adopted in this form, namely that this member is adopted and that when it is prescribed by the laws of some other European countries, but I am convinced that it is not prescribed from all European countries, let's say, in Malta, you had a referendum on divorce three years ago. There's an abortion as forbidden. I'm sure, and that's the EU country, that they don't have something like this. In other countries, I really don't know what it looks like. In any case, this is prescribed from some countries where health enlightenment is on a much greater scale than it is in Serbia. I think we should start with intensive health enlightenment first, and then go after laws like this. I'd say, say, what about those kids who went into the drug world who don't want their parents to know? We all know that any treatment of mental illness, psychiatric issues involves family. How do we treat a psychiatric disease of biological and sociological nature if we don't involve the family, whether it's drugs, whether it's an adolescent crisis that can end and suicidality, whether it's a major psychosis, for example? Schizophrenics that start very early, especially in men's children, but when they're 15, 16 and 17 years old, and the child doesn't want the parent to be familiar with his illness? I would also say, we can't talk about the application of this law if we still have a network of institutions and infrastructure that isn't right, unless we have a fully defined network of hospital institutions, and we have besides that undefined network and undefined professional profiles. For example, high-ranking nurses who have been educated since 2007, have not been introduced into a health care system, just as they could be, so to speak, in the first lines of battle, both around health enlightenment and about medical assistance in the social community. And finally, to say, as far as a member of this law is concerned, if a child under the age of 18 commits an offence, his parent is responsible. However, in health rights, in matters of health, it insists on privacy, and this is not logical until the end. I'm certainly about the fact that the child and the younger, the three-year-old, the five-year-old should be asked, he needs to be talked to, he needs to be explained, people aren't things, but let them decide privacy, I think it's an exaggeration. As for the protection of patients' rights, the DSS believes that a patient's rights adviser should be a protector, not a counselor, but a well, but now that he's become a consultant, we think he should be someone who is employed and who receives a salary from the Ministry of Health, and not just from local self-government, not only because local self-government would be too burdensome, because we know that most local self-government works, and we also know psychologically how it works, because if it's paid by the president of the municipality, or if it's paid by the municipality and that municipal establishment, so to speak, then in some ways he'll be responsible for them, especially if the hospital director or home health is in some good relationships. This way, if he's paid by the Ministry of Health, then he's incoherent and has full freedom of work and action. As for the law on protection of persons with mental disorders, the DSS and my smallness really support the need for its adoption, because in Serbia, in recent years and decades, there has been a huge increase in the number of patients with mental disorders, and that is, of course, the price of accumulated stress due to wars, sanctions, bombings, poverty and overall deterioration of living conditions in the midst of transition. However, in Serbia, I would say, much has not been done to reform the system of protection and improve mental health. I would like to agree with the findings of the Citizens' Protector who says that treatment, quote - generally focuses on existing psychiatric hospitals and health homes, and not enough attention is paid to local communities of psychiatry in the community and in the final deinstitutionalisation as a goal of some upcoming reform. I have to say that I've been a doctor, a psychiatrist for many years, and it seems to me that psychiatry had more elements of psychiatry in the community, and that the protection of psychiatric patients was better in the 1980s, that they were more modern methods, that there were more social psychiatry, that there were more therapeutic communities, that there were more different profiles involved and that they were going more towards the patient than they were today. Of course, it's not only Serbia's fault, psychiatry has become very much biological and has become such a narrow medical branch, which, of course, I welcome, but psychiatry and mental illness is not just that. To be clear, I'm not in favour of the total abolition of psychiatric hospitals, as was done in Italy, for example. "The Basal Reform." In Italy, these hospitals were not so abolished for a year or a few months, but the suspension began in 1978, so that two of the last hospitals in Rome and Palermo would be abolished in 2005. So that's one long period. In Italy, of course, separation per patient is eight times larger than in Serbia. When we add to the fact that psychiatry is always on the tail of medicine, then we see that it's very difficult for us to do that deinstitutionalization. Believe me, if we're working on destigmatization, then we need to work first of all on deinstitutionalization, because it's just a psychiatric hospital, the way it's conjectured, the one that leaves the patient with the stigma. It should be very careful when housing a patient in a psychiatric hospital, especially in cases of forced hospitalisation. Unfortunately, in psychiatry, forced hospitalization was strongly throughout history abused. We know that in the Soviet Union she was a method of dealing with political opponents, that in America, too, an example of the poet Ezra Paund who spent 15 years in a psychiatric hospital, because he supported fascism in Italy, then hung out with some members of the Kuk-Kuks clan. But let's go back a little bit to our space, too. You have 900 patients at Vrsec Hospital. The length of treatment is more than half of them for about a year or more than a year. One hundred eleven patients are treated in a hospital for more than 10 years. I'm not apostrophe of the Vršačka psychiatric hospital as a bad one, we'd probably find similar things if we were to order other major psychiatry, but it's important to define the length of treatment through the principles of protection of people with mental bosletes, adopted by the Security Council resolution of December 1991, who say hospital treatment should last as long as the symptoms that make patients dangerous by themselves and others. So it's not possible that these patients from Vršačka hospital or other hospitals are more than 10 years of danger to themselves and others, and all we have to do is stick to it. Let's get back to forced hospitalization. Forced hospitalization is delicate and can easily turn into a violation of human rights. Some psychiatrists consider it legitimate to defend society, others consider it a violation of human rights and require its abolition. We believe that we should further and further define what these situations are where forced hospitalization can be carried out. We suggest, the DSS suggests that, as in the UK, an institute of three witnesses, which will testify to the abnormal behaviour of the patient, because we know that in front of the doctor, abnormality determines society with its cultural principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15618	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been a lot of content that's obviously going to be the subject of an amendment debate, and I might say that next week, when we're working on the amendments, I'm commenting on that part. My esteemed colleague, Ivić, took part in the debate today simply bid me, although I had no intention of talking today, to give some information. One of the extremely significant, which has caused sharp controversy through public debate, is this 15-year limit. International conventions give every country the right to define what age limit it is when a child can only decide on the extent that experts suggest again. The medical measure is never the measure proposed by the child. Professional competent teams do that and it's always the first step. Our country was then defined in 2005 and this parliament as a child who could only decide at the age of 15 has actually been defined for that age and we haven't changed that at all. Many of the rights adopted, many of the provisions that we have taken from earlier legislation, that is, the laws that have been passed before, and I have said something in the introduction, refer exactly to this segment. So we haven't even defined the limit. Now, by this law, it has already been defined in 2005. We now point out the right of a child over the age of 15 if he has the right psychophysical characteristics, which also professional teams must give their opinion, we define that child should be declared, it will be a senior minor from 16 years of age, that he should declare whether he accepts a measure or not. The fear that a violent termination of pregnancy may interfere with the child’s health is completely unfounded. This is a matter regulated by a special law and I have it here. It's the Pregnant Pregnancy Act. Every procedure, every step is related to a 16-year-old life, but I would not simply elaborate this law that justifiably concerns our own and professional public and the general public. So there's no reason. We don't treat this law of termination at all, we treat all other procedures in this regard. Article 17 of the rejection of the medical measure and the right of each of us to decide when hearing what his diagnostic or therapeutic procedure is offering, whether or not to define it is one of the fundamental rights. If a person is psychologically healthy and competent to decide, it's really depriving her right to reason, if we eliminate it and if we set it differently. When it comes to the person with whom consciousness has been compromised, expert teams define it and the priority is certainly the health condition and life of the patient and there we cannot communicate with the person who does not actually communicate, because he is not conscious, is not aware. In the end, the length of treatment seems to me to have been treated as a problem. As for the length of treatment, it may be better to discuss how long a patient may be in a psychiatric facility. I wish we were a country that has developed health in the local community, that we have mental health centres and that we have financial opportunities to do so. What we have at this point is teams that we need to form, intersectional. No matter what in one middle social work centre is financed from one ministry, healthcare workers from another, they will have to cooperate. So we don't have the financial potential to organize special institutions and we don't have the opportunity to pay for special staff, but a significant number of our homes of health has psychiatric teams, psychiatrists, psychologists, defecologists. So, in connection with the Social Work Centro, with other experts and the environment, we're going to have to build teams that will actually be the roots of the mental health services, or mental health centres, and that's going to help in this kind of transitional period, in the transition period, and how to deinstitutionalise. The largest number of our asylum seekers, I dare say so, and it's painful that someone spends 10 years in both a high school hospital and other special psychiatric hospitals, is that they don't actually have anywhere to go. We need to be very careful about the tendency to work on deinstitutionalization. For what? Because in these psychiatric hospitals, there's some kind of care and care about these people. If we let them go, and we don't have anywhere to let them go, they can't become the concern of the local community if we don't train the teams first. That's exactly what we're working on, and that's exactly what the human plan, which we've completed recently, envisioned an obligation in the home of health and psychiatrists. Would it be much better if they were different institutions on their own? One day yes, but at this point we must use existing human resources. The word, all three objections and the one relating to the independence of the 15-year-old child's decision, which is otherwise regulated by the family law that was passed in 2005, and the one from Article 17 on the refusal of medical intervention, which is the right of every man and he has to decide whether or not he will be treated, can be associated with euthanasia. Euthanasia is a voluntary death, but if a person who is conscious gets competent information from experts what if they accept and what are the risks if they do not accept a certain therapeutic or diagnostic procedure and make a certain decision, it is a free choice of every man as the most essential human right. With regard to the length of treatment, we need to make institutions in the local community, stimulate various forms of care for people with mental disorders, less asylum seekers, more freedom, more justice, more humanity and profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15620	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15621	Dear Madam Minister, respected members of the Ministry of Health, Madam Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, the health of the nation is the task of number one in each country. Without adequate healthcare, there is no progress and improvement in one country, and we are absolutely all aware of this and in this sense the New Serbia parliamentary group also welcomes the bill on patients' rights and the proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders. The bill on patients' rights provides precise arrangements for patients' rights and duties, but our legislation in the field of health care is also in a precise way consistent with European legislation. I think this bill on patients' rights in a very clear and explicit way by international conventions and statutes, about patients' rights confirms the right of patients to both preventive and quality medical services, the right to safety, the right to relief of suffering and pain and are very taxive, precise and clearly marked by all the rights that patients have. In addition to a clear definition of many rights, certain duties on the part of patients, such as respect for the rights of other patients and responsible treatment of healthcare professionals, associates and other healthcare professionals, have been prescribed. As far as this bill is concerned, I must say that my colleagues in the parliamentary group were in some kind of dilemma and we were still about Article 24, which they pointed out to my colleague, and you made it very clear just a few minutes ago that the border was not defined by this 15-year law that children were self-determining whether or not they would be subjected to any surgery, but that this was precise by the proposal of family law, or by the adopted family law of 2005. Now it's clear that there's nothing you could have done about it. However, according to my basic education, I have followed very closely the statements of my fellow educators and psychologists about this fact that a 15-year-old child can contact a doctor without the knowledge of his parents who, after his team, assesses whether or not he will report to the parent or not that a 15-year-old child will undergo surgery. Since I have a 15-year-old girl, I would find it very difficult for a doctor and a professional team to call me and tell me that your child is here and wants to submit to that and that operation. I'm guessing there's a lot of parents in the same dilemma that are in the same family relationship. I understand this provision of Article 24 from the population in which family relations are disturbed, where there are demoted, domestic situations, and then this is the only way for a child to even save his life if he talks to a doctor. It's something that, in my deep opinion, I've overcome the fact that even as a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I accept this member as precise as he is. My dilemma and my colleagues' dilemma in this law is about counsellors for the protection of patients' rights. Just by commenting with her colleague Zlata Djeric, we think it might have been better not to have a five-year working experience limit, but should have given the opportunity to younger people, perhaps with two or three years of working experience to deal with this issue. I also think it might have been better for patients in the very home of health after some medical care or medical examination immediately to this legal person I am experiencing as Obusman or the Protector of the Citizens to give an opinion. I understand that these legal persons who worked in health homes were influenced by the directors of the health homes themselves and that it is possible for them to be better placed on the side of local self-government so that they can see the situation properly. On the other hand, I'm afraid they may not be if, for example, they supply three or four cities, not to be buried with many papers and cases, so they can't be properly solved. These are some dilemmas I've had as well as my colleagues, but I believe that you've been looking at all aspects and talking and through the resolution boards you've made the right solutions. No law can be perfect and cover all rights and obligations, so as far as this law is concerned, I would no longer give any objections or suggestions. As far as the proposal for a law on protection of persons with mental disorders is concerned, I read on the Internet that this law exists in all 20 countries of Europe, and on this side I welcome the ministry's efforts to regulate this area even though we as a country have committed ourselves to the Convention held in Helsinki in 2005. I think the reasons why you proposed this law are incomparably deeper. Mental health is treated in one qualitatively different way. This bill was initiated by a 2007 strategy, and I can tell you that I was amazed at the data I've been researching in preparation for a discussion of this law, that mental disturbances in the world population are a large group of people, about 25%, and on this side I welcome the decision to arrange this area as well. I find it also very disappointing that 340 million people in the world suffer from depression, 45 million people suffering from schizophrenia, and 29 million people suffering from dementia. That's really devastating data. Coming back to our country, I think that the number of patients and people with mental problems was strengthened by the bombing in 1999, before that by the war events of the 1990s, and after all that, by the economic crisis, and that was the period when the awakening of mental illnesses and disorders of every kind of growth. This proposal does not claim to solve any of the above problems, but something must begin, so it is the very intention of the legislator of the law to praise. The provisions of this law specifically regulate the organisation and implementation of the protection of mental health, the way, the procedure of the organisation, the conditions of treatment, the housing of the person. In my opinion, this law has put an accent on all the comprehensive protection of fundamental human rights, namely the rights of persons with mental disorders. So far, there has been a major problem throughout our modern history that these specialized mental disorders facilities are most often isolated, located far from the city. I welcome your intention that precisely the proposals of this law include such a person in social life, to engage in the family as you say in the law, the working and the social environment, which is very important to say – respecting the choice of this person. Also in Article 3 of this Law are very clearly numbered rights of persons with mental disorders and this right to improve mental health, the right to equal treatment, the right to privacy, the right to the exercise of civil and other rights, such as at the same time in a very clear and precise manner defined and the limitations of these persons. As I mention the conditions for restriction, it is prescribed that when the measures of physical restraint and isolation of the person with mental disorders can be applied, so that Article 46 is prescribed that physical restraint and isolation can be extremely applied when it is the only means to prevent a person with mental disorders from acting with its behaviour that can seriously endanger both his own life and the safety and life of other persons. I wouldn't give any more objections or suggestions when it comes to these two laws. I just want to let you know on behalf of the NS parliamentary group that in the voting day we will support both of these laws, because they have exceeded the very positive sides that I have spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-09-0.u15622	Thank you. Given that it's 17.50 hours now, and we're working until 18.00 hours, I suggest we finish working for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milorad Stosic, Branko Ružić, Djordje Milicevic and Olena Papuga. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of the proposing professors of Dr Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, the Minister of Health, I have called for the sittings to be attended by Slavko Lakicevic, assistant health minister and Radmila Ivanek, special adviser to the Minister of Health. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
