ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14275	I appreciate the words. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I refer my question or request an explanation to Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Zarko Obradovic. I am not referring to this issue in terms of some forced criticism, but as an attempt to initiate a debate on one issue that is very important for the state of Serbia and for society in Serbia. In fact, I want to ask a question about the relationship between science and politics in this country, i.e. simply, peoplely speaking, how do we use all the brains we have in this country as a state interest? I've talked about it before and I'm still going to ask this question as a matter of fact, because what is it really about? In the state of Serbia, we have a whole series of scientific institutes, very high quality scientists working on them, working on scientific projects funded by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. These scientists come up with some results from different areas, such as sociology, economics, political sciences, natural sciences, physics and others, and it happens that the state does not use these results. Actually, my question is, how is the state supposed to use what it's funding itself? Very often, all that is done at the scientific institutes remains in the dark of some library, scientific chambers are printed, which are rarely read, and the path is difficult between real results of state interest. Let me extend this question to the conclusion that in our policy, in all parties, we don't have enough smart people. Today, we have a problem in Serbia that smart people don't want to go into politics, because they don't want to go down into the living mud that politics is very often about us. One of the basic tasks we need is to attract smart people into politics, to remove the negative selection that we have very often and to show that we respect the thinking of smart people. We'll do the best we can if we give all those people who are scientists out there investigating, hardworking and hardworking to give them importance. Serbia cannot and cannot turn into Big Brother and Farm. That's the kind of show we play in the media, if that's what you want me to say. We release those people who are uneducated, we let those people who are circuses, instead of going to the media, and even here, please pay attention, I don't think this is a very irrelevant question, my colleagues. Please try to give smart people a chance. I don't think we can get out of this crisis if we don't give smart people a chance if we give any "Farms", "Great Brothers" and others reality shows, and that Serbia will soon turn into a big reality show. I specifically point out my question to whether there is a mechanism for all research done by scientists at institutes to be available to the state, parliament, for concrete state decisions? Can these research be used to formulate public policies? Can they be used to formulate state strategies? We have excellent institutes, let's say, the Institute of International Economic Policy, we have the Institute of Political Studies, we have the Institute of European Integration – are we going to illuminate all these people who are more educated part of society and people, or are we going to continue to let stupidity into society, to focus cameras on Big Brother, to direct cameras to various "Farms" and to make a circus out of this country, because then we're going to have circus results? Let me put out one more thesis. The state needs to rest in education and science. Someone's gonna say I'm unrealistic. Someone will say that we have bigger problems, such as standard, unemployment, and I agree, but we can't get out of this crisis if we don't ask the state to give education and science its foundation. In all orderly countries, whether it's west or east, whether it's China or the United States, whether it's Germany or Turkey, in all States, education and science are at the heart of state policy. (President: Time. I'm finishing this question with the conclusion that we need to connect science to politics and give smart people a chance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14276	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14277	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, my question will not be forced to criticise, but it will be constructive criticism. Today is the last Thursday, and we need to question the government. The government has imposed on the public that it will be about Kosovo, which means what? That there'll be only what the government said in the media tomorrow and tonight? All right. I will use these five minutes to ask a question about Kosovo, because the afternoon chances won't be. I hope the prime minister comes, so I won't ask him anything at this time. They're approaching the historic moment. An agreement is expected in dialogue with Kosovo. What do we know about the ongoing conversation? Unfortunately, nothing. Instead of a plenary session, which would discuss the talks and rounds so far, we have a fine story on Kosovo this afternoon. You are all witnessing various statements and the Prime Minister and the president of the state these days and the loud silence of the first Deputy Prime Minister. You know what? Someone compared our negotiator with De Gaulle these days, with Churchill, it's unserious. Of course it's not serious. We have much closer examples, such as Tudjman and Mesic. When we look at the president who spent the first quarter of his budget for medals, and he probably expects a rebalancing that's inevitable this year, when he goes to the pope's throne, and says he's going to beatification, or to declare the Pope as saint, I'm not saying that Pope Franja won't ever be a saint in the future, but I doubt that Nikolic will welcome that moment at the post of president, we see that there is more Tudjman than Mesic. It seems to me that some Mesic is expected of Serbia. Perhaps Ivica Dacic is closer to Mesic than De Gaulle is, but that is why the first Serbian Deputy Prime Minister is silent and I doubt he will be here this afternoon. That's why I have a question for him. Six months ago, he promised European officials he would meet with Kosovo Prime Minister Slobodan Petrovic and said it would be within days or weeks. It's been six months. Well, I ask Mr. Wolfie not to list all those functions, because time is limited - when will you see? I don't know if you know that Slobodan Petrovic took part in the last rounds of talks because his prime minister leads him to these talks. Will Vukic see Petrovic at the next round of talks if Dacic takes him? I see he's quite resisting the first Deputy Prime Minister to participate. It seems that I would like to implement the next tactics in the future – I would not do this, but the government has previously agreed. Does that ring a bell? That's what we've been hearing for seven months. They wouldn't do this to me, but that's what Borko arranged. Looks like there's a lot of students coming up to this Bork. They're all in the end, Borko, but that's not how Serbia changes. It doesn't change what they say - we have to do this because they've done it before. We never would, but we have to do it. Serbia is changing by saying -- it is good for the citizens of Serbia, it is good for the citizens of Kosovo, especially for Serbs from Kosovo. That's how Serbia changes. That's how the mood changes in society. This changes the delusions of people who have been poisoned for 20 years. From who? Not from us. So when Dacic says he lied and hasn't yet answered me who lied, for 10 years that Kosovo is part of Serbia, he's actually what he says? Kosovo is not in Serbia. Is that what he says? He says. I think the responsibility for changing people and thinking of people who have been poisoned by wrong politics for 20 years is probably also the Deputy Prime Minister, not that Dacic will be Borko tomorrow. I'm not defending Dacic, gentlemen of the SPS. I'd like it to be more Mesic than Tudjman, since this president looks more like Tudjman with these qualities and things he does. So, a question for Vukic – when will he see Petrovic? The second question, will the Foreign Ministry react to an interview with the Russian ambassador because talking in our country about other countries really does not fall into good diplomatic practice?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14278	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14279	Your Honor, I have a question for the Department of Justice. I asked the question on 1 March 2013 regarding the settlement of the dispute over the exercise of military pensioners' rights to an increase of 11.06% since 2008, and today I received a response from the Justice Ministry in which I am clear. As for the Ministry of Justice and his jurisdiction, I am pleased with his answer, but I cannot be satisfied with the views that have been made, and they are related to the Court of Justice's response. The Constitutional Court has obliged the Administrative Court to proceed within two months following the ruling of the Administrative Court. In response, it is said that the decision is not binding on the Administrative Court but is instructive. I can accept that variant, but that time from August to this day is eight months. In addition, it is said that a draft so-called the pilot of the judgment for the unification of the case law, for which the Administrative Court will plead at the session of all the judges scheduled for 11.3.2013. Today is March 28, 2013. That pilot's conviction is not known to the public. I don't see the reason, if it's discussed, why wouldn't it be known what the problem would be partially clarified and clear? For that matter, I ask and beg through the Justice Department, I think it's my only time, for the Administrative Court to give me an answer – when will this pilot be known in public? I cannot agree with the answer that the items covered by the parliamentary questions will be resolved within a reasonable period of time. Whether military pensioners have the right to comply and whether the percentage of the coordination will be 11.06 are the facts the court will decide on under the procedure. That's what we're looking for. Nothing else. Taking into account the respect for party rights and public interest in accordance with the law, but I cannot agree with the following quote, which is why there is no need to put pressure on the public and prejudge the decision of the Administrative Court. I don't see my parliamentary question as a kind of pressure on the Administrative Court. It is my desire to make this problem clear as soon as possible – whether or not military pensioners are entitled to it? That would avoid high court costs. The debt of about eight billion will only grow and will go to the burden of all taxpayers. So it's in the interest of the state to make this question clear as soon as possible and thus at least end the lawsuit. About 20,000 lawsuits have been filed so far. Those fees aren't even small. I don't see why it wouldn't be one of the priorities, if only you knew which direction it was going to go. Therefore, I insist that I get an answer to this question as soon as possible – when this pilot's verdict will be known to the public, that is, through which direction it will move and how the users of military pensions behave. I wouldn't want to go through with this, conditionally speaking, process or lawsuits like we did with the 2004 debt. The 4.5 billion-dollar debt has grown to 13 billion, and I'm afraid this eight-billion-dollar debt is going to rise to over 30 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14280	The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14281	The esteemed chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, the Joint Parliamentary Group for Serbia has a question for Regional Development and Local Self-Government Minister Mrs Verica Kalanovic, who is also in charge of building the Pojate-Preljina highway. Until a few months ago, it was public attention to the construction of the highway Pojate – Preljina. That was a big talk, and it was said that construction of that highway would begin in March this year. Today is the end of March, and since the start of the construction of the highway there is nothing, it has even stopped talking about it. The highway of Pojate - Preljina should connect Corridors 10 and 11, i.e. pass by once large industrial centres, such as Kruševac, Kraljevo and Cačak. It would be of great importance that this road is completed as soon as possible, as these cities, as well as other cities in Serbia, are in major trouble. The biggest problem with these cities is the huge unemployment and the departure of young people from these cities. Construction of the highway would try to attract new investors, as without it hardly anyone will dare from serious investors to come to these three cities. It's not just a question of this highway, Pojate – Preljina. We think and think that the state of Serbia should start as soon as possible, not think, but start building other highways through Serbia. First of all, I mean the way Paracin - Zaječar, i.e. connecting Zaječar and Bora with Corridor 10. Then, on the way of Nis - Prokuplje - Kurhumli, which is of great importance. So connecting Kursumlia and collecting with Corridor 10, as building the Corridor 10 highway - Shabac, because this road is in very poor condition and building the Ruma - Shabac highway. So building these roads is of vital interest to the citizens of Serbia, because I fear that if it is not quickly built, these cities will fall into even greater difficulties, but in which they are now. I think and believe that building infrastructure is only one of the preconditions for Serbia's regional development, and above all it has to go with even regional development, which does not really exist in Serbia at this point and with fundamental decentralisation. Without that, Serbia will not be better off. With that in mind, I would like to ask Minister Kalanovic a few questions. First – when will a contract be signed for the construction of the highway Pojate - Preljina and when will the construction of these roads finally begin? The second question – is the government thinking, and when it intends to start with the construction project and those other roads that I was talking about, and above all I mean the Nis - Prokuplje - Kursumlija, because it is vitally important, I repeat for the country of Serbia, because people are moving out of that space and we have to do everything to keep them there? The next question - when will it start with a balanced regional development, because the south is far behind compared to the north of the Republic? I think it's about time someone started taking it seriously. These are questions for the minister I expect concrete answers from, but not just answers, but to start with the realization of these projects that have long been announced in public, but so far there is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14282	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14283	I will ask one question that I have raised earlier, and as one major threat to shutting down the remaining media in Serbia. Namely, the media in Serbia are privatised under the general Privatisation Act and are literally bought as potatoes at the market. They were mostly bought by people who had no experience in the media, no idea what they could do with bought media. As a consequence, we have a series of printed, electronic, television and radio stations shut down. We don't have a Kraguer's Light anymore that's been around for over 70 years, we don't have a Chatchak TV, we don't have a King's Television. We don't have many local and regional television and radio stations. No more Ibar news, no more Vranium TV. Thanks to such a poor media image in Serbia, the Culture Ministry in 2011 brought a strategy to cover Serbia's entire territory with regional public services, which would be financed by 1% of municipal budgets covered by regional public services. However, we have all witnessed strong pressure from Belgrade's media interest lobbys on the Ministry of Culture that the media strategy is not respected, and consent to the media strategy has been given by the European Commission. We've received a draft of the public information bill. It shows that the media-based Belgrade-based lobby has the advantage of the adopted strategy of the culture ministry, which was given by the European Commission. The public's reactions are really intense. No one can believe that many media have survived Milosevic's dictatorship without surviving the so-called. democracy and the European way. Belgrade's Studio B also called. A well-known radio-television station, which has a long tradition that daily informs two million citizens of Belgrade about specific topics, which are of interest to the city of Belgrade. They believe that the draft law on public information is the opposite of the Constitution, which is my opinion, to abolish the right and authority of the city of Belgrade and local self-government to be the founders of public votes, to abolish freedom and fundamental human right to establish newspapers, media houses and other public votes in accordance with the law of local self-government. Also, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians also announced, believing that the level of human rights of the national minorities proposed by the bill is being brought into great danger and likely to decrease. On 26 March, a debate took place in Kragujevac on this topic, which was attended by representatives of TV Kragujevac, TV Pančevo, TV Nis and many prominent and public figures. It is a unanimous assessment that we can no longer earn interest, financial, Belgrade lobbies... Don't forget that all television, primarily televisions with national frequencies, operate in Belgrade, that Serbia is in great danger of entering the media dark, because the economic situation in Serbia is such that all privatised, especially if we talk about television, TV stations have to be funded from other sources, because on the market they can't survive alone. My questions to the government and the Ministry of Culture are next. Why is the remaining media in Serbia being shut down after the disastrous privatisation of the media? Why isn't the Constitution respected? Why is the Belgradeisation of the whole of Serbia's media space taking place? Why aren't agreed media strategies respected? Why has the Ministry of Culture repeatedly violated my written response that the proposed set of media laws will find the best solutions in order to inform citizens from all over Serbia on time, objectively and daily about the information specific to their environment and work environment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14284	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Engineering Management, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Please welcome the guests. We're going back to work. The word has a folk MP, Dr Nikola Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14285	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice. After World War II, a large number of Serbian citizens were found guilty, whether they were members of the Ravnog movement, whether they were rich people, and many were declared a people's enemy, although they were shot by occupiers at sites in Kruševec, Kraljevec, Kragujevac. In 2004 The Republika Srpska Assembly passed a Law on equalising the rights of the Montenegrins and partisans. After the law was passed, a large number of people launched a procedure to rehabilitate family members, purely as a moral rehabilitation, and a large number of convictions were made for the benefit of the accused, that they were people's enemies. The verdict declaring one’s enemies at the time was also about the material benefit of the State. Normally, all mobile and immovable property is confiscated for people who have been declared enemies. Many rehabilitations, which were brought after 2004, were moral satisfaction. My question to the Ministry of Justice is – what about confiscated property? Confiscation isn't the law. Confiscation is the measure that takes away all mobile and immovable property from a specific person because of the works done. I'm asking a practical question. Lately, numerous convicts have been convicted and confiscated of property. If a re-procedure would result in a release, would the confiscated property become their property? My question is -- confiscated property to people who were accused as people's enemies in 1946, 1947, 1948, 1950, and rehabilitated after 2004, is that confiscated property coming back?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14286	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14287	The Honorable Chairman, I will ask three questions today. First, it concerns you, or the President of Parliament, regarding the respect of the Rules of Procedure. The 286 MPs were given the opportunity to ask questions and get answers to these questions within 30 days. Last year, November 7th, I asked a question concerning the payment of the backlogs of workers who sued the state in Strasbourg. Last year, in March of the month, the government adopted a regulation obliging it to pay off those backlogs. The regulation has been regulated to initiate the procedure for the recording of all the judgments made by the workers and which have been carried out. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. To this day, I have not received an answer to that question – what will happen to these backlogs and when will the state pay for it? It is more than 5,000 workers from the Electronic Machine Industry "Jasprac", "Nitex", "Gradjevinar" from Nis and many other workers across Serbia. My question is, firstly, to respect the Rules of Procedure, to answer within the deadline foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, and second question is addressed to the Ministry of Economy and Government – when will this issue be resolved? The next question is "Fiat." In fact, the state of Serbia, by contracting with the Fiat in 2008, formed a joint venture between the state and the Italian investor, invested more than 700m euros in the firm through various things, whether through clean money or through infrastructure, factories and similar things. In this joint factory, the state of Serbia participates with 33% of the ownership. A car fair opened last week in Belgrade, and we heard from the economy minister that the government of the Republic of Serbia will subsidise a new Fiata model with 3,000 euros per piece and that the price, with those subsidized 3,000 euros, will be 10,990 euros. I ask the government and the Ministry of Economy to give us a calculation – how is it possible that, with 3,000 euros subsidized directly in each sale "Fiat 500 L", we pay 10,990 euros per car, while this same car, with all customs, transport costs and taxes, in the Czech Republic 10,400 euros? What is this bill, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia pay, despite a 3,000-euro subsidy, despite investments of 700m euros in Fiat, a higher price than the normal export price in the Czech Republic? Is it possible that after so much money invested, the skin from the back of our consumer, our buyer, is still yelling? How long are we going to spend more money out of the budget, steal money from taxpayers, invest in Fiat, and still have the most expensive prices? Why didn't we apply this model to other domestic products? We destroyed the electronics industry that made the best televisions in the former Yugoslavia. Why didn't we subsidize those TVs then, that we don't have a shut down factory today, we've lost tens of thousands of jobs and, of course, on the market only foreign televisions. Why didn't we subsidize the domestic washing machines we also made? in Nis, we lose hundreds of jobs and again we have "Fire" or other import brands that sell here and take off the cocoa for these products, and we subsidize right into them, to sell foreign goods and make money to our citizens. The third question refers to "Srbigas". The state audit found that there were huge irregularities in "Srbigas", so I'm asking the Prime Minister and the entire government what they're going to do, since the government has asked the director "Srbigas", and it turns out that there were huge irregularities, millions of sums, more than 20 billion dinars spent without public procurement, more than 30 million dinars for representation, more than 50 million dinars... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... For the cost of advertising. I wonder – what does "Srbigas" advertise for 50 million dinars or 500,000 euros?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14288	Thank you, Mr. Lapchevich. The word has a National MP, Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14289	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, honored guests at the gallery. I have two questions. One is for Minister Milutin Mrkonjic and Prime Minister, and it concerns the fact that about a month ago, on the highway to Novi Sad, life lost 30-year-old Bojana Musikic from Vrbasa, when she ran into an unmarked concrete pillar of a future payment ramp for Novi Sad. Just two days earlier, on that same pillar, that unmarked place, the singers "Star of the Grand" ran into it and, in general, the case became known. The question is, would the public ever talk about it the right way? So it's an unmarked exclusion for Novi Sad, without light signalling and that signalling was set only two days after that accident. By the way, on the other hand, on the way in from Subotica, that is, the exclusion for Novi Sad, there is still an unmarked exclusion, and still that exclusion awaits some new victim. After this tragedy, the director of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", Zoran Drobnjak, resigned from Minister Mrkonjic. At least we've been notified through the media. Through the media, we have been informed that public prosecutor pressures have been made in Novi Sad, that he does not file charges, or that he does not raise charges against those responsible for such an improperly marked accident and causing a fatal accident. We also learned from the media these days that Minister Mrkonjic, therefore, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did not accept the resignation of Mr Drobnjak, who, in a salva of his tasteless statements, told the media after this accident – so what if it was dark, and the pillars would be seen by a stale driver. My question to Minister Mrkonjic and the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – will the director of the Road of Serbia, Zoran Drobnjak, be removed or do they personally support this way of running a public enterprise and thus the behaviour of the director? Today, as a card from this public company, we have been announced that the next few days will collect tolls, and this public company plans 168 million dinars only for directorial expenses on an annual basis. The second question is for the president of the Republic of Serbia. My colleague Milivojevic asked the question the other day, and I will repeat it once again, because three or four days ago, Doctor Inic, a person sentenced to prison for taking bribes, and not from anyone, but from receiving bribes from a disabled person. So, a doctor under Hippocratic's oath took bribes from a disabled person. The president of Serbia pardoned him. He's been in custody for zero days, zero days in prison. I ask the President of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the Prime Minister, I ask the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic – is this the zero tolerance to corruption, to be punished for such acts with zero days in prison, and is that the fight on corruption you're talking about? Will it possibly be decorated, since I heard there was a lack of funds to be decorated, would Dr Ostojic perhaps be even more decorated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14290	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14291	Thank you, Chairman. My parliamentary questions are addressed to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. They are also related to the work of the Chamber of Medical Sisters and Health Technicians, since the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance are also responsible for the work of this chamber. Namely, the Health Workers' Chamber Act has been regulated that they must be members of the Chamber and that membership fees are mandatory at 0.6%, which is close to 2m euros per year in the Chamber of Medical Sisters and Health Technicians. The nurses' chamber and medical technicians count about 80,000 members. The Chamber's legal act is not in line with the Chamber Act, and the Chamber's work is problematic because the three congregations were not held because of the non-existent quorum. Legal acts shall be amended according to the need and desire of management. As for this, delegates also addressed the Constitutional Court to determine how many legal acts were in conformity with the Chamber Act. Members of the Chamber of Medical Sisters and Health Technicians have also repeatedly warned of abuses and non-intentional spending of membership fees. It is clear to all of us that health workers' profits cannot be higher because the state is poor, but is it possible by law that regulated and mandatory chambers can be places where this money is spent without any control of the competent ministry, specifically the Ministry of Finance? The chambers have precisely entrusted jobs, and in that part they can be independent, but in the uncontrolled spending of money from membership, they are subject to the control of the finance ministry. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, I have the following questions. Why are the health workers' chambers formed if no one is in charge of their work? Why doesn't the Ministry of Health oversee the legality of the work of the Chamber? Why did the Ministry sign increased membership fees by 100% if it wasn't responsible for her work? Why is it that all the memos that delegates send to the Ministry are left unanswered? Why is it only after seven months that the President of the Republic is unwise to quote members of the Chamber Act? As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, the questions would be – why has the Ministry of Finance for the past six years, since the chambers have been established by law, never controlled by financial work? Why did the Ministry of Finance not respond to a single letter addressing the delegates of the Chamber? Why can nurses and healthcare professionals not exercise their rights through the regular institutions of the system, and why is the Law on the chambers of health workers, Article 49 and Article 50 not respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14292	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of Parliamentarian Vera Paunovic. We continue the principled search on the 6th item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Change and Completion of Labour Laws. Are any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14293	The esteemed chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is no doubt an amendment to the law that will allow for better protection of pregnant women and maternity women. During the current debate on the amendments to this law, he finds support from colleagues and colleagues, as he solves one important issue. Two of the most important amendments to this law are that maternity and pregnant women cannot be terminated, that is to say to terminate the contract and work relationship, as well as that parents receive 90 minutes of rest during their working day to visit their children. In yesterday's statement by the president of parliament, who actually said the motives for the bill, which are dozens of cases he heard from pregnant workers, maternity parents who in one unscrupulous way lost their jobs. Serbia's public was equally appalled by Bojana Petrovic, who lost her job six days before her birth in the Alexine police as a hygienist, who spoke to all the authorities asking for help, but also Sunica Aleksic, who lost her job in the fourth month, and who, to make it even harder, also received confirmation from the court that she was jobless. I must remind the citizens of Serbia and present colleagues, and with the fact that in 2007, President SO Knić Snezana Banković Djokic, as speaker of the assembly, was to be replaced, because the proposal for her shift was submitted by fellow committees, only because, in their opinion, she was unable to schedule meetings, although the vice-president of the assembly had the right to do so. So this was an alarming warning to the state of Serbia that there is neither enough consciousness nor effective mechanisms to protect the rights of women, parents and children. In a democratic society, the fact that someone can be replaced is not a problem, but the problem is that someone should be removed because she is a woman, or mother. One of the reasons why it was necessary to amend this law is the fact that for years, or decades, Serbia has been facing a low level of birth. We all know that in Serbia one city of 35,000 people disappears on an annual basis. Also, we are the oldest nation in Europe, the average age of Serbian citizens is 42 years. The forecasts are harsh and suggest that in 2051, if we continue with this population policy, we will be a nation whose average age will be 60 years. Also alarming are warnings from the Ministry of Education that 2,000 fewer champions were enrolled in 2012 compared to the previous year, as well as the fact that 200,000 abortions were performed in Serbia on an annual basis. Unfortunately, all the strategies we've had so far have remained a dead letter on paper. My opinion is that the economic cause and reason why these strategies are not implemented in the right way. Regardless of the fact that the Republic of Serbia pays all maternity benefits to parents and that many municipalities and cities in Serbia give incentives to families, and at all for childbirth, that is unfortunately not enough. We need to think about what steps to take. My opinion is that economic opportunities dictate the moves we are going to make, and that the amendment of this law is one of the first and most important steps in this area. Someone yesterday in a debate from his colleagues said they suspected they didn't need new economic resources to apply this law. My opinion is that, given the small number of children born in Serbia at the moment, we do not need new budgets. It is true that employers discriminate against colleagues and that they remain jobless because they are in a different condition or are foster parents. I need to get the Association for European Integration data out here. According to their data, the foster parents get fired in 93% of cases due to illness, in just as many cases the inspection won't receive an oral maternity report, while only one in nine women is the court's solution to the lawsuit waiting less than six months. It is precisely this data that points to the necessity of the adoption of this law, but I believe that even after its adoption, inspection and control of this law will be very important. I also believe that the objective of this law is the mental stability of the mother, as one of the conditions of the preservation of the family. When it comes to discrimination from employers, who should first and foremost have social responsibility, I am sincerely convinced that by passing this law, things will improve for the better. If we go one step further, in the sense that these employers in their environment are building and some room for mothers with children or offices garden or park that would serve them that when they bring their children in for those hours, if they can't go home, they make pleasure for themselves and children, I believe that, as a society, we will show humanity. I'd like all these employers to realize that they're firing their co-worker first. I think that, by applying this law, people will in some way raise awareness that we need to be human society and society that will pay extra attention to both families and mothers and children because it is, after all, our constitutional obligation. So, in voting day, the NS will support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14294	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14295	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we are here today talking about amendments to the Labour Act and the two provisions that are being changed. I would like to say right away that the Joint Parliamentary Group for Serbia supports the amendment of this law. I think that any extension of rights, including this kind of amendments to the law, can only come across praise. I'd like to point to a few problems that our pregnant women and our families face in everyday life. This is a very nice thing. I think we can go even further and it won't cost the state much, but point out some of the things that happen in everyday practice. These things are, in principle, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, and at the same time, the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund. We have an abuse situation. Just because we today, or I expect us to adopt these amendments to the rules, give some greater rights and make protection for the most sensitive categories of our society, on the other hand doesn't mean that they'll be better off, because we're doing this to protect their income. You will agree that these payments go to the burden of the state, i.e. on the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, i.e. on the burden of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. What do we do when that money doesn't reach who it's meant to be? What do we do with the situation where these pregnant women and those families who expect that salary, whatever it is, is the fact that today it's really not something big, does that money really get to them? I've witnessed a few cases, and I'm sure it can testify to anyone, firstly, that they pay you late, secondly, that employers keep that money, so they keep it and use the money they get from the state for a few months, they use that money, and then they pay it back to pregnant women. There are often some conditions, such as – you will get a share, we will give you two-thirds, we will keep something for ourselves and the like. In a large number of cases, it happens that the pregnant woman's money doesn't even get it. I'm appealing that we might be able to consider amending the Labour Act in part of control. You have a situation that the Ministry of Labour, or labour inspectors, are not at all competent to control payments. They often call incompetents. You have a situation where employers, because they know that things work that way, how they work, decide to increase pregnant women's wages when they find out she's staying in a different state. She'll stay to work, she'll get increased profits, but she won't get a penny of that money. That money will end with the employer. This will rob the state, and pregnant women will not improve anything in their position. She'll be there on some piece of paper that she signed herself to win, she'll receive a profit fee, but that money won't end up with her. This money that is overly needed and serves to develop a family, serves a better future, will end up in the hands of the employer, and we as a state are not able to control the flow of money. I appeal to the applicant for amendments and additions to this law to try to do everything to improve regulations, to improve the Labour Act and really to round up this story, which is good, by making sure that the money that is intended for pregnant women and families is really there and finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14296	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14297	As I pointed out yesterday, my intention, when proposing these amendments and supplementing the Labour Act, was that in this relatively narrow segment, we primarily protect pregnant women and pregnant women, especially those who have a contract for a certain time, that after the end of that contract they cannot be fired if they are otherwise or have just given birth, until the end of the 12th month. Of course I agree with you that there are many abuses in the current Labour Act, not just in this area. Of course, I encourage everyone to help us all work together to change other provisions of the law. As far as I'm aware, I think the ministry is doing a comprehensive change of the Labour Act at this point in some segments and when it comes to parliament, I hope in the next month or two, that we will then have the opportunity to include all these other changes. Of course, I fully support your concern. The purpose of what I suggested was just to fully protect mothers, pregnant women and maternity mothers, not to be cut off by anyone, or to be harassed in any way, to challenge their right to hire only because they intend to give birth to children or, simply by the fact that their work contract has expired, they realize that they have lost their jobs in fact. However, thank you for these suggestions, and I hope that together we will have the opportunity to change the future labour law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14298	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14299	We have a very human law and amendments to the law that will mean that women who have decided to give birth or who have given birth have a much more favourable position than they have so far. Dear MPs have already talked about all the problems women in Serbia have when they decide to give birth. The hardest part is when a young woman gets a job and an employer asks her to sign off on not having another baby. In a country that has fewer inhabitants every year for 35,000, in a country where a mediocre city disappears every year, we have to support these measures. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will fully support these changes and additions to the Labour Act and will stand behind it for several reasons. One of the most important reasons the state is interested in this area and that the burden it will be financially, it will not be at the expense of employers. He will be at the expense of the state and thus the state sends a clear message, a concrete message, that women who decide to give birth, have children, that they really do, because they will have full support from the state. Since I became the proud grandfather of a little boy a few months ago, I mean, the next thing I know, it's a very brave act, a very important act, and the state has to encourage it. It must be encouraged for a simple reason because it really takes a lot of resources and time for a young creature to grow up to create a man who will be able to live and work tomorrow for this Serbia, the way it is. That is why the Social Democratic Party will fully support these amendments and amendments to the law. We've touched one system law, and that's the Labour Act. The Honorable President of the Assembly has already said that a comprehensive change of this law is needed. The Social Democratic Party agrees. We agree that the time we live in is quite different from the time the law was passed, and it was brought in 2005. He just had a little change. It is one of the crucial laws for the world of labour and general for the development of a state and therefore the Social Democratic Party believes that we must move towards changes and additions of this law and that it is comprehensive for the simple reason why we want the job to be a place where man will work and earn for himself and his family, and where there will be no burden, where our current employers, in a situation where we have a liberal economy, where they see profit exclusively, and we do not have the possibility of working, earning and that based on what he has earned, can be a decent living. When we talk about it, I want to say a few things. In public, a false dilemma is created, that such as the Labour Act, which was passed in 2005, is a law that prevents foreign direct investment and even investment. Furthermore, false dilemmas arise, that our worker is not worthy, all with the goal of really working for a minimum wage, a salary he cannot live on. Today, tomorrow's session and the Social-Economic Council and he discusses the minimum labour price. Please, we have a labour price of 115 dinars, a full-time worker gets 20,800 dinars and workers get a sum of 2,500 dinars. Our great employers think it'll be very dangerous for them, that they won't be able to pay for it. I ask the reverse question – can someone who works full-time live at 22,500 dinars, how much should be the minimum labour price? Is that worker able to support himself and his family and is that a mile where a man must go to work, with one pleasure, that he knows he will earn and that he will be able to support his family? I expect that today, the Social and Economic Council will agree on this minimum labour price, which is only growth compared to inflation for the past year and nothing more. We can't even do that, then we see what kind of country we're in and what we have. Also, I'd like to say a few more things. We often speak only in individual rights and the Corps of Individual Rights. Of course, they're very important. But I ask questions – why are we not talking about collective rights? Why don't we talk about industrial democracy? We are talking about political democracy and we are talking about human rights, we are talking about the rights of minority communities, and we are never giving full attention in this House to the rights of employees, industrial democracy, how to make the workplace attractive, not to be a place where you go under the sea, but with pleasure to work, to act as a man, and therefore to get adequate compensation, to support yourself and your family. We must build those miles in this country if we want Serbia to move on. Of course, I'm not saying anything new. We have an Anglo-Saxon model that we started after 2000, which only looked at profits, where the worker didn't exist, where he had to work as hard as he could. Of course, the results of this kind of development are seen in 2013. We have a European model. This European model that we have, we strive for it. I'm not going to point out that in one of these countries, what it's like in one Germany, what it's like in one Denmark. We are far from it, but we must strive for it. Or maybe we want an African model, which means we're practically working without getting anything. Because it seems our employers would like the most, to work for them for free, and for them to sell their wealth, their villas, their expensive cars or their yachts, which immediately in our poor country at the fair, the most expensive car would be sold immediately, and we ask the worker a question – why he dared to ask that minimum labour price be only 2,500 higher, for the simple reason that he could survive and that he could buy bread and milk for his family, because even that milk that has aflatoxin, or even that milk can no longer buy. Therefore, we must fight for such a position that work has the full support of all of us. When I talk about collective rights, these individual rights, there are a lot of institutions in the Labour Act that are overcome. We're talking about severance, of course, that if a worker gets severance from one employer, he can't ask another employer for that period. The unions agree with that. He will support this amendment to the Labour Act for a simple reason, for the same period you cannot get a double sum of funds. There's still talk of working hours. A certain working time. You know that a certain working time is up to a year, foreign employers are asking for it to be up to three years. I think you can talk and negotiate there and there can be a deal that will be a compromise between one and three years and that we can end it. Furthermore, the issue of vacations is one issue that is constantly being raised, and these are issues of sickness. Please, a man gets sick, goes home and gets 65% of his salary. Since he is often the only one who works in the family because his family is ill becomes a social case. I went to the doctor last night and talked to the doctors where they pointed out to me that even when people are sick, people don't want to go to sick leave. They're coming to work sick with a desire to get full pay. Doctors are in a situation where sick people have to make them sick, because that's the only way to cure them. It's one of the questions, it's a character of a time when we lived in some socialism where it went to sick leave to work... . (President: Mr. Miatovic, I am obliged to ask you to return to the topic. I'm in the dark and I'm talking about the Labour Act. There's something else I want to say, and I'm using my 20 minutes. Thank you for that warning. About the Labour Act, and I want his change to go on time, there's a lot to be solved. The question of the representativeness of the participants in the social dialogue, the issue of participation in governance. Please, we've had earlier self-government, now we've come into a situation that the employee is only the one who's at work and who's doing what he's doing, and we don't have advice from employees. One Germany, one Sweden has advice from employees and a worker if it works in a company must know what is waiting for it in the company. What to expect in that future and where the employer wants to do and work for him to be better. I'd also like to say about the courts we don't have, and they gave good results. This way, when a worker loses his right, and was even a foster parent, he can't achieve it, because the courts don't exist, and the work processes are very long after five, six years when a worker gets his conviction, it doesn't matter to him anymore. Let me tell you right now, the SDPS will fully support amendments and additions to the Labour Act, support, but in this sense, when agreed on by the Social and Economic Council where employers, trade unions and states agree on all these issues. We believe that if there is no compromise and no agreement is to go to individual changes where there is consensus, only in this way will we have Serbia that will move forward where social rights will be much more respected and where Serbia will become a social state and Madam Chairman, our group will donate its nine minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14300	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14301	I thank the esteemed chairperson, respected colleagues and colleagues, the well-respected promoter, I think that this is another step that MPs are making to solve the problem of Natalie, and for the first time this call has given support in solving this problem when the law that allows VAT to be recovered on baby equipment is passed, and I think that this may be a good measure, but a good measure in terms of the progress of population policy will become another period from February 1st to February 15th, and I think it is one good maybe small measure, but it is a good measure in terms of progress. I have no reason not to mention today that the intention of us from the U.S.S. exists when it comes to increasing the birth rate and we showed that when the mayors and presidents of the U.S. municipalities from their budgets began to allocate funds to each newborn, even though it was not a legal obligation. Of course, social policy and concern about birth is one subject to be discussed in parliament, is one framework that must be provided by the state and state policy. We have different measures, such as a child's supplement, a parental supplement, which can already be realized, but it certainly isn't something that's enough and my colleagues have already talked about certain problems, and the latest results of the list are something that each of us needs to start thinking very seriously and very comprehensively, when it comes to population policy. If we say that there are fewer than 100 people in 1,000 settlements in Serbia, if we say that every year Serbia loses between 35,000 and 40,000 citizens, then we can say that these results are alarming and unequivocally suggesting that birth is Serbia's biggest concern. When we also say that the population is down 4.15% and that the average age is 42.2 years, that over 65 years we have 17.4% and younger than 15 years,14.3%, and that the level of birth is even 30% below the need for a simple renewal of the population, noting that Serbia is not only facing this problem, it has 60 countries in the world that have the same or similar problem. I must also point out that according to a woman in the Republic, the fertility rate in Serbia, which shows the number of children born, per woman, in the reproductive period, is currently 1.4 and is heading towards 1.3 and we need a fertility rate of 2.1 for a simple reproduction. Then all of this makes us think one thing. I'm gonna go back to those local measures right now. A password that separates the aid of 15,000 dinars for the first child, 20,000 dinars for the second, 30,000 dinars for the third and each, for the twins of 40,000 dinars, three 50,000 dinars. Of course, there's the Fireman, the Kragujevac, which you'll hear more about than my colleague. Also, I can't mention the Zaječar who makes 20,000 dinars as a single aid for every newborn and 15,000 dinars every month until the first year of the child's life, for those who are unemployed, and the city of Zrenjanin is doing it from recently. Also, Nis can't help but mention that a very good project has been implemented in Nis, which is "The pregnancy of work", where they are entitled to grant to employers who establish a working relationship at indefinite times, given from the budget and in co-operation with the National Employment Service. Of course, when we talk about systemically solving this problem, I also have to express my regret that the birth strategy remained just like a dead letter on paper. Of course I have to express my regrets, which someone once failed to do more than that. Are we too late? I don't think so. Is it good to adopt a legal proposal like this? It certainly is, because these are all small steps and certainly not enough, but they can contribute to increasing birth rate. I would be dishonest if I didn't mention that this law should suffer further changes and major changes and I really hope that we in this House will talk in a more comprehensive way about amendments and additions to the Labour Act. I also cannot mention today and not to express my hopes that one day we will discuss the problem of unemployed pregnant women, that in a serious way we will talk about farmers, when it comes to motherhood, because they are certainly those who do not contribute to birth and the issue of their protection during pregnancy and during maternity, which, unfortunately, they do not yet have legal rights. Of course, when it comes to increasing birth rate, it is difficult not to mention the fact that we have completely diametric problems, when it comes to kindergarten and kindergarten. This is certainly one problem that we in the URS face when we talk about Serbia's even development, where on the one hand you have Belgrade and Novi Sad, which has not enough space in kindergartens and there are certain conditions that need to be met, and that is the priority that is given to parents who have working time indefinitely. On the other hand, in the most underdeveloped municipalities, you have a problem with kindergarten, which may be from eight to 16 hours, where there are not enough children for a group, so in groups you have children of different ages and that's something I expect from all my colleagues and colleagues to open up as a topic. On the other hand, I have to mention that when we talk about the job and the employment of women, we must not forget that the care of the elderly in the family is mostly taken by women and that is one of the segments that we should pay attention to. Sometimes it happens that they don't ask for a job, just because they have a lot of obligations in the house and around the house, as they say. Of course, that this legislative proposal is good and I may personally have some doubts about this breast-feeding break, and yesterday my colleague mentioned it and the promoter gave the answers that this would depend on the agreement and will of the employers, whether this breast-feeding will take place in the premises of the employer or have a break to get out of the workplace. I think the state's employers could make one effort and show the first one a valid signal in this particular sense. When we talk about increasing the birth rate, certainly what is already mentioned is a network of health institutions and an opportunity to exercise the right to health care, starting with primary health care. I think that's one question we might be able to discuss in the next period. Of course, after all that's been said, I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't support this legislative proposal, and it's especially a pleasure when we hear it and when I'm in this House for the first time, which is five years, I've seen a list of people reported that all speakers will speak in a special sense, when it comes to this law. It is indeed a pleasure when such a broad consensus is created around this topic and when there are no preconditions or conditions that say – we will support it if; but simply, at first, everyone said - that we understand that this is a problem Serbia and that we are all standing together in front of each other, in order to solve it as best possible. Could this legal proposal have been any better? Probably. What will the effects be of its application? Well, we'll see when we start applying it and I'm happy to respond to the proposal that we all follow the implementation of this law. Of course I'm aware of the poverty of our society and it's a big question of funding this obligation. But I'm also convinced that she's necessary, and certainly not enough and I really think we should talk about this very often in the future. Once again, I would say that we from the URS are aware of the problems that Serbian citizens face, we are aware that we must work on even regional development and we are aware that such solutions should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14302	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14303	The President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, we have before us today a bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Act, which, in the form in which it is proposed, has as its task or objective a very specific part of the population that is very sensitive and affects a very sensitive state. That's why our attention to this law has been increased amongst all, and it's for a reason. Basically, this bill changes two members. This is a concrete proposal to supplement Article 93 of the new Articles 93 and 187, where heading 2 is amended and a new position 3 is added. With these seemingly small changes, a significant effect is being achieved, which is to improve the position of women during pregnancy and childbirth, i.e. during the care and care of children in his first year of life. When we look at the essence, we see that there is a foundation in the obligation and responsibility of the state to regulate and provide the system in the field of labour relations, labour protection, employment, social security and the like. The second key term is actually the term "mother." It, as the Constitution says, deserves or enjoys special protection in accordance with the law and according to which the mother is provided special support and protection before and after delivery. This is also in the context of the proposal, and this also stands as a reminder to all of us that, in fact, these two key things for us as a orientation and when we talk about this bill, but also when we are dealing with and considering the issue of population policy must certainly be at the heart of attention. Finally, we can see from the reasons that these proposals are made in order to implement the abovementioned and constitutional principles, as well as the implementation of the IOR 183 Convention on the Protection of Motherhood, which is also a good practice, that the conventions that are adopted in the field of the IOR or other, actually become part of our legislation and become part of the lives that we want to bring into line with our system here. In particular, these little changes give us two solutions. It is a general protection against the cancellation of a work contract, which has been reached for a certain period of time. I underline this because it does not also imply the employer's obligation to accept, at the end of that worker's illness, that he is working in a regular working relationship with indefinite times, and in that sense he is merely a social category. It also provides certain protection for women during working hours for the time to breast-feed a child. These are, of course, very good reasons and are protected by women, mothers and children and families from social danger in the most sensitive period of life. In particular, we have before us an initiative that allows a woman not to be abolished by social security during maternity leave, if she had a contract to work for a certain period of time. In doing so, I would like to remind myself that under the current Law on Labour, we are foreseen that there is a contract for a certain period of time to one year, and that, as we have heard from SDPS representatives, Mr Mijatovic, and this is present and known to us who are following this part of the legislative activities, is considering that the new labour law foresees work for a certain time, which will be possible for up to three years. From that point of view, we are obliged to more precisely and with increased responsibility, in future times, and when it comes to the adoption of this law, as well as the resolution and adoption of the overall measures of population policy, in relation to everything that is the protection of women, mothers and children, we have uninterrupted awake attention. So far, with the termination of the contract, there has been such a solution that the mother lost the right to compensate for the earnings that all women who are employed have, with a contract to work indefinitely. Of course, this idea, of course, that I will personally support any such proposal or any such proposal, personally and certainly, the SPS in this part, when we are discussing this law, will gladly accept an initiative like this that solves a very serious problem. Finally, I must mention, too, that, when we observe the fate of the Labour Act itself since 2000, it has been changed seven times so far. Every time they change, or better to say new solutions that have been offered, the rights of employees have been reduced, thus also the rights of mothers and children. I must also remind myself that in 1996, the Labour Act had a elaborate system of measures that protected the mother, the child, especially in his first year of life, or supported the mother for the second, especially the third child. He had a mandatory child's allowance, an insurance fee of 100% during his absence from work, in the entire territory of the Republic, which is not the case now. I don't think we as MPs had enough courage when we adopted the Budget and Budget Act for this year, to plead and then to an initiative that would provide for this kind of application in practice, which I think all mothers would very much support and that would far more strongly support this very sensitive category of population. I hope that we will soon be able, that is, to the next planning, that is, to adopt the budget, to predict this category in time, to ensure economic conditions and to make it so and sustainable. So, in fact, I would ask all of us a question – why didn't we have the courage not to include this bill and the proposal previously made, precisely on this 100% profit to provide, why did he not look at the minimum level of support for single parents, and these are mostly women and mothers who stayed with children, who are in a very difficult category, because they are often jobless and in every sense increased social support is very important to them? Why didn't he give more support to children, mothers and families of children with special needs, etc.? Why did he not consider reducing prices, or VAT on products for children, in order to expand the fight for birth? Why didn't he systematically propose measures for an active fight against the white plague in Serbia, because this is just one detail - let's step by step. I think that we would all be more pleased if we were in a position to consider more issues, to talk about what is happening today from the point of view of their sustainability, and in this direction our policy here is being represented. Such a comprehensive proposal would certainly be more adequate to what we call a population policy and essentially solve both the position and the protection of mothers and children. It would also be a more comprehensive response to the problem and consequences of the population's depopulation. This way we change only a fraction and demand positive public effects which would be an incentive for us to encourage any similar future initiatives. In the future, I am certainly more in favour of the comprehensive proposals that would be made, because in this way they represent the responsibility of all of us to one problem that is very present and that we are talking about more and more and more for a reason. I would point out or point out this at my personal concern that, by changing certain parts of the law, in this case, in some case another law, where our attention is focused on only one phenomenon, so in a series of laws, we appear after the phenomenon to regulate, not to get to the point that our system is not sufficiently balanced in certain segments of it, and then we produce in one detail European standards, and in another detail we leave, conditionally speaking, Balkan standards. Here, when we talk about it, I'm referring to it as a purely illustrative illustration of some parts of the system, which, for example, appeared a month ago here, in the presence of aflata of toxins in milk, where we brought the standard of milk to one level, and left the level of livestock food at a completely different level. These events occur in many other places. They don't work because they produce negative effects, and they're asking us to put them in one plane that will provide in all the details and points that the system is functional and adequate to what we want and how we want the state to exist and how we want it to work. I would like to say that our application of the law and the general legislative regulations can suffer from another problem, which is that the laws are passed, that there are no adequate sublegal acts and that, by doing so, the behaviour and application of the law, which the legislator of this law has also expressed sensitivity or concern, and I hope, of course, that this law will not come and that this law will have its own application in practice, because it is logical that we all support what is the protection of women, mothers and children, but I believe that the behavior that means disrespect of the law must in fact be less and less and less and less visible, because in this way we express our own responsibility for what we must in practice consider to be one responsibility for the form and manner of relations in the state and responsibility for respect of the system in all its segments. When it comes to the position of the wife, mother and child in this system and the protection of motherhood, this is where it is predicted and appealed to the great responsibility of the employer and the responsibility of the inspection. We must bear in mind that here, when it comes to inspection, they themselves have turned to attention that there are seven measures to be taken, which are not strictly foreseen by the law itself, which is, for example, the urgent conduct of an inspection on the requirements regarding the protection of motherhood. It's something that comes from life itself and from practice. Then, rigorous inspection of the inspection, even civil servants, who comply with these requirements, formation, for example, of the special department of inspection of the work responsible for the protection of motherhood. So this suggests a problem in application, in behavior, even in the appearance of mobbing in the workplace even in these cases. These are, for example, phenomena that were present in the investigation of the legal team. Also, in other species' research, it is present that in 90% of the cases, labour inspection refuses to receive oral application of maternity care, that 83% of inspections violate at least one human right of maternity care, in 87% of court proceedings, in 77% of maternity care is a victim of labour abuse. These are facts, they say, from life. In front of all of us, the question is how to solve problems, how to stabilise society, to ensure the safety and protection of individuals, but also families, of course, in line with the opportunities of the state in all areas and segments of life and work and employment and protection and education and culture? In this context, there is also a systemic commitment to reacting and creating a population climate and policy that would be comprehensive. Here I might only comment on the doubtful colleague Travar, if we were late in that part, almost, because the pyramid of the age structure in Serbia at the moment is very unfavourable and indicates that it is difficult to move from this condition to the positive one, which would ensure a repeat of the population. It's supposed to be our exclusive rapper, because everything else we do becomes meaningless if we're not there tomorrow. We must be aware that in these conditions today in which we are not easy, because for the last ten years we have been eyewitnesses and actors that democratic change has not led to the expected changes and given the expected results. Today, something has happened in life that we might call vulgar original or liberal capitalism and in creating, or the adoption of new laws, often by prescribing models from various European legislations, I have nothing against it, but I have when they are not in line with the possibilities that our country can provide and then are actually left to hang in the air. In these processes, we easily abandoned the models and solutions that we once had in the country, which were good. Not to elaborate further, I will set an example for Slovenia, which many laws from the Socialist Yugoslavia and solutions have not rejected, and we are and we are very fast and very easy. Here we are talking about whether the employer will create conditions for the mother to breastfeed a child, and I will remind you that we in businesses had kindergartens that protected children while the mother was in the workplace, which, by introducing the previous system, we have easily rejected and said that the company is not responsible, it is not a social institution, but it is a state and that all that protection of women, mothers and children should be a state obligation. Is it now easy and simply to return to that obligation or both awareness and responsibility and employer as we do in Serbia today? All of this, I think, is not a party issue for any political party. This is a human, professional, moral question and a matter of responsibility. Time to improvise, I think it's over. This is a time of general and personal responsibility for everyone and we need to show that we have it. It must quickly create a social climate, that it is good to be valuable, honest, honorable, honest, patriot, educated, solid, without calculating any kind of thing. With this government, these processes have also begun and how we come to what we aim at spiritual, economic, moral, national, judicial and overall recovery, we actually come to the first sentence in the exposé of the Prime Minister that population policy is our first goal, so that all of these can be realized later and that we can create a country that is satisfied with the model of a country where our children could grow up tomorrow. The model of the state they want to stay in, not that they want to go to the white world, the model of the state that they're going to inherit tomorrow for a reason and with pride from us. So, if we have all this in mind one more time, I'm going to repeat it at least one step at a time, and the SPS, and I'm going to be happy to be involved in the realisation of these goals and these kinds of tasks. I personally think, therefore, once again that we would all be more pleased that this debate has shown, that all these measures and suggestions were both more courageous and comprehensive, and I think that this responsibility is ahead of us, that we will show this courage in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14304	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14305	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have before us a law that some colleagues, and I absolutely agree with, said it was a law of good intentions. But at first glance, at first reading, it seems to me that he is conceptually contradictory. Namely, he has two members. In the first article, women who have the right to leave after the birth of a child for up to a year say that they can go back to work before that deadline, and that they will be allowed time to breast-feed a child, and in the second article they say – women who work for a period of time – use their maternity leave and leave for child care, do not return, no one can quit you. Conceptional contradictory two messages are being sent. What actually happened with the amendments to this law, and what has been achieved, and what problems are possible in the possible application of these two members, I will try to show by analysing the content of the proposal that is ahead of us. So, in the Labour Act, only two members are changed, and by an urgent procedure, although we all know that any measure that should have the most intelligent character should be carefully and accurately established, so if we are lucky that we have done a good and professional job of good consequences, we will not feel it until the years ahead. So I really don't see any reason for us to discuss two members of this bill as an emergency procedure. On the other hand, because of the speed, therefore, of the speed of adoption, of proposing these solutions that are now ahead of us, there are many concerns that the effects of these solutions will produce and whether, and I suspect that some of these consequences will be quite contrary to the good intentions of the legislator? We've already said only two members of the Labour Act change if we don't count on Article 3 talking about the entry into force of this law. This is rather strange, because since the start of the term of office, the government has announced serious changes to the Labour Act, and the resolution minister, so the Ministry of Labour said on the Committee on Labour and Social Policy the other day that unfortunately, we cannot have this law here in Parliament before the end of the year, so the expectations of the promoter who brought out here today that in a month, two of us will have this bill, are simply not realistic. The debate on the working version of the amendments to the Labour Act, particularly with trade unions, shows that these changes are primarily initiated by employers and foreign investors, that the proposals are very restrictive on the rights of employees already achieved, and that trade unions have serious reserves. As a result, it will be difficult to establish a consensus through social dialogue on the scale and character of the changes that are planned. I hope there is no need to stress how important it is to achieve, therefore, a social consensus especially when it comes to employee rights, because without this consensus there is no success of the economic and social reforms ahead of us. Why do I remind you of this? Because this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which is before us, MP Stefanovic, even if it was only two members, did not consult the government's social economic council for these changes, and especially not the trade unions. Since there are no EU standards and recommendations relating to the normative content of these regulations, the proposer calls for implementation in the light of the law, domestic legislation on breast-mother provisions of IOR No 183 on the protection of motherhood by the International Labour Organisation. We ratified this convention in 2010. I have carefully looked at the convention once more, and I have not seen which member of the convention has not already been implemented in our legislation, and it refers to working mothers who breastfeed children. When it comes to Convention number 183, I would say that we are short of clear legal provisions, that an employed woman has the right to return after maternity leave and leave because of child care, to the same or the right job, with the same income as the appropriate measures to prevent motherhood from being a source of discrimination in the field of work. The trade unions when they talk about the IOR Convention, number 183, especially and rightly suggest that we need legal solutions where the burden of proof, that the grounds for dismissal have nothing to do with pregnancy and childbirth, is borne by the employer, but that the existing level of protection of motherhood is maintained, including the duration of maternity leave and absence for child care. The draft law of counterpart Stefanovic does not deal with these topics at all, although it calls for the IOR Convention. I would understand the need for Article 1 of this proposed law, if such a member were to propose that working mothers have the right to daily breaks or to reduce working hours for breast-feeding, when they returned to work after using the law of their prescribed absence for a year, but wanted to continue breast-feeding. Such a solution would have something to do with this IOR Convention, which Mr Stefanovic is referring to, but Article 1 is not about that at all, but about the working mothers who will, before the deadline that the law gives them, for a year, return to work. Here is what is really proposed to Article 1. The employer shall be obliged to provide the working woman who returns to work before the end of the year from the birth of the child with the right to one or more daily breaks during daily work for a total duration of 90 minutes or for a reduction in working time of 90 minutes, etc. The fee paid to the employee on the basis of the use of a break or a reduction shall be paid at the level of the basic earnings increased for past work. Nowhere in the law stands and it's completely unclear who pays for it? The employer or the Republic budget? The legislator leaves us here without an answer, but does he not tell us the reasons for ending maternity leave or leave because of child care? What are the reasons for going back to work - personal career reasons, employer pressures, or something else? In the Ministry of Labour and Employment, whose budget refunds for maternity benefits of 100% and to tell all births in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there is no information in the Ministry of Labour that women interrupt maternity leave and leave due to child care and return to work before the deadline expires. Also, there is no research on whether a significant percentage of women who would end their absence and return to work, or perhaps there is pressure from employers to return to work before the deadline expires. It was possible to adopt a solution characterised by some Western European countries, where women earlier return from maternity leave and leave because of child care, but in these Western European countries, 100% of women's benefits are paid only during maternity leave and only three months. We have the same maternity leave that lasts three months. The profits paid for that period, which is usually shorter, for the care of the child, all receive the same, regardless of their actual earnings before the opening of the sick. So we have a case that those women who receive low earnings remain on leave, and those women who otherwise earn more are determined to interrupt that part of the absence that is intended for the care of the child. It's not even a practice that's applicable here. I repeat, with all the women employed throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia receive 100% of the fees per year for both maternity and child care. There women decide that they can use a shorter leave for child care because it is financially worth it. Here, with us, women have no motive for that. That is why it seems to me that when we do not already have serious research, relevant information from the Ministry of Labour, union positions, the Directorate for Gender Equality, including the expert public, so that the adoption of a solution proposed by MEP Stefanovic could raise a number of issues, such as: Is it necessary to change this fundamental right that an employed woman should benefit from the absence of a year from the birth of a child? Is it too long a leave of absence from work? Are women in our labour legislation overprotected and so uncompetitive in the labour market? I ask these questions because they are already open. These are topics that are present in some parts of the neoliberal professional public, but in employers and foreign investors, especially when changes to the Labour Act are now being discussed. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the law provides for it, and this is completely forgotten in this proposal by fellow Stefanovic, that an employed woman has the right to maternity leave and the right to stay away from work for the care of the child for the third and each subsequent child for a total duration of two years. Therefore, the current Labour Act strongly protects motherhood in Serbia, with nearly 25 billion dinars on an annual basis alone for maternity benefits. I really don't doubt the good intentions of the promoter, and all MPs have spoken in that spirit, and we DS MPs also have understanding for women who have serious professional careers and want to return early, not to take advantage of the whole year, but I note that the existing law is no obstacle to them even doing so. If we put in place this possibility and legally, it really opens up to some government, let the future congregation majority start to consider the issue of the reduction and reduction of these fundamental rights. The crisis is here, and maybe some finance minister will say -- we have a huge deficit, there's 20, 30, 35 billion spending on this, in Western Europe these absences are shorter, women are uncompetitive in the labour market because of such protection and let's change that. When it comes to the first member of this law, many dilemmas are really opening up. I ask the question – is it necessary? I don't see any serious reason for him to be introduced into the law. Also, I would like to remind you that this is a good protection of motherhood that exists in the current Labour Act, if it were the result, I would say, serious research and reflections, expert research and attitudes that preceded this law, I would also say the views of some international organisations, such as: UNICEF or the World Health Organization, which underline the crucial importance for the child's overall development to be with her mother at birth. I really don't see any reason to introduce this first member. When it comes to Article 2 of which is the working term for which the contract established a working relationship for a specified period extends until the expiry of the right to maternity leave or leave for the care of the child and special care of the child, it is also acceptable, as it is at first sight, to protect women's employees, because under the applicable law during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave for the care of the child and leave for the special care of the child, it may cease working relationship after the expiry of the period for which it is designed. The promoter rightly states that from such a specific angle, the position of pregnant women could be protected because they are at greater risk of being extended, not by the expiry of the labour contract, but by women who are already on maternity leave, since the remuneration is refunded and is responsible for the budget of the Republic rather than by the employer. It seems to me that even here they are not seriously investigated and dangerous enough, that a solution like this may be made before, quite unconsciously, discrimination against women in employment. This solution tells the employer in advance that no matter what he has hired a woman on a given deadline, she will remain employed as long as she is pregnant, then using maternity leave for child care, and hypothetically she will remain employed, and if she remains pregnant again during that absence, until another child turns one year old. In the public sector, it is not a problem and I support this solution. We could say that the state needs the tax resources of all citizens to help young women decide on motherhood, that at least two, three years are financially supported and insured. However, I am almost certain that this solution will completely discourage employers in the private sector from hiring young women, and for this kind of discrimination tomorrow we cannot blame private employers but rather this legal solution that we will bring. These are all potential risks of Article 2. The bill, because in this proposal, too, obviously, no research or evaluation has preceded any possible consequence of such a solution. In Article 2, I am concerned by another indiscretion and inaccuracy. Namely, the right to compensation during maternity leave and leave for the care of the child and special care of the child is governed by the applicable Labour Act and the Law on financial support of the family with children, in the amount of 100% of the earnings paid out of the Republic budget. In those laws, you are not defined anywhere by the right to make a living during pregnancy, if your contract of employment has ceased to apply, and you are more likely to open up maternity leave and leave for the care of a child. Even in an explanation, counterpart Stefanovic has easily stated that this change of employer will not be damaged because the payout during maternity leave, the absence of child care and child's special care is carried out on the burden of budget funds, from the position of the Ministry of Labour, etc. So, not a word about who's going to pay for a pregnant woman who, for example, is in the fourth month of pregnancy and brings out her working relationship for a certain time, the employer can't fire her and that's great, but whoever makes up for her, we don't know that from the two proposed members. We have a legal void that may be overcome in real life by the fact that, at that time, healthy pregnant women will all go to pregnancy. They wait for birth and then open up maternity leave, or other absences that go to the burden of the budget. If that's how this legal void is solved, and probably will, then other problems are opening up. Namely, according to the Health Insurance Act when you are on sick leave in connection with the maintenance of pregnancy the first 30 days of earnings are paid at 100% and on the burden of the employer. So we haven't consulted the employers at all about these changes. After the first month, earnings are paid at 65% of the earnings on the health insurance burden, and only from 1 January 2014 on the health insurance burden will 65% be paid and on the burden of the budget 35%. Dear colleagues, we have two members of the law, the first of which is quite controversial, because I don't know who he's protecting, and it opens up the possibility that in some immediate future this right will be dramatically reduced for our women, and the second member has problems with the payout of women's pregnant women's work contracts. The employer can't fire her. The salary should secure the budget by the time you go to maternity leave. No law knows that kind of compensation. (President: Time. ) I think that solutions are quite hasty, that they are not improved and that they may have consequences that are quite contrary to the proposal's intentions, which are to improve the protection of the motherhood of women employed. I'm stressing employees, and as you know, there are a lot more unemployed women, unfortunately, and they're facing much bigger problems in achieving motherhood. That's why as Parliament and government...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14306	Thank you, Mrs. Lucic, since you've been talking for half a minute. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14307	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us amendments and additions to the Labour Act that should improve the position of women, to contribute to the promotion of gender equality in the field of work and equal opportunities policy. Although I would have thought a little bit more about the consequences this law and these changes have to bring, I say that this is more about positive discrimination, but not the way it is done in Russia, where a few months ago President Putin's statement to whom no mother who has a child for up to three years can be left without a job, no father who is the family who has more children can be left without a job, and that's what the state is worried about. So the state provides funds in the budget for that part. I'm afraid that we here, a little bit of the cake, are moving to the employer's back, and in that sense, the DSS also has concerns that those who are actors of work and work space in this area have not been consulted, and these are trade unions and employers and, on the other hand, the ministry, and then in this dialogue, you might find a way for everyone to take over part of their responsibility and that the law really does have an application. So, we have to say that we've had a very good labour law so far that protected the rights of pregnant and maternity employees. Those rights have been reached. I don't know why we're ignoring that information. On the other hand, Serbia has the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. In 2008, the U.S. Serbia has adopted a great strategy to encourage birth, but the official view of the state is to halt the application of this strategy because the state has not provided funds in the budget for years to implement this strategy. So we have some documents that are very important. We have measures that and how they encourage and provide for the rights of pregnant women and maternity mothers, but in some ways we don't control the application of this law and the implementation of these measures. On the other hand, as a member of the DSS, I have to say that the DSS has an excellent programme of demographic giant Serbia, and we are also predicting a series of measures that are part of the Labour Act, but we and how we talk about that dialogue, and this dialogue is crucial for us, we need to find models to implement the law and to ensure the rights achieved. We are also clear on the proposal's intention. We understand the context in which the law is passed, but we also expected that a complete Labour Law would be found before us, a fully reformed Labour Act, a new one, which should change circumstances and bring about a better one. This is a small part of it. We're not sure anything's gonna change. On the other hand, we have to say that we have confirmed from the Ministry of Labour that there is a memo from the Brussels administration asking our ministry to enter into this new law and that after 90 days, three months after birth, women return to work. That makes sense in some major urban environments where women follow careers and everything else. I can imagine the level of discrimination that would follow if such a provision were adopted, because if there is a possibility, a private employer will put a woman before the final act – you will return after three months or your place is taken by someone else. We have a situation where all those appeals and calls from the government that women of pregnant women and maternity women don't simply turn into a complete opposite and that it's a completely opposite effect. We are all witnesses because we read in various media that a very large number of pregnant and maternity women are being fired. We have this unfortunate problem about what the demographic situation in Serbia looks like, if we were the oldest nation, that's what my colleagues said before, I wouldn't talk about it, because there are a lot of things I'd like to say. I have to point out that there are a number of sociological research related to the labour market and that the victims of transition are only women and that they are the easiest to remain unemployed and are most difficult to work with, that there are a large number of data about women and men being in the same workplace and that they are quite different, that only when it comes to women who are employed, who are candidates for work, employers, and especially private employers, ask questions about private plans, about family formation, about the number of children, etc. We have information that 53% of women went through that torture to be asked for their private plans, how they plan to form their family. We also have data that women are making very little progress in the hierarchy of enterprises. There's a level around here somewhere up to where they can progress. You have information that only 20% of Serbian managers are women. Is it so hard that women can't do it or is it a little complicated procedure so they don't understand? Pregnancy and motherhood are the reasons for discrimination for women who work and every third woman who worked during the research and was in a different state was discriminated against. Some of the forms of discrimination that they have been fired, that they have been transferred to inadequate jobs, necessarily less paid, that they interrupt maternity leave prematurely because they are conditioned to do so or have an irregular payment of maternity benefits. A lot of women, I think almost all the women in this room who are mothers have experienced such a situation. I'm an example. Research results then say that women working in the private sector are more discriminated against, 64% of women, than in the public sector, and that much more discrimination against women who work on black than those who have a job indefinitely. The impact of the contract is also very important. Women who were employed at a certain time were more exposed to discrimination, and they were 57%. In circumstances where there is a white plague in Serbia, when we have a huge demographic problem, when the situation is the way it is in school, where you have a growing number of champions and everything else that comes out of it, you discriminate against women just because they want to give birth. The state has passed laws and measures to improve and stimulate birth, but the impression is that these measures remain on the margins, that they are only in principle added, that they are declarative. I'm going to say the example that someone here mentioned completely in another context. I see him the way he really is. When Prime Minister Dacic said in his exposé that this government would deal with the demographic policy and demographic reconstruction of Serbia, the DSS was really looking forward to it, but then the measures followed not to abolish VAT on baby equipment, but to return in some period, so women should just get sacks to collect their bills, and that will sometimes come back to them, if not sooner. Pregnant women complain that they are easily fired in Serbia, and even if they remain in a working relationship, they cannot earn the right to receive adequate compensation. That's what the labour inspectors say, that's their data. Parental associations, for a long time, warn of a problem that is also discrimination, which we DSS MPs talk about both when it comes to pensioners and when it comes to maternity and pregnant women. There are cities in Serbia, there are two, which pay 100% profit, but pregnant women actually have an unequal salary during pregnancy. Only two cities in Serbia pay 100% of their profits. That's what we're talking about. Why would someone in my Valjev have less rights than someone in Belgrade or in Jagodina who pays for it? The Gender Equality Commissioner warns that the most common way to fire is not to extend the labor contract when it comes to pregnancy. Namely, many women are employed at a certain time, some have a contract on work, and then when they announce to the employer changes in their status, the contract stands out and they stop working. The fact that discrimination is a simple fact that, in a very short time, an employer hires another person in the same workplace. So he needs a person in that workplace. Although under the law an employer cannot fire a pregnant woman, nor can he put her in an unfavourable position, to transfer her to a more unfavourable workplace, she is in reality different. They are both fired and transferred to places that are inappropriate and have lower profits. The penalty for such a thing is according to the existing law to a million dinars for an employer. I have to ask a question, really while I was getting ready for this, I asked for data, how many employers paid a fine of a million dinars or even a penalty for this? I really couldn't find the information. That doesn't mean he's gone. I just couldn't find that information. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that the state has mechanisms, there are labour inspectors, they find themselves incompetent. Here's an example. I have two examples. One is from Vojvodina Development Bank, where 30 maternity and pregnant women requested that the executive board of this bank protect them from being fired. However, they received an answer that the board was not in charge. Then they got a quiet, short message from the personnel service that if they sign the cancellation agreement they could get some 2000-euro compensation, and if they don't sign, they'll go to the labour market without it all. The most interesting comment of the bank's leadership is that the employment of pregnant women, maternity workers, workers who are absent because of child care or special care of children is morally, human and socially logical, but the inspections are silent, and women are out of work. The second case is even more drastic. A woman who works in a Belgrade bakery, who is pregnant, cannot verify her book, because the employer does not pay contributions. Then the labour inspection, which succeeds in two months, and the woman gets a health book, but then she doesn't get compensation for her illness, because the inspection isn't competent. The inspection becomes responsible for the moment this case appears in the media. This shows that the state does not use its mechanisms and knowingly deny its right to intervene. According to the Equality Trustee in 2012 there were 20 complaints concerning pregnant, i.e. maternity and legal status of women. In the first two months of 2013, there are already 10 such examples. What I'm saying is that women either become more conscious, so they seek their rights, or that number grows every day. Trustees generally address two categories of future mothers, which are those that work under contract for a certain period of time and those who are constantly employed. This first category, according to the contract at a certain time, the employer can legally terminate a working relationship when the contract expires, but somehow that contract always stands out when a woman is pregnant and eventually cannot exercise some other rights because she is fired and which other women are employed. Since it does not violate, formally, the Labour Act, then there is no intervention and discrimination is much more difficult to prove. You have to prove it indirectly, whether a woman has worked in that workplace for a long time, whether someone else has been admitted. The second category and the second group of problems relate to women who return to work after maternity leave and then get demoted or fired. Again, they are waiting for a new job that is less paid, etc. The state is acting like it's completely powerless in this matter, and it's not powerless in this matter. The state needs to intervene. She has inspections to do her job. When the inspection does its job, the employers will realize that they must meet their legal obligations. Now another question – why are employers doing this? Let's try to answer the question -- are employers so unconscious, are they socially irresponsible people, are they people who only profit comes first? It's not. Employers have their logic, but they need to be negotiated. This was the ideal space to talk to employers. We have contacted the employers' union and we have received very good suggestions on how things will be resolved, so that pregnant women and maternity women have their rights guaranteed by law, these are rights achieved, and on the other hand, not to be an employer to harm them. If he's in harm's way, he doesn't need to run social policy. Social policy in the state is run by the state, not by companies. You're not asking the factories to run your social policy. That's what the state should do. Our biggest regret is that employers aren't consulted, which the unions aren't asked, which wasn't discussed. This is a space for social dialogue. We won't be against this law, but we're very abstentioned. We will follow this law because we are afraid it will lead to many open situations, which will be at the expense of maternity and pregnant women and their guaranteed rights, at this point, will be compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14308	The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14309	Dear Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to say that, on the one hand, I am sorry that there is even a need for one of these important things of life to be governed by the law, and on the other hand, unfortunately, there is an unequivocal need for it to be solved in this way. I am convinced that none of us in this room, and I believe many outside of it, can imagine all the problems facing those who are trying to find a job, and what worse and harder demands they face to keep that same job. Among them are the hardest women to pass, the ones they plan to achieve as mothers. Many times I have heard from my friends that many employers almost always ask, directly or indirectly, about their plans for children and family. Some of the employers are asking job candidates to fill out questionnaires with questions that deeply affect the private lives of candidates. Some of these questions are: Who guards your children, are your parents living, how long have you been married, is your child going to a private or public entertainment site? Many employers come to this information through informal conversation, although such an act can be punished and sanctioned, but most women do not want to report it because it remains without a chance of getting a job for the place she applied for. However, I have often had the opportunity to hear almost the same sentence from many women who applied to the workplace, so they were disappointed after the job talks, and that sentence is – not that employers want to act like one, but it can. Indeed, that sentence made sense, because they were out of work, and employers hired those who, by their measure, by their mold, those who suit them, often with lower professional training and all with the excuse to stick to legal frameworks. I once heard an employer say he didn't need a lot of smart workers, because he'd know he was interpreting the law for his own good. What I am as a woman and as someone who plans to have children of particular concern is that more women in Serbia choose between giving birth and working. This story rarely refers to women who were fortunate to be employed in public enterprises and state institutions. However, it is not rare that employers in the private sector, almost as a condition for signing a contract indefinitely, from workers, and especially from women, require that they sign in advance blank cancellations or something like that, which is their will and is mainly the will of employers and their interest. There are no rare cases where employers employ workers exclusively by contracts at a certain time, to make sure that something will not happen in favour of the employee and to their harm. On the other hand, women who choose to work and become pregnant lose their jobs, often lose their reason for being happy to be mothers, because they are aware of becoming economically dependent on their husbands and families. Such women often face a loss of self - confidence and often become victims of domestic violence, and they may find it most difficult when they lose their answers to themselves. Why is this happening to them and is it possible that no one can protect them? At this point, about 36,900 maternity homes in Serbia hope to be waited for after maternity leave. We are a country with the oldest population and the lowest birth rate in Europe, and employers in our country are increasingly forgiving for pregnancy or maternity leave. I was shocked by an example of a woman from kickinda who, after an out-of-body insemination program, had a baby and then lost her job. You can imagine how she felt in this woman and how she felt about a state that talks and works to encourage birth, and then there's no help when she's out of a job. Amendments and additions to the Labour Act shall be made in order to ensure that the protection of women who remain in a second condition and by amending Article 2 of Article 187 which states that a woman, although employed on the basis of a contract of work at a specified time, after the expiry of that time, which is stated in the contract of employment, is extended until the expiry of the right to leave, and that the employer’s resignation is void, provided that the employer has been aware that there is a fact that the woman is pregnant or she confirms it within 15 days, or brings confirmation from the physician that she is pregnant. This change will not damage the employer because the payout during maternity leave is carried out on the burden of budget funds, from the position of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. The employer is required to make payment only for the first month, after which this amount is refunded. The second section of assistance for women, more specifically to families, which is provided for by this draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, is in Article 93a, and speaks of the fact that, if a woman returns to work for any reason before the expiry of the time provided for maternity leave, the employer is obliged to provide her with a daily rest period of 90 minutes or to shorten her working time for 90 minutes. It is also foreseen that this break or shortened working hours should be calculated in working hours and that the remuneration is paid on that basis at the level of the earnings. One of the grounds for making such changes and additions, already existing law, is also contained in the Constitution, which says in principle that in the Republic of Serbia, mother enjoys special support and protection before and after birth. The basis for amending and supplementing the Labour Act is also in line with the provisions of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 138 on the protection of motherhood, which prescribe that women should be entitled to one or more daily breaks or work hours, so that they can breast-feed their child, and that their wages and time are counted as regular working hours. This supplement refers to a case where an employed woman, on a personal request, terminates maternity leave and returns to work early. I am truly sorry that, as a criticism of this draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act, I have heard comments in terms of – will the money needed for this purpose be allocated from the budget or will it go to the employer's burden? Is that all that matters now? Isn't it the most expensive thing to be at the expense of someone's life? Isn't it the most expensive thing to be at the expense of a woman giving up motherhood? What I would like to believe and see in the future is the consistent implementation of these amendments and the addition of the Labour Act that is being discussed today, and, above all, the protection of women and maternity care. I would hate for women to continue living in fear, being powerless, alone and forgotten, and when employers' minds weren't something we could count on, let's believe this law would contribute to protecting what's most valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14310	Thank you. We are now moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14311	Thank you, esteemed chairman. First of all, I will welcome Mr Stefanovic's proposal, first of all because of his intention which is undoubtedly good, but also because of the fact and courage that he stopped himself and signed himself under this bill, which is, of course, politically wise and collects such political points, of course, if you come from the largest party in position, and with us who belong to the opposition, there is no such thing as the case. I'll base myself, first of all, on some suggestions, because my colleague Mirko Chikiriz put his praises out, but I'm in charge here for criticism. Namely, the constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of this law is in the provisions of Article 97, point 8) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for the system in the field of labour relations, in fact, protection of labour, employment, social security and all other forms of social security, as well as Articles 66 and 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the mother in the Republic of Serbia enjoys special protection and according to the law and according to which special support and protection is provided to the mother, both before and after delivery. But this article 66. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia needs to be seen in its entirety, so it is indicative why certain provisions are drawn up in a particular context that have absolutely no contact points with specific labour provisions other than those relating to children under the age of 15 cannot be employed, nor under the age of 18, that they cannot work on jobs harmful to their health or morals, which is not the subject of this bill. The Proposer, I think, avoids the fact that there are other provisions in this Constitution, for example, Article 48(2), which determines that children, pregnant women, mothers during maternity leave, single parents with children by the age of seven, and the old one achieves health care from public incomes, if they do not otherwise, again in accordance with the law. The need for implementation in the domestic legislation of the provisions on mothers and sucklers laid down in Convention No 183 on the Protection of Motherhood, adopted by the International Labour Organisation and ratified by this Assembly by the claim that it was not discussed in the adoption of the Labour Act, is therefore incorrect. Although this convention was mentioned, on the protection of motherhood, ratified in 2010 and thus became an integral part of our legal system, it was just known to the legislators of the already mentioned law of 2005. By the very act of ratifying such a convention, it has become an integral part of our legal system, and hence there is no special need for its inclusion in any law or labour law. The above convention gives the right to propose, in the Labour Act, that after Article 93, a new member, 91 and 92, should also be proposed. As a well-intentioned recommendation from this member that I am not going to read right now, I don't have that much time, we can understand that the working hours are cut in 90 minutes, but we can't understand the provision of one or more daily breaks during daily work, and in a total duration of 90 minutes, at which the working woman will breast-feed her child. Provisions referred to in Article 10. The conventions mentioned above, on the protection of motherhood, adopted by the International Labour Organisation, set out that women should be entitled to one or more daily breaks or to a reduction of working time, so that they can breast-feed their child. Article 2 of the same article determines that the time at which breast-feeding or part-time breaks and their number, the duration of the break and the process for cutting hours are prescribed by domestic law and practice. These breaks or shortened working hours are counted as working hours and paid accordingly. To every international right-holder, which I have no doubt is the magistrate Nebojsa Stefanovic, it is, did not miss the position of the 2nd member, the provisions that say that the procedure is actually prescribed by domestic law and practice, so in that sense it is also proposed that one or more daily breaks during the daily work be in a total 90-minute secretion, in which a woman who is employed will breast-feed her child. However, what has been forgotten to state in this bill is that in our country, 30% of people are unemployed, that national income per capita is the lowest in Europe, while I will not even talk about the standard of citizens. Of course, since I do not have much time, as regards Article 187 and its amendments to this proposal, we advocate that during pregnancy, maternity leave and leave due to child care, the employer cannot cancel an employment contract and in cases where a contract is based on a working relationship on a particular working time, but we do not understand why the employer, without any intention, and I do not have any sympathy for any employer, prior condemnation and why they impose obligations on him which he objectively does not need to know. Since I am running out of time soon, in order to improve this legal solution, I have proposed some amendments, which I hope the promoter will at least read them. On the other hand, I have to point out that we need to be aware of the fact that the European Commission is precisely asking us to form a special agency that is about to deal with the issue of baby theft research in our maternity homes, and what we can read about in today's daily press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14312	Thank you. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14313	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, when any draft law, amendment and amendment of the law comes into this high house, or when we propose our amendments, we must be aware that we have a significant impact on changing our minds and changing our relationship with certain problems that concern all of us. So we change someone's lives significantly, and that's what obliges us to make every such proposal truly responsible, as we owe it to the citizens who chose us, to decide and discuss. Since the children are our judges tomorrow, we need to discuss the bill that is before us, that is, the amendments and additions to the Labour Act that is really very humane and very positive. What's encouraging is that all the registered speakers on the list said they were for this bill. We have made some critical remarks, we have made and we are afraid that it will be difficult to implement and implement this law in practice, but what law has so far had no problem being implemented in practice? What law so far has people not tried to play in that famous manner of ours to find holes in the law, through which we're going to push through some of our personal interests? But there are laws, of course, that channel us and that society works better and for the benefit of all citizens alike. So what we realized, this is the first step on one long journey to something about society, in the consciousness of all of us, to change towards our future and to our Natalie. We find problems in the birth rate, we realize that every year a city of 35,000 people disappears, we realize that we have fewer children in schools, we realize that Serbia dies, that Serbia disappears in its villages, but we have not yet reached the end of the problem. This is one step along the 1,000-mile path, but one step still shortened that path to solve the problem. Personally, I believe that this government, that some next government must sit down and make a long-term policy on how to preserve living Serbia. None of us have any of this, none of Serbia's citizens have anything to do with us just realizing how many of us die annually, how many of us suffer from incurable diseases every year, how many children are less born. We don't have a lot of these attempts to solve the problems of Natalie. We will see what the effects of this law will be, because we will have the resistance of employers, even the inability of employers in many cases to meet. We'll also have abuses by employers. Just as this debate was taking place, I received information that a young woman, employed for five years in black with her employer, was not aware of whether they were working, when she was admitted for three months at a certain time, when she announced that she was pregnant, she was fired. So there's a lot that's going to be abused, because the human factor is such a factor. They say that people are the easiest things to do, and that's exactly what you can see in cases like this. It's not just about profit, there's a lot of things in society that have to be arranged to improve this particular picture and this relationship of our consciousness, our responsibility to what kind of society we want. I've already said, the children are our judges tomorrow, and that's what we have to handle in this law, as well as in all laws concerning birthrights. We were discussing Maria's Law. Do we want healthy company, that's what the question is we're asking. Breastfeeding, which should actually be an imperative of this law, is a mother and child contact. Breastfeeding is not only biological food, breastfeeding is primarily an emotional contact and a guarantee of a future healthy man. So breastfeeding is multiple for each individual. That's what we should respect in this bill. All conventions and everything else is what encourages it, but breastfeeding is irreplaceable in the life of a child and should be tried in every way and even forced to make it possible for a child to have that close contact with his mother. So it has a multiple role. First of all, if we're talking about the immune system, it's irreplaceable. If we're talking about the emotional relationship of child safety that it achieves during that period, it's irreplaceable. So I see this bill as a solution, i.e. an attempt to solve one problem and the possibility of one step towards making society healthier in every way. That's what some local self-governments have tried, and today it's said to solve in ways that they could within the means they have. Serbia is poor and cannot always be solved in the best way and in the desired and necessary way, because the needs are always far greater than our options, but it is certainly good intentions and should be welcomed. Any good and positive intention of local policy should be supported, copied if possible and applied elsewhere. You need to protect everyone's maximum rights. And there's always the protection of someone's interests. There will be little conflict between rights and interests here, but I really hope that, leading one social policy, we will find a way to overcome that, or to reconcile those two extremes, and that in the period ahead of us, when we apply these letters of the law and when the Labour Act is reorganised, which will be very difficult to redecorate and bring to some level to be again the largest number of citizens satisfied with it, it is also very much talked about, that is one of the most sensitive laws, that this segment that we are discussing today in this way and that we are about to be, remains, live to the satisfaction of all of us. Because we're in earlier practice, I'm one of the mothers who remembers it, had a very positive relationship with motherhood in society. The mothers were really protected. We had a third child for two years with him. That's irreplaceable. Society was poor and they found various ways, privatizing a lot of things. Only women in state institutions are protected. It may also be one of the reasons why such an attack on state institutions, when it comes to employment in state institutions, and it is impossible. What I certainly appeal to, and yet it is encouraging that we are all for this law, is that we follow its application very closely and see the shortcomings that may disappear in practice, to just perfect it for the rest of our lives, because that deserves our future, and the future is our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14314	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Milekić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14315	Dear colleagues, I have been reported, like all others who say I am in favour, but I also agree with most of the remarks made by my colleague Lučić, Vojić Markovic and Olgica Batic. But also, we all know that we live in a paradox country. It is known that everywhere in the world, in the poorest families, the most children are born, and the poorest countries, as a rule, have the highest birth rate, while in developed, rich countries, the birth rate is relatively decreasing and their population is on average much older. We have a very unusual case. We are one of Europe's poorest countries, but we are also the country with the oldest population and the smallest nationality. The results of Serbia's latest census prove that nationality should be one of Serbia's biggest concerns. By 2050, according to forecasts, Serbia will have barely six million inhabitants. We all know that negative natural growth is not only Serbia's specificity. It is similar in the countries of the environment, as in most developed countries of the world, but it is more expressed in us than in other countries. Rich countries, on the other hand, solve this problem in different ways. They stimulate birth, young couples, liberalise youth immigration continue to develop a strategy to increase birth. Some are more and some are less successful at it. counterpart Vojić Markovic mentioned Russia, and it is not worse for me to mention it, because Russia is one of the countries that has seriously tackled this problem and has finally brought the country, from a state of great negative growth, into a stable positive population growth. They had a series of measures, including the so-called. Mother's capital, which is actually 10,000 euros received by every mother who gives birth to another, third or any next child, which the family can spend on schooling a child, repairing living conditions and the like. Then, every Russian family, at the birth of a third child, gets a free pay for building a house and a series of other actions. Unfortunately, in our current financial situation, we can hardly support such actions. But there are a number of things that are not closely related to money that would make it much easier for families to decide on the birth of at least another child. One of the things is this little change of the Labour Act. Most of us know at least some young woman who has met different kinds of discrimination in her life and work, because they are mothers or because they will only be mothers. Unfortunately, it's not an urban myth about those phantom contracts that young women have to sign with employers, that they're not going to give birth to children in the next few years, and these employers are not just small or medium-sized private-owned enterprises, but also large world corporations, companies or banks operating on our market. Women are forced to accept jobs more and more frequently on the black side, are often declared a technological surplus after returning from maternity leave to lower and less paid jobs. We've heard it all before. Employers, of course, want to protect themselves from both a new pregnancy and frequent childcare conditions. We and that care that isn't just in the first year, but we meet, of course, and our children who are getting sick and employers are very concerned about those missing mothers who have to nurse sick children. A particular problem is for mothers who are employed on a specific or are under an authorial or contract of work, because such contracts do not recognise our legislation as equivalent to a labour contract and such persons cannot exercise their rights at all. Although the employer can pay up to a million dinars for breaking the Labour Act, I also found no case that a mother, damaged by such a relationship, came out of a long-standing and expensive court battle as a winner. There are several reasons why we need to all support amendments and additions to the Labour Act, of course, regardless of which policy options we come from. It is stated in the light of this law that we have an obligation to introduce in our legislation provisions on mothers of the 183 Convention on the Protection of Motherhood, adopted by the International Labour Organisation, and that the Constitution declares the principle of special protection for mothers and children and provides for the laws that we bring here. The convention, we've heard more than once, was ratified almost three years ago, but it still gets the impression that we, as a responsible state and society, should always be, always somehow deny and delay in these most humane things regarding the protection of mothers, but also, not only the protection of mothers, but the protection and rights of children. It is certainly good that at least today we have this bill on the agenda, because the proposed changes and additions provide the right for those mothers who decide to stop their maternity leave and get back to work early, that without fear of sanctioning by employers, they come out and give their children together at some time, and that at least during the period when they use absences due to pregnancy or maternity leave they will be without fear of losing their jobs and without being able to support their newly acquired family. We've heard more than once that even the employer won't be damaged because the funding from the compensation comes from budget funds. Surely it's not enough just this, so we can open a newspaper without fear of those headlines that say "Never less champions in schools", "Anniversals shut down an entire city", "Our nation is the oldest in Europe", "We are a people who are extinct" etc. These may be small steps, we know that much more radical and large procedures are needed, but I believe that this will also restore faith and hope to at least some young women, who may be having second thoughts as to whether they dare give the world another resident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14316	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14317	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I am absolutely sure that all of you will agree with me that these proposed amendments to the Labour Act relating to a certain greater protection of pregnant women and maternity women are indisputably causing a series of emotions for all of us. As one completely normal consequence of all this, there will be no MP in this parliament's voting day to vote against these proposed amendments. However, I hope that you will agree with me that making one law or amending the law only on the basis of emotion is also not good, especially since at least some of us have certain objections. These objections, above all, concern the urgency of the adoption of proposed amendments to the law, the non-consultation of those who are directly interested in these changes, primarily employers, but also trade unions. We must also respect the fact that, above all, I was much happier today that there is a proposal in parliament before the MPs, therefore, a new labour law, and not only its partial changes. Talking about one law based on emotion is not good, not because you won't vote for these changes and you won't support those changes, but because you know that the proposed changes aren't enough to solve the huge problems that pregnant women, maternity and women face today at all. So these changes or a proposal for these changes, and I only take it as a first step in solving the huge problems that women in Serbia face today, and I have to add, not just women, but citizens at all. I take this as a first step towards raising awareness, about one more serious approach to this problem, in order to solve it systemically. Today in parliament, many have talked about it, but it is not a waste to remind us that we are living in a country where there are fewer babies, that we live in a country where, between the two lists, there are about 31,000 fewer citizens, but we must remind ourselves that this is not only because of the decline of birth, but also because of the decline of economic, social and social standards and needs, especially young people, to leave Serbia and leave primarily economic reasons in the countries of Europe and the world. I must remind myself that the average age of today's average citizen in Serbia is 42.5 years, which in itself speaks enough. By the way, when we're talking about Natalie, then the key to this story is just the job. Because of work, many women today delay motherhood, giving birth instead of early 20s, in the late 30s, and not by accident. In that first period, they're looking for a job, and in the second period they're trying to keep that same job. Unfortunately, employers are well aware of that. So, by doing my job in the union, I have often met with the fact that many employers, in order to receive a woman, condition it by signing a single document, which it undertakes not to stay in a different state for a certain period of time. But a young woman also encounters the fact that she has to sign a document that gives a blank resignation and thus gets fired when she stays in a different state. They've been unions, for a long time, trying to solve it. The Association of Free and Independent Unions has made huge efforts to resolve this issue, informing the inspections, appeal to employers, reminding them of their social responsibility, but unfortunately we have had very little success. In fact, it is not surprising in today's Serbia, in which social dialogue is at an extremely low level, in which few citizens know about the work of the Social-Economic Council today. These are facts, and it is the Social-Economic Council that it is and it has to be a place where this issue would be asked and where this issue would be resolved. Now, because of all this, no matter how much I agree with many of the MPs who spoke today, no matter how much she agreed with her colleague Đurić, who talked last night about the amendment of the Labour Act, and above all, I agree with him in one great danger and fear of indirect discrimination, which concerns one great concern that after the adoption of these amendments of the laws, young women will find it even harder to come to work. However, I believe that these changes and the proposal for these changes must be accepted, that we must understand them, as I have already said, as one step forward in trying to prevent discrimination that women, in this previous period, have, not disputed, been exposed to. Amendments to the Law relating to the inability to stop the working relationship between pregnant women and maternity women give the woman safety, at least during that period, during which pregnancy, during which maternity and child care takes place. It is precisely when we conclude this that we are also coming to that crucial moment, which we still have to talk about today in this House, but also in the future we are constantly talking about, which is the economic security and independence of the woman. When we speak and mention it then we return to the state and we must constantly warn the state that it has an obligation to open jobs, normally not only for women, but for Serbian citizens, to educate young people for the jobs needed by the market, to establish systems and institutions of the system that function, in which we all feel much safer and more comfortable, because we are employed, because we have solid profits and we have the opportunity to find another when we lose one job. That's what the basics are, I know this isn't easy to accomplish, and I know it's gonna be a long time before we get to this, but this discussion of mine has gone in the direction and in the desire to appeal that we have to go this way. When we build this kind of economic Serbia, then we'll have a lot of minor problems of this kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14318	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branislav Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14319	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act is contained in Article 7(8). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. According to this member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is, among other things, a commitment and provision of the system in the field of working relations, labour protection, employment, other economic and social relations and is based on Article 66(1) and (2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the mother in the Republic of Serbia enjoys special protection and special support and protection before and after birth. Amendments and additions to the applicable law are proposed for the purpose of protecting mothers before and after childbirth, in order to achieve the necessary civilization standard on the protection of motherhood and to adapt our labour legislation to the international one. The reason for amending and supplementing the laws is also a systemic reaction to the response of citizens addressed to the National Assembly in which maternity protection is sought, as well as to prevent abuse by employers who, when employed, discriminate against women, in terms of their attainment through the roles of mothers or release them directly after childbirth. The problem of birth must become a priority national issue. It is high time for Serbia to leave the leading place to the oldest population and to remember the period from the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century when we had the youngest population in Europe with an average of 19 and a half years. We had a gold dinar as an indicator of the economic power of society. In the middle of the last century, the population of Serbia belonged to younger populations in Europe, and today it is a group of demographically old populations and not only in the European population but also in the world contexts. Serbia today faces serious demographic problems of ageing the population, which is becoming increasingly obvious and economically and social problem. For the first time in history, our country has more inhabitants than 65 years of age, than children under 15. Every year, the city disappears, such as Gourmet or Ivanica. Experts argue that if this trend of negative rates of natural growth continues until 2030 we will have 700,000 inhabitants less than now and there will be about 6.8 million of us. This dramatic data only upset the demographics of the professional public. The root measures for the mitigation of incentives were not taken, i.e. It has not been systematically affected by the causes of the problem, which is, in all likelihood, multiplied and multiplied by many economic and social problems. In order for us as a society to go into revitalization, we must first protect our foundations, our mother, born and still unborn children. This can also be done in this way by amending and supplementing the Labour Act. The ageing population goes hand in hand with a high rate of economic dependence on a negative economic balance. A group of countries with accelerated ageing and high economic dependence include Spain, Italy, Greece, Portugal. As we can see, these are countries where the economic crisis is escalating, which are in economic problems and in constant political instability. Article 1 The draft law is complemented by a part of the Labour Act governing maternity protection in accordance with the provisions of the International Labour Organisation Convention, which prescribes that women should be provided with more daily breaks or to a 90-minute reduction in working time so that they can breast-feed their child and that breaks and cuts are paid as regular working hours. This also applies to the case where a woman employed voluntarily interrupts maternity leave. Article 2 provides general protection against the termination of work contracts during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave for the care of the child or special care of the child to work during pregnancy or maternity leave. With this change, the employer will not be damaged because the payment of earnings during maternity leave, leave for work, care or special care is carried out by the child on the burden of the budget from the position of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. The employer is required to make payment only for the first month, with this amount being refunded. The employer's obligation is also limited to the expiry of the right to leave. In the amendments and additions to the law, to maternity care, as well as to parents who use leave or care or special care of a child, there can be no interruption of employment, and that those to whom the contract expires during that period will have legal protection. This means that their contract will have to be extended by law enforcement as long as the maternity, pregnancy, or absence is due to the care of the child or special care of the child. It is a public secret that many pregnant women and pregnant women in Serbia are fired precisely because they have decided to become mothers, although the current Labour Act predicts that they cannot be fired during the period. Practice is quite different, and it is necessary by law to specify both in which cases and under what conditions employers are allowed to fire a pregnant woman or a child. The families that have established a working relationship for a certain period of time shall be extended to the expiry of the right of absence. It is proposed that this law be passed by emergency procedure in order to prevent the adverse consequences of the depopulation, the negative natural growth of the population and the ageing of the population in Serbia. The protection of motherhood provided for by law means protecting women from jobs that can harm health, heavy radiation burdens, harmful vibrations of temperatures, too, are protected from night and overtime by future mothers. I propose the adoption of amendments and additions to the law, so that the confession of a Novo Sadan woman would not be a common example – I am a mother of four children. I ran out of maternity leave yesterday for two years. She had twins. By the way, this is the first time I've ever used maternity care. This company has been doing private business for nine years, and I've been reporting for five years. Yesterday at 5:00 a.m., I got a call from the director and he told me I got fired, i.e. that there was a reorganization and that my job as such no longer exists. He says he's going to meet me on vacation and that's it. I'm in shock, with the baby forum on 24.2.2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14320	Before we continue to work, allow me to welcome 65 young people from Bujanovac, Presevo and Vranja, who are currently following a part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14321	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members of Parliament, in the light of this law, says that the law is adopted by an urgent procedure to stop the harmful consequences of the depopulation, the fall of birth and living standards. Certainly, these are some goals that we all need to advocate, on which we should all work together, but through a comprehensive reform of both labour legislation and health care systems, and at all other laws concerning maternity and pregnant women, in any case and personally I believe that if we do not do so, that Serbia will remain empty, we will not have children, we will not have anyone to write these laws, nor will there be anyone to apply them. The prime minister also spoke about these things in his exposé, when the government was formed and he just said that Serbia's biggest problem is the demographic issue, and I will now quote: "The government of Serbia will most urgently come up with concrete measures to stop Serbia's biological disappearance." However, it is my opinion, to call it this, that these cosmetic changes will not lead to the achievement of the objectives that I have set, which are in line with this law and also to address the problem of a negative natural origin in Serbia. In fact, we've heard a lot about problems today, and I might say a little bit about possible solutions, of course, that both Article 1 and Article 2 of this law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act will bring some groups and families and pregnant women something good. We don't object, of course, but we feel that this should have been more comprehensive, so why don't these women stay, pregnant women don't stay for a whole year on maternity leave or, if necessary and necessary, maybe extend maternity leave for another six months, sort of define it in law. Of course, I said, adapt the health care system to maternity care and the possibility that they have access to health care at all times that they don't have to take a day off from work so they might have to give up their child, but that they can do it in the afternoon. I think it's a big problem because these women want to reduce their maternity leave, except that employers may require them to do so and also that 65% of the benefits for pregnant women, if some women have to keep their pregnancy, and then when they get maternity leave, then that compensation is also 100%, but the average is compared to the period when they received 65%, so they're getting reduced earnings, so it's not at the level that they would receive otherwise. I believe this financial moment is actually the most significant in this whole process. We have a colleague who comes from Nis, does she have an hour-and-a-half bill to leave and come back, to double her child? I believe not, but we don't have to talk about Nis, we can talk about Višnička Banja, whether any of the colleagues or persons employed in New Belgrade can reach Višnička Banja in an hour and a half and come back. I believe that this extension of the working relationship for all those women who are on maternity or maternity leave will certainly bring improvement, they won't have to worry until that moment, until their absence of someone, such a source of income, is over, but I do believe that, I do know that, after that contract of work has expired, these women will definitely get fired, which is a big problem. Our common goal here in Parliament and government should be to provide safety to mothers, to provide safety to their families, and to reward those mothers for giving birth, not to punish them in some way. We need that group of our own, mother, so we need pregnant women to raise and put ahead of others, certainly to give them some better and greater rights, because they are filling this Serbia of ours. I suggest, for example, that someone who's having another child, and that's become a deficit today, gets a permanent job out there in those places where he's employed, to ban being fired, for example. women who have given birth to each child in the next two, three years since they were born, to ensure a permanent salary for each woman who gave birth to the third, fourth and remaining children until the age of 18 of that child's life. That would be, for example. was the solutions that we should incorporate in the Labour Act, when it comes to pregnant women. I believe that young, healthy, married girls grab their heads when they get pregnant today. We come to such a problem that when they first come to the employer to get a job, they have a condition there, so they ask them, would you in the next 10 years to get pregnant? Those poor people have to say, probably not; and if they get pregnant, they get fired because before that, they have to sign a certain contract that they won't get pregnant during that period, which is really one big problem. Then, when these women are born, we come into a situation so that they can be left without that maternity leave fee, because it goes through the employer. It might be better to receive a parenting supplement through the state, or through local self-government, means through these state authorities, without going through the employer, because the employer takes it for himself, exercises that right, and gives women nothing. The poor ones, if they're busy with a private, can't even say they wouldn't be out of a job. Then we come up with administrative procedures that max them out, because 86 different papers have to be filed to make those fees happen. According to the analyses of certain professional services, it is possible to file six papers only, it is submitted by both maternity and pregnant women and employers, of course there is a problem, i.e. they do not simply want to get involved in all these administrative procedures. We should, of course, pay particular attention to pregnant women and maternity mothers, I repeat, to raise above others, to take care of unemployed women, since they are also increasing ethnicity in Serbia and we really need to see how and how and how and how they are helped, give a certain incentive. Today we have, my colleagues also talked about it, child support for those who are socially endangered, we have a parental supplement that is treated only to the fourth child, nothing fifth child. I think that's the problem, too, and it needs to be changed. We in Zlatibor County have accessories as well as in other municipalities, parental supplements that amount from municipality to municipality different. In the Tchaitina municipality, for example, 20,000 is for the first, 25,000 for the second, 30,000 for the third, for the fourth and all other children, thank God, but the tao is the same negative natural growth. 103 children were born, and 163 people died, which is the problem again, although some richer environment, very few children are born. I think our goal should be to give these women not only basic conditions, but to give them what is more, to give them the opportunity to be happy, satisfied and privileged when they are born. They should be privileged because we have a negative natural growth. So we really need to raise them above the others. We had a case a few years ago, yes, for example. women entrepreneurs and foster parents were taxed twice. I think it's a big problem, it's lifted, it's not controversial, but as long as we don't have a consistent system, help and support for pregnant women and maternity parents, we can have a problem. Young people today are becoming less and less determined to start their own business. When they know something can happen, then for a year and a half or two, so it can change, it's certainly a shame. They are now even less determined and afraid because there is no system and consistency in our care of maternity, pregnant, or babies. The state, for example, gives orders to pay off, I don't know, jubilee rewards for employees in education or, I don't know, cultural institutions, and they don't give them money for it. Then why wouldn't the state order these 35 percent of the child-bearing income to be paid to the same local self-government. I mean, we're empty, but we'll be empty in Serbia if we don't do something like that. I think we need to change our minds. It's just that there's a big gap in equality between women and men, so to speak, no matter what I do now, it's been 50 years since the establishment of equality between men and women's wages. We still have that pay gap today. For example, 7.5% is in the public sector and 11% is in the private sector. Also, we come to the situation that these women are not discriminated against in the same jobs, but simply because of family care, children, they come into a situation that they can't go on official trips, by using these journals, by working overtime, by income from there, or by earning a living on the basis of work on weekends, etc. Also, statistics in the publication "Born Barometer" define that e.g. 70% of men rarely or never cook, 65% don't cook the house, 78% don't iron, 80% say that in the event of some problems they could count on their partner's support. Imagine, 25% of men just think that politics would be better for women to decide and 57% of women, which I think is a big problem. I would agree with Nebojsa Stefanovic, if the coup was a coup against the country, but we have to deal with this whole problem, we have to work on it. Realising the rights of the child is not a matter of goodwill and humanity and charity, but of society and state obligations. I think it's high time that after nine months of government work we saw what the government has done to us, what the government has brought on the world of population policy measures, to have more newborns. The more children we have after nine months of government work, because they are empty tills for us, but I repeat once again there will be empty Serbia, we will only be left with Belgrade's pasture and the Užička Republic if we continue like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14322	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14323	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which is on the agenda today, I would like to characterise with one sentence – a small change and a big message. The very bill of law and, in general, the message announced through the reasoning of this law, our distinguished colleague, Mrs Dragas, spoke to us, confessing, insisting, with the support of the bill, on a comprehensive solution to these issues, narrowed down the space for us to talk about. I'd still like to give you a few more details. The change itself refers to two things. One supplement is about the right to leave for breastfeeding, the other is the protection of pregnant women, mothers and maternity mothers, those who have a working relationship for a certain time, insisting, enforcing that she cannot be interrupted, that she cannot stop her working relationship even though the contract of work has expired for a certain time, until the end of the rights of all she has as a pregnant woman, as a mother of maternity and the right to care and special care of the child. What's also characteristic, another provision that's some kind of extra protection, that if it isn't, acts are considered void, which I think is good, and I think it should be in the Labour Act in a lot of places to show up that protection. When the problem of working for a certain time, just for a very short time, it is one general problem, not only when it comes to pregnant mothers, they are most affected by the problem, but usually by the problem in the law, primarily because of the great abuses in this regard, because we have work, not how the controversy is whether for a year or three years, but we have ten years, for years, etc. When it comes to pregnant women, there have been many examples here, that I don't hold back on it, that we're almost in a situation, and it's not like we're looking at pregnancy as a sin, as a problem, not something nice, noble or simply because of that "sin and trouble" threatens her to lose her job or not to get it. These are all the reasons that were otherwise said to be supported in this bill. I want to refer to the message, the message is even more important to me, the message is from the presentation of the promoter, the president of the National Assembly is precisely hinting, he has repeated the word "first step, start, etc." It is indicated that we are ready to face the problem as a state and demonstrates our clear intention to engage in an organized and comprehensive way in solving all problems of demographic policy, of course and especially motherhood, as well as labour and labour issues. If so, ours is full of support. I'll be short on one and the other, motherhood and working relationship. When it comes to motherhood, I have to point out, it refers to two categories, one is pregnant, the other is maternity and mother. All the measures that are support, the incentive of these categories, the SPS will support, and yet there are three categories, an unemployed pregnant woman, a pregnant woman at work for a certain time, which is now the subject of this law in terms of protection and, of course, those that are mothers who are fostered in a working relationship. When we look at all of this, I want to point out that we are looking at it from two angles: one is material support, financial support for these categories, and the other is support in the field of working relationships. When it comes to material support, financial support, for pregnant women, is the biggest problem that regulates the Obligation Health Insurance Act, which pregnant women, when we protect them, remain at 65% and not 100%, while mothers are in the care of the child and special care of the child, they are already regulated by one other law, financial support for the family. And one law and another should be amended to this basic goal in which we spoke, to encourage and support motherhood. When it comes to supporting pregnant women, I want to say that we have a problem with ununited politics in Serbia. We have examples in this area, I've spoken many times, and now I'm going to say, Belgrade, Jagodina, we heard yesterday, and some other cities, where the cities themselves have further allocated funds to get pregnant women who are 100% pregnant. I'm aware they're not small funds. When it comes to Belgrade, only last year, it is over 800m dinars for an average of 3,420 per month, but Belgrade has also provided assistance to the unemployed, with more than 245m funds to do so, covering 4,914, providing a one-time aid of 50,000. Emphasizing this positive example, I want to point out that this must be a single policy in Serbia, that all pregnant women in Serbia feel equal. I welcome the amendment of the Health Insurance Act that will allow it. The second thing I'm trying to say is, it's a work relationship area. What we now have in Serbia, as short as possible, telegraphically – an inadequate solution to workers' rights from working relationships, violations of acquired labour rights, the black labour market, avoidance of obligations towards the state and workers, the antagonism of employers and trade unions and a major gap between them. We have one situation where employers always bomb us that these rights have to be violated because it opens up a space for hiring new ones, that it has to be in conditions of crisis, etc. I think that's where the state has to put the dot and say, stop, it can't anymore. And it's not true that reducing workers' rights is a solution to the crisis. Besides, a reduction of labour rights can't be a solution to the area at all. In 2001, the Labour Act, which completely moved the slaughterhouse towards employers, forced employers, brought profit first. Here, after so many years, we see that the economy is not strengthened, the unemployed are even more, etc. It is not true, therefore, that workers' rights interfere with the development of the economy and higher profits to the employer, etc., etc. I want to say that by facing this problem, Serbia has to face another one, and at this point it even has to do with this law. I think it is necessary to face one word that has become devastating in Serbia, which is – the cost. Everything from the point of view of profit has become an expense. And so the worker is no longer a man but a expense. Our pregnant woman is also not a man, but a expense. And when we look at it like that, we always find reasons why it can't and shouldn't be cost-effective, because simply a worker is a man who works with dignity and wants to have a decent profit, to live off his work. What do we think is the solution? We think the solution is to look at the situation in the field of labour relations, fully, and to make changes to the Labour Law. I'm just warning. Since 2001, when it was first delivered, in 2005 and beyond, it has been constantly going to the heart of workers. I must express my satisfaction that in 2005, as a parliamentary group of SPS, we prevented further derrogation of these rights when the Labour Law was amended, submitting 22 amendments, most of which were adopted. But it is not for us to observe the changes of the law as to who will gain and who will lose. Because today it's characteristic that the employer insists on changing the law to get, and the worker, when he hears about changing the law, he's looking, the poor guy, what else he's going to lose. It has to stop in the state. That is why we believe and insist on the social dialogue of the social partners alone, because they are partners. It shouldn't be on anyone's account. So, only by social dialogue, evenly, in which there are no winners and defeated, which is guided on an even basis, the result of which enables, on the one hand, the flexibility of capital, and on the other hand, the necessary security of workers. So this is a dialogue that equally respects the laws of the market economy, but also protects the social interests of workers and employees. Any agreement reached by the social partners in the dialogue will fully support the Socialist Party of Serbia. It's just a quick one more question. And here the question arises, when it comes to the application of this law, will it be possible to apply it, will it be implemented and will anyone want to or will they not? I've listed a lot of violations of the law. I just want to finish my discussion with the next one. We are against the violation of the legal rules that regulate labour rights or narrowing those rights, becoming what has become, something normal in Serbia. That can't be normal. It's something that's unacceptable and not acceptable. The fact that it is often explained that under the conditions of the economic crisis it is an unsatisfactory condition for economic progress, etc. That's not true. That's what it turned out to be, and we're against it. Nor will the "right" to violate employees' rights encourage and strengthen investors' interest in investing, nor the principles of the market economy imply employers' rights to deny the law of guaranteed labour rights and labour. I would like to conclude this presentation with another mention that we will give full support to this bill and insist on comprehensive solutions in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14324	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14325	Ladies and gentlemen, a picture of the context in which these amendments and additions to the Labour Act are proposed and which will certainly be adopted, I will begin with a brief comment on the free quote of the motions for these amendments and the addition of Mr. Nebojja Stefanovic's bill, which yesterday said he would like to see 50% of the women in parliament. It's a commentary for me to immediately retaliate that it's very easy to achieve. With the same authority that introduced this law, it introduces the authority of the President of the Assembly to amend and supplement the Law on the selection of MPs, where it says to add a position to the member who defines the lists: "On the list of neighbouring candidates there must be a different gender". It doesn't cost money. If he's willing, we can do it as soon as possible, even by an emergency procedure. I take this comment as an illustration for the context I'm talking about... I hear there's a mockery on the proposal to introduce an amendment that changes. If you really want to make a change, then you have to make up your mind – either you make fun of the changes or we'll make changes. If someone says that they would like 50% of the women in parliament, I return that the mechanism is available, simple, easy and will have the support of probably a half-dominated majority, without doubting both the good intentions and the honesty of the speaker of the assembly. He has proved to support various ideas for changes in this parliament, that he really takes seriously what he says as a public word. For all others who mock the idea of a woman being 50%, I can answer the question - are you also mocking when you talk about women who are pregnant and who give birth to children, or is hypocrisy to women reserved only for political representativeness? It is a subject which is very grateful for a good debate between us in this institution and otherwise in society. Why did this comment begin a picture of my context in which the promoter, with absolutely best intentions, gave a bill amending the provisions of the Labour Law? Because there are two wills to change. One will for change carries the will itself, the other brings the money. I will talk through these two members, and about the money for change and the will to change, in an attempt to paint through this context as much as in our words, in our public attitudes, and then in our rules of discrimination and hypocrisy, when it comes to birth and when it comes to working women. This law is actually about a working woman. It's just that for a woman who is employed, it's a job or the birth of a child. It's just that for a woman in employment, it's a problem, to reconcile her will to be economically independent, no matter how much money she earns and the will to become a mother. It's just that the subject is a woman of employment, because only a woman of employment has this dilemma. A man of employment, unfortunately, has no dilemma. I wish I'd listened a lot more to the discussion here that would be about how we can help, that as a father as a parent of a child, he's involved in solving the dilemma that every woman in employment has. I know that in the provisions proposed by Mr Stefanovic, it is exclusively about the status of a woman who is employed, and about protecting her rights if she works for a certain time, or her right to make a choice. But if we don't want to be hypocritical, then the central theme, from my point of view, is that the context of this law is that an employed woman has a choice. A man of employment doesn't have that kind of dilemma and he doesn't have that choice. I'm going to give you a brief proof of how much dimension there is in our society. In one of the first days in this assembly in 2001, one of the first journalists who are several of us women who were then members of parliament wanted to ask a question, he asked - how do you coordinate your family and business obligations? I answered the question, which is not polite, but sometimes it takes a technique to make it easier for people to bring reality, asking -- are you asking our male colleagues how they coordinate their family and business obligations? What the journalist looked at me, really startled, and said -- so they don't have family obligations. How on earth don't they have family obligations? All of us who have families must have family obligations. This attitude that if you're a woman who I repeat by the gift of that sex, by the gift of that sex, she can stay in a different state, she can carry a child and she can give birth to it, and she can accomplish that process with her own body, that this woman has a dilemma -- am I going to get a job, am I going to be able to get a job, am I going to have a career, or am I going to exercise my right to have a child? We are not the only society that in such a discriminatory way and very often hypocritical, raising in words in the heavens the role of mother and right and choice to give birth to children, and essentially having daily discriminatory techniques towards women. We have heard a lot of different data from colleagues Dubravka Filipovski and Vesna Milekić, and Milice Vojić Marković, and colleagues Ljiljana Lučić, all kinds of data about what all women go through if they want to work, and if they want to give birth. So we're not the only ones or special. I'll remind you that by 1975 in West Germany, a law that required a husband to sign consent to hire a woman, that by the 1970s in Australia, every single mother had been taken by force by a child. Recently, the Prime Minister of Australia apologized to tens of thousands of children abducted by their mothers because the social rule was that this child should not be with one parent. It's a context where I look at these two members. As wide as it may seem to you, believe me, actually, when it comes to the will to change, in my words it's a lot narrower than you could talk about the answer to the question – how do I work as a working woman, because I want to have a salary, I want to have a career, and I want to have a career, because I want to have children, because I want to have a family that includes my obligations? It's the role of society and the role of the state, if society and the state really want not to be hypocritical and that not all of us in the state just listen to what any of us in the country is telling us, but to watch what the state is doing. Now I'm going to talk about the will for the money. How much is all this gonna cost and who's gonna pay for it, where's he gonna get the money, if there's any where? It's best to understand how much money it takes for something when we compare some things we know that cost and then we get awareness of how much money it's going to be necessary for a really busy woman to have at least one concern from the dilemma she has, to give birth or to work, to fire me or to give birth, not to give birth, to just do business. I'll compare that with the amounts we've heard here from my colleague Ljiljana Lucic, about the total amounts that stand out, which are about 25 billion dinars from the Serbian budget or about 250m euros, if I count correctly. What am I gonna compare that to? I'll compare it with the skill we're hearing these days, about every Fiat 500l being a three thousand-euro subsidy. That's what you're going to say aren't comparable things. I'm not comparing it like you're taking these and giving these to these. It's two good things for me. Subsidies or investments in the development of the economy in any part of Serbia and the separation from the budget for an employed woman who wants to work, which our common money needs to be provided with at least some security. If we listen to Cesar Ferrari from Fiat, who said that from July of last year until today, 43,000 pieces of vehicle were produced and exported and if we listen to his words that there will be a total of 120-180, let's just make a rough assessment, let's make 10,000 a month, and if that 10,000 a month even though there were 6 thousand so far, if five thousand are for the domestic market, with a subsidy of three thousand euros, count for yourself. That's 15m euros, on an annual basis count yourself. The total amount that we all give in the budget so that an employed woman has one less worry – whether I work or give birth is less than the amount we will give for subsidies. Both things are good, but it's a matter of political will to determine how much money there is for what? I do not advocate to take away one, nor do I advocate to take away another. I think it's a good idea that by looking at the budget, we know exactly how much money we're talking about, on an annual or monthly basis, for all the needs that employees of women who want to have and to give birth to. The care of the state and society is seen through money and that is the will for money that will be allocated by our joint decision through social protection, through support within the local community of every mother who decides to hire and who decides to give birth to a child. If you have institutions for children who don't receive children before the 11th month, then you need to know that the mother who is employed, who has decided to give birth, must have some support, if she wants to work until that child's eleventh month. It is hypocritical and it is untrue that such a kind of budget detachment threatens investment, or threatens, or is forcing investors, or is causing damage to the country's overall economic situation. I know that in the coming years there will be quite a number, at first sight, of the very argumentable texts that we will be forced to discuss to reduce these rights which the legislator wants to guarantee that a woman cannot be fired, that no work contract can be terminated and that she has the right to choose. When you give a woman the right to choose the law, then that right to choose must have a context in which it can be realized. If she wants to come back early, there must be a context that is guaranteed by her coming back early, how it is to harm her if she gets back to work early. In my opinion, with the remarks made by Ljilja Lučić, the greatest shortfall in this bill and our general discussion is that we sit here and exchange information about how the law is not applied. I've heard that since I've been sitting in the Assembly and having a lot of heated debates, I've had unpleasant dialogues with various executives, whether I supported them in two terms when we were part of the ruling majority or I was an opposition in two terms when we were opposition. You know, our constitution says that we control and monitor the government. It's hypocritical that any of us here have a list of sentences that complains that labour inspections aren't doing their job. It is hypocritical that any of us speak of women being discriminated against and working on black because there is no way to punish anyone who violates the law because we passed the laws, no matter who they were. We didn't have any more disputes about it. Discrimination of the Employment Act is prohibited, it is prohibited by anti-discrimination law. You have great provisions in the Labour Act, regardless of the context in which it was brought in 2005, which may be a special topic, but it is irrelevant for this debate. So, the next time in three months or six months this law is in place, I ask you to invest so much self-control that none of us say – here's the damage, yet there was a cancellation of the labor contract, here's the damage, we still haven't been able to protect pregnant women. In translation, that means 250 of us don't do our job. I know exactly how uncomfortable it is to face the minister you support, the Prime Minister, the president of the state. I know exactly how uncomfortable it is to face a second or third line of those who are around ministers or other places in executive power. I know exactly how much you need integrity to do something like that, but without it, there is no function of this congregation, without control or control. The biggest paradox is that if we don't do it and we're the ruling majority and we're the opposition, we all suffer damage together. The form in which we will force those in charge of applying the law, proposed by Nebojsa Stefanovic, is the topic of our agreement. He may have different forms, but our decision is the will to change. Our decision to really force them to apply it is that will for change, which I spoke of in my first comment, if we want 50% of women, 50% of men in parliament, that one amendment, one attitude can if desired. If we don't decide now, we'll decide in a year, but we'll lose time. If we don't decide in a year, we'll decide in four years and we'll lose even more time. We are terribly skilled at wasting time and using hypocrisy to say that – well, it's a great law, but it's not applied, not to mention the moment when this Assembly was humiliated by employees in the tax administration twice, because it can be, in the tax administration,. to interpret how the proposal, or regulation, will be interpreted when it comes to the undertaking, so it goes to maternity care, or childcare. My wish is just enough to enter a picture of the context in which these changes and additions are proposed. Just as critical and, certainly, in the same amount of good intentions as the proposer of these two members. No matter how much it costs in Serbia, I am sure that, at least I will, and I think that my colleagues from the DS Parliament Club and, as Mrs Ljiljana Lucic said, we will, of course, vote for this law. This does not prevent us from ultimately making a request to the Proposer, although he is no more responsible for the application of this law than any of us. Please make it quite clear, when you put your finger on the green, you share responsibility with everyone who puts a finger on the green, just as if an ethical dilemma makes you say "no" or "red." My request, which I think is in the best interest of all of us, is that this law, which is precedentd by many things, is proposed by the President of the Assembly by his authority, because the law that is in force is not well enough and we have recorded problems with many women who want to be employed and want to give birth, and that one of those laws, rarely, has been, for whom we will all vote -- for. My personal request is, let it be a law that we'll really start to control, to monitor how the law applies. Form - I leave the ruling majority to offer and to determine. But let it be a law to cross a line where, when we support the ruling majority, we say -- well, we see that it's no good what they're doing, but ours, don't, it looks very ugly in reality. Let it be a line that, as an opposition, we will move to the side that only together, with the ruling majority, we can really control and monitor whether any law is applied. How important is that? As full of mouths as we all are of missing children in Serbia. How important is that? As much as we're all willing to talk about women's equality and to turn our heads when we see that a woman is discriminated against in a place where she works or anywhere. How important it is to us, we will see by the reactions of people in our cities, in our local communities that will see change. He'll see if he's an employer, whether he's in the public or in the private sector, who everyone around here knows he's breaking the law, that he discriminates against a woman, whether he's being punished, whether he's registered, or whether he's ours, so don't touch him. He can't do both. He can't. He's ours, so don't touch him. He can't. We want an employee to have a guarantee that she can't be fired and that she has the freedom to decide whether to give birth at the same time as her employment, her economic independence. My request is directly to the promoter, regardless of which he is neither responsible nor likely to have responsibility, but he has power, the position of Parliament's president is still power. What I'd like to pray for with that request, to finally deliver the right numbers to the Assembly and see how many single parents there are, how many single mothers there are. You can't see that. No statistic can see that. Let's see how many mothers or young women who work on black and who wipe out their rights, see statistics and not just stand on a figure of about 75,000 children born annually in Serbia. That's 75,000 mothers. I'm exempt from that beautiful mistake, which is the number of mothers who have given birth to twins, three or more children, but 75,000 children are born annually for years on average in Serbia. Half of those children are mostly born of mothers who are employed. I'll get you back to the numbers we're giving you for the subsidy. For 500 els. It's a maximum of 35,000 thousand women who want to work and give birth to children. When we really have those who are in charge of implementing this law and who supply us with such data, and when we really understand that our constitutional role and the role of the law of the National Assembly is to control whether we apply it, it will be the only way to remove all the doubts raised by Ljiljana Lučić and various other and fellow Members of Milica Vojić Markovic and others, which concern the real good effect of these two members of the law. I have no doubt that if there is a will to change that kind in the work of this congregation, we will not need money for that change to be found, because we don't need that money. We just need the will to really do what we say in this assembly, and it concerns the right of an employee woman who wants to have a baby and who has the right to choose to tell her - we guarantee your right to choose, and I guarantee you some rights if you decide to be employed and have children. It's your woman's human right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14326	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14327	Thank you to colleagues who have so far talked about the amendment and the addition of the law. The very fact that most or almost all MP groups are announcing that they will vote for the law says that the law is basically good. I guess no one would vote for bad law. I am pleased that it has been accepted that there is awareness in this House that the change in the position of women, especially women of mothers, pregnant women and maternity women, is much more important than party paint. There's been criticism of a different species here. One of them is that I haven't consulted the Social-Economic Council of the Government. I didn't. The right to tell you at all does not feel the duty to consult the Social-Economic Council of the Government. I sent this to the government. At the session, the government decided to accept this bill, and otherwise I think the National Assembly must start acting as a National Assembly. Each of you is a Messenger of the people who decides what is done in this land. We are voting for the law to decide which direction it is working, and I therefore believe that the National Assembly as a body that must play a first-rate role in this country must also take responsibility for what it does. The consultations, of course, but if she gives me mothers, pregnant women and maternity care is an important thing, and we believe, then no one can stop us. I am prepared to vote alone, to be completely alone and the only man in parliament who will vote for such a thing and no one will turn me away from it. Luckily, it won't be for this law, but I'm ready for that, too, and I won't let anyone turn me from that direction. Any arguments in the event that we're improving the right of mothers, pregnant and maternity I don't think they're justified at this point, and anything else we can fix, people fix. There are colleagues in this congregation who have been in power for many years and have not done so, have not suggested that the protection of mothers, pregnant women and maternity families, have not proposed to change the Labour Act, have not brought about comprehensive changes, essential, huge. They didn't do it. They obediently raised their hands. They have not even proposed laws that have not passed, and that is their right, but citizens will judge and appreciate whether as MPs, government and opposition, we have the right to oppose those from our ranks today in the executive power and may not think as we do and we will appreciate the strength of this Parliament. I honestly think we're working on budget rebalancing because of this law, that it's worth it, that it's important, because we need to send a signal that our children are more important to us than anything else and that's the thing that I think there's a consensus in this House, which is why I'm proud to be President of Parliament right now. I want to ask you all to keep working on it. I used to propose this law as a member of the SNS, but so could anyone else. 250 of us have the right to be legislators. We have a right to talk about it. Will there be a new Labour Act in the next month or two? I can't answer as a representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs right now. I think so. We need to sit on the agenda with these people, discuss what else can be applied, be useful, and what we can fix in the position of working people, and also further protect women and mothers. Are they overprotected? Ask those women who stay on the street because they use holes in the current law. Ask those women who lose their job with nine-month-old pregnancy, those women who stay on the street with two little babies because they're out of work. Ask them if they're too protected and how they feel today. I don't think they're protected enough by these changes either, but this is the first step and I'm gonna stand firm on that idea. Every time it's supposed to work on it, I'm willing to be a part of anyone's team, I don't care what color or party it is, to work together and make new things. I am proud to chair the Committee on the Rights of the Child in which decisions are made unanimously because this committee is about the quality of the fight for a better life of a child. There's no party colors. I also think it is important that we sent Serbia a message that when it comes to the rights of mothers, pregnant women and maternity women, their children, here we can all vote together, not because the proposal was submitted by Nebojsa Stefanovic, but because the matter in this proposal is such that it deserves your support, which I am truly grateful to you for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14328	National MP Jelena Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14329	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, since this is my first address to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to introduce myself first. My name is Jelena Mijatovic. I am an MP for the SNS and mother of two and a half-year-old Bogdan and five-month-old Angelina. I point out this because I would like to today not only as an MP but also as a mother to support the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act, which concern improving the position of employees of pregnant women, mothers and parents. Today, I will not present any statistical data, nor will I follow the position of women through history, I will simply express my vision of women's problems and discrimination. I think this bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Act is a major step in curbing discrimination against women, a major shift in the resolution of the problem of birth and depopulation, and I think that after the adoption of this law, many women in Serbia will be more easily resolved to motherhood. I don't know who he is or when he made a division into a weaker and stronger sex. I don't see the meaning or the meaning of this syntagma. I don't see the point of dividing into men and women's jobs because today, in everyday life, we can see women who do so. men's jobs are just as good as men, and I don't think nature would allow a weaker sex to happen, to have the opportunity to bring out a new life. This weakness is reflected in the fact that we have just been brought to these claims, which for years and decades, back and forth, have been proclaimed that women are weaker sexes, and we have begun to believe it ourselves. Today, we have a problem with pregnant women, mothers and maternity workers, a problem of discrimination against women. So today the employer views pregnancy as a special condition in the sense that the woman is incapacitated. The woman is not incapacitated. Pregnancy is not a disease. Pregnancy is a natural condition that is unique to a woman and should be accepted and observed as such. We need to adjust certain working conditions and I don't think it's a problem and it's very easy to do. I was lucky that my pregnancy was gone without any health complications, so I worked for nine months. Today I'm at work five months after birth. At any moment I had full support in my employer, then the SNS, today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the understanding by all my colleagues who let me speak before them today, so that I could also do maternal duties, because I am in addition to being a foster mother and nurse and I proudly declare it. I would like every family in Serbia to feel this security that I feel and I think that this law, which we are talking about today, will actually bring about that security. Those women who want to shorten their maternity leave, or start working early, I don't see why that would be a problem. They need to be helped to make some conditions for work concrete, so, for example, The provision of Article 93a, whose adoption and proposed, where it is also prescribed that the employer is obliged to provide the working woman who returns to work before the end of the year from the birth of the child with the right to one, or several-day breaks during daily work, for a total duration of 90 minutes, or for a reduction in working time of 90 minutes, so that she can breast-feed her child if the working time of the working woman is six or more hours. So if I, as a foster parent, want to get back to work early, I don't see why that would be a problem? This is one of the reliefs that my employer gives me that I can cut my hours short and that I can come out and use those breaks to give my child away. In the case of women who, due to some different health problems that occur during pregnancy, or those who simply want to take advantage of their entire maternity leave, are all well arranged and prescribed in Article 187(2), where it stands clearly – the employee of Article 1 of this Article, the period for which the contract established a working relationship for a certain period of time, is extended to the expiry of the right of absence. I think it's the right of a woman to decide whether to use her maternity leave and whether to return early. Also, I believe this will really speed up, that it will give women the opportunity to decide easier on motherhood. And I'd add that mothers, pregnant women, maternity parents, women at all, we're not looking for any pity, we're not asking for anyone to make us feel sorry for each other. We simply ask that our condition be understood and our condition respected. We have just received this understanding and respect from Mr. Nebojja Stefanovic. I thank you on this occasion on my personal behalf and on behalf of the mothers I know. I believe this initiative will be an incentive for all other social factors to follow your example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14330	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14331	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Stefanovic, one of the most common issues that are being heard today in Serbia is the question of how to get a job, but on the other hand, and how to save a job for all those who were fortunate to get that job? If it's any consolation, it's not just a question that's heard in Serbia, and some richer, developed countries are asking these questions today, but it's very difficult to come to an answer, and what is particularly a debate and today's topic, it's even more difficult for members of the women's population in our country to answer. I am sure that no one today in this hall, nor outside this hall in all of Serbia, has a problem with realizing the perilousness of reduced birth, how much the destruction of the growing number of children born, and we are witnessing that today, even in the larger, urban continents, we are not talking about those smaller municipalities, villages and border areas of our country, we are becoming increasingly unoccupied. I come from Užica, a city that according to statistics belongs to the first category of developed municipalities and cities. However, in the town of Uzic too, there is a trend in the growing number of newborn children, thus reducing the number of children enrolled in school. A logical question arises – does the state of Serbia pay enough attention and care to motherhood in Serbia? We can look at this whole problem with two aspects. One aspect is legal and to ask whether legislation is good enough in Serbia today and whether it is sufficient to care and protect mothers, and on the other hand, the aspect of real life, what is the situation in real reality? It would be best if these two aspects were consistent and we had good laws and all these laws were consistently implemented in everyday life. As for legislation, it has already been mentioned many times today that it starts with our largest, most important state act of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paying attention to mothers, women before and after childbirth. Then, since 2010, this assembly has adopted a declaration under regular number 153, which takes care of motherhood, as well as the Labour Act, which we are talking about changes and additions to today, in one significant part of it is concerned and supported by motherhood in Serbia. As for the Labour Act, it begins with Article 12, which guarantees special protection for women employed during pregnancy and childbirth, as well as guaranteeing the right to special care for children. Article 14 also prohibits any kind of discrimination in employment, taking into account both race and skin color and age and health status, disability, nationality, religion, political confidence, property status, but taking into account both pregnancy and marital status. In the Labour Act itself, the special chapter, a special area, provides for the protection of motherhood, where ways to protect motherhood in certain situations are envisaged. That certainly is one aspect, and the other aspect that is the aspect of real life is a little more cruel. Thirty - year - old SR smiled luck when she found out she was going to be a mother, but the joy soon replaced the problems when her employer learned that his worker was going to be pregnant. That's why, according to SR, he did everything in his power to get fired instead of being pregnant, the future mother. Just one of the newspapers, and not only the newspapers, but also the daily conversation with our acquaintances, we find out that our fellow citizens have similar problems. Of course, it's not good that these things happen in real life, but on the other hand, it's good that there's courage in these women to bring these problems out publicly, opposing everything they can expect in that fear that they'll never get a job, if they go public criticizing all those employers who act this way. We could say that all these cases and all the problems of women who, I would say, dare to bring into the world a new being, we can put all these problems in three categories. The first category is the women looking for a job. The second category makes up women who have a job with a contract for a certain period of time. In the third category, we can classify all those women who, as they say, are permanently employed, who have problems after returning from pregnancy leave. Women looking for employment today in Serbia, when talking about getting a job with potential employers, in addition to the usual conversation on expertise, about references, about previous professional experience, are having the part of the discussion just talking about emotional, marital status and about the intentions and plans for marriage and parenting. We rarely have, of course, what it is for every conviction, a situation where candidates are asked to sign blank notice agreements in case they get a job, stay in a different state, to be given those notices, and so they lose their jobs. Another group consists of women who are also treating today's amendments to the law, who are employed by certain, whose employers immediately after the end of that internship are sent notices and receive other persons at their place. That way, pregnant women, when they need it most, get fired. In the end, people who are employed, let me say, on their return they rarely get transferred to other jobs, because in the meantime another person got a chance to work at their workplace and thus get punished for having a child. As for the amendments and the addition of the laws, both members, I would not particularly talk about it, it is spoken of more than once today and, of course, we commend, and we will support these provisions of this law and the provision relating to giving opportunity to all mothers who, after 365 days, have returned to work, that, within one working day, if their working hours are more than six hours, they have the opportunity to devote themselves to their child within 90 minutes, but also the fact that these other members are prevented by employers from giving notice to pregnant, maternity or mother who is absent because of child care. Also, I think it is important to say that employers will not bear any financial costs and I support all those colleagues who have indicated that in these talks, besides asking employers to be socially responsible, to include them in decision-making, but on the other hand, to take advantage of all the opportunities to help employers to carry out their work as easily as possible and in a better way. It is clear that these changes will increase security and reduce the uncertainty of women who make decisions to give birth to children, and we will all agree today that this is very important to Serbia at the moment, but what I especially want to put an accent on today is that, in addition to the adoption of this legislation, it is just as important to implement this law and one serious, consistent, more aggressive work of inspection services, first I mean inspections for work, but also the work of our judiciary, means, without the serious work of inspection services and without the serious work of the judiciary, which would sanction all these negative phenomena. Of course, all this stuff we're talking about today can only remain a dead letter on paper. I would also take the opportunity to welcome all those local self-governments who, despite significant problems in functioning, have large gaps in their local budget, find the opportunity to support pregnant women, support families, and, of course, for every commendation when it does, Belgrade, which of course has quite the money in its budget, in its register and of course Kragujevac, Zaječar, Loznica and a number of other towns around Serbia, but for the first time, I will not say, on purpose, small municipalities, such as the municipality of Zitište, which has since last year been singled for each newborn child by 20,000 per month and all those municipalities that, once again I say, have significant problems in their budgets, but have nevertheless understood the seriousness of the situation and the need to help mothers and motherhood today in Serbia. At the very end, there are many problems, first financial ones, today in Serbia. There are many areas that are not sufficiently decorated today in Serbia, but I consider the area of motherhood to be the area we first have to regulate, which we must pay attention to, because it is simply a fundamental burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14332	With this parliamentary group, the United Regions of Serbia took advantage of the time at its disposal. The next declared Messenger of the people is the MP of the people, Aleksandar Pejcic, and after that, the MP of the people, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14333	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Stefanovic, the legislator of this law, at first I must conclude one fact, that of 35 speakers, when it comes to amending and supplementing this law, I must say that there are 16 men, which says that those of us who are someone's fathers, parents, spouses, we are certainly thinking of you women and we will very much support this bill. For two days now, we have been discussing the amendments and additions to this Labour Act, which is proposed by our distinguished colleague, Mr Stefanovic, who said and encouraged us to incentivise some of the laws ourselves. I must remind this high house that the DSS parliamentary group proposed 24 laws in the last term, none of them on the agenda, which means that still the privilege of those MPs who, 32, here, are correcting me, have the privilege of MPs who are in power. The idea of the legislator himself, to help the mothers and pregnant women who are employed, is a very good idea and we will all agree on this idea, we will reach a consensus that we still need to help this women's category. Namely, since there is a white plague in Serbia, as we have said, and that, looking at the last census, Serbia has 300,000 fewer inhabitants, it is one city of Nis, that our nation is one of the oldest nations in Europe by the structure of the population, the fourth in Europe, Mr Stefanovic, you may not have known, and the tenth in the world. So the state must, first of all, help young people to enter marriage communities, interfere with women to bear as much as possible, to leave generations, to give one safety to women who are employed and to understand motherhood as a gift, not as sin, and that the state will stand behind them. There have been many examples and many discriminations. The women themselves complained about many associations, inspection bodies, judges, that they were marginalized, that they were fired while they were in the pregnancy. There were examples, let's just say, that women, on their way back from pregnancy, were returning to some lower jobs, with a lower coefficient, and they couldn't feed their family. So it's about one social irresponsibility of employers. The very association of European integration, I am speaking to you, gentlemen of the Europeans, has found that 93% of women lost their jobs while they were pregnant, that the inspection authorities have not responded at all because they were, as they say, in good relations with employers, and that the courts have not responded without spot, but have made certain judgments only after six months. I have examples like that in Leskovac. I come from Leskovec, there's a factory that's open for producing Jura cables. She employs a large number of workers. But the safety of a woman there, when she goes into pregnancy, is nothing. First of all, there are fictitious unions and they don't respond to employer's resignations. The unions don't react, the state doesn't react, and I, in contact with these women, just want to pass on to you all here that we still have problems in Leskovac and I hope that, after making these changes and supplementing the law, that we will solve these problems. I expect, when the whole Labour Act is passed, that certain mechanisms of the law will be much more stringent and consistent with employers, according to those employers who do not treat pregnant women correctly and maternityly. In fact, we must, by passing such laws, also change the minds of the employer. This law foresees, as we have said, the help of women, especially pregnant women and maternity mothers, while they are on maternity leave. It also gives them one safety, relaxes them in one way, when they get back from that pregnancy, so they can use that 90-minute break to feed their children, to stay with their child, which is also a good situation. But we wanted to talk here that there are many other things that we didn't consider. Many of my colleagues talked about these examples, so I want to point out what we could do and how we could think. In fact, we could've thought about it, and when we got back from the pregnancy, the woman herself agreed with the employer to get sick, another six months away, six months with a 60% reduction in salary. We could talk about women who want to go into artificial insemination, because biologically they can't get the generation, so they can pay attention to them, to get away from some of the hard work they're doing. For these reasons, Mr Stefanovic, there should have been a public debate regarding this law. It was also necessary to include certain associations, institutions, reference institutions, which might provide certain inputs, suggestions for this law and this bill to be better quality. Also, we should have opened a social dialogue with employers, so that this law would not be a dead letter on paper and that they would continue to respect it. In order for the state to stand up to the white plague, it must surely solve certain socio-economic problems. The state needs to reform its social and health system, increase children's allowances, and especially for smaller children. I know the state is in debt right now, but the state has to reform itself. By passing one quality law, we need to help this category of women, who are truly in an invisible position. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as you know, has responded amendment to these amendments and amendments to the law. I expect, Mr Stefanovic, that you will analyse our amendments, because with the amendment we did not want to come into conflict with you, we did not want to compromise, we did not want to oppose you, but rather to set out certain legal provisions which specify changes and amendments to this law. I hope you'll accept some of our amendments as well. We must also stress here, ladies and gentlemen, that by adopting these amendments and supplementing the law we are harmonising our working legislation with the Convention on Motherhood, the International Labour Organisation - Convention 153, which this assembly voted in 2010. In the end, Mr. Stefanovic, I must say that this may be a small step towards improving pregnant women and maternity care. However, in order to change the demographic picture in Serbia, we need to take a hundred of these small steps to make Serbia more natal in the future. It is inappropriate for us to wait two years for the Labour Act to enter the congregation procedure, since many circumstances have changed in the country itself and since we have lost many jobs. In order to preserve these jobs, we must amend the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14334	Eight minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used, and seven minutes are available. Before I give my word to the MP, Djordj Milicevic, I am informing the National Assembly, in agreement with Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly will work today after 18.00 hours, since today is the last Thursday of the month, that is, the day for asking parliamentary questions to government members, and in time from 16:00 to 1900 hours. The break will be set when we complete the discussion in particular, and according to reports on the agenda point that is under way. The People's Messenger, Djordje Milicevic, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14335	Thank you. Mrs. Komic, Mr. Stefanovic, I am an indicator that on this issue and the topic we are dealing with today there is one general consensus, I would say to all relevant political actors on the political scene of Serbia, it speaks enough of both the justification and importance of the topic we are talking about today. In his presentation, Mr Petronijevic said one sentence which I will repeat: "The change is a small seemingly, but the message sent by this change and these changes is big." Of course, by supporting this legislative proposal, i.e. by supporting the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour of Members of the SPS, they want first and foremost to support the objective which is to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal, which is better protection and security for maternity and pregnant women. The fight against white plague, including the protection of maternity and pregnant women, as said in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the priorities of the state. This legislative proposal, I would like to agree with a colleague who spoke earlier, is one step forward, is one qualitative shift in resolving a significant issue, to stand in the way of discrimination against pregnant women, mothers, because there are many examples that have been in an unequal position so far. Many pregnant women and mothers, already said, are fired because they have decided to become mothers, although the current law provides that they cannot be fired during that period. The reality is, unfortunately, quite different and therefore it is very important to further specify, further regulate this extremely significant issue, so that employers cannot abuse legal regulations, but rather be aware of the responsibilities they have in this respect. This legislative proposal should right now direct employers to behave differently against women who are using pregnancy and maternity care. Women should have an equal position in society, that is, equality in society. We agree fully that it is important to create conditions for the harmonisation of family obligations, on the one hand, and on the other hand of professional obligations for women. I repeat once again, the SPS will support this legislative proposal, because we support a goal that is fully justified, but what I want to say is that by adopting this legislative proposal, we will give an answer to an extremely important issue concerning the existing Labour Act. What is necessary and what is urgent is the necessity of giving answers to all the open issues of the problems that exist, as far as the applicable Labour Act is concerned. It is the equal responsibility of all of us, all 250 MPs in the Republic Parliament. I think there's political will for it at this point, but also the consent of the social partners. That is why economic and social dialogue is important for employers and workers, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must also be respected when it comes to the principle of social justice in society. Of course, I don't mean self-government, but workers can't be deprived of those basic rights. Through the wild capitalism that has been at work, workers have been denied numerous rights, and the trade unions, unfortunately, have not found an adequate way in that period. Somehow, the economic and social dialogue was mostly missing. At this point, an answer is needed in terms of changes and additions to the Labour Act, which will protect workers' rights, but also contribute to a better business climate, a better business environment in Serbia. So to respect the rights of workers, to find solutions that will not be at their expense, but on the other hand to reconcile the interests of both employers and investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14336	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word, and then the MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14337	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us this amendment to the Law on the work of Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Right at the beginning, we can say that she deserves all the commendation. In one way, they are trying to protect both pregnant women and children, as well as one fight against the white plague that is constantly harassing Serbia. To do some analysis of this, which is why it's important to bring these changes, I just want to give some of the demographic data. The right demographic policy is certainly important for the country's survival. The number of Serbian residents is 7.120, which is about 5% less than it was in 2002. Only because of reduced natural growth did we lose 37,000 people in nine years. The average age of the population is about 42 years. Over the next 25 years, Serbia will lose 1,200 villages. In the first 15 years, we'll lose 700 villages, and for the next 10 years, another 500. So, they're gonna stay on the streets, they're gonna stay on the houses, they're gonna stay on trees and tarabs, cemeteries, some memories and memories, but people won't be. Thus, this fall in natural growth is conditioned, on the one hand, by existential problems that should certainly not be spoken of, in what a difficult economic and social situation the country is in, but also by the Western culture that offers us some other values, which destroys our family and which, in front of the pleasure of having a child, is a pleasure to take over certain things, that hedonism and comformism become the most important human relationship. It's one of the elements that is important for understanding the adoption of these changes. The other thing to talk about is that these changes are proposed by one MP, in this case by the President of the Assembly, but in any case by the MP, and we expected someone else to propose something like this. We're right to wonder here, where's the union? Where is he today and where has he been all these years? Where, after all, is the state and where are the employers? When it comes to the union, which has several thousand, its role, when it comes to the protection of workers, practically does not exist. They're waiting for something to happen, they're not doing their job. Their role is only to have one of their own personal pleasures and to find their own personal privileges, that's how they are founded, so now we have about 25,000, which is representative, which is unrepresentative. The social dialogue is in crisis. There is no dialogue between unions, employers and the state either. These are all elements that are devastating, when it comes to rights and the protection of workers, and never and probably nowhere have the rights of workers been more endangered than here in Serbia today. Even the corporate employers don't pay their wages, buy their yachts, get their money out, and the workers keep quiet and work, to protect them, there's no one to protect them. This isn't about someone trying to prevent production or stop the development of the economy, on the contrary. We want to prevent the exploitation of workers, in this case the most valuable thing we have, and these are pregnant women, and these are births. Therefore, the SNS, on the one hand, has maximum support for these changes, and on the other hand expects this new Labour Act, which will be passed by the end of this year, to be expected to launch social dialogue between trade unions, states and employers. Only together can we come up with new solutions because amending the Labour Act, normative in work must be an uninterrupted process. This cannot be brought today and is valid for the next ten years, it must be made continuously, continuously, because new times also require new solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14338	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Miletic Mihajlovic, followed by a folk MP, Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14339	The President-in-Office, Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as MP of the SPS, I find words of praise and certainly I and the entire parliamentary group, once again, to point out, we support a law like this because we certainly need such laws. They are needed by the state of Serbia, the citizens are needed if we are thinking far-reaching and strategically about our future. Of course, I agree with the findings that have been made here by many, including Mr Stefanovic himself, but also with the presentation of our representative of Mrs Mira Dragas's parliamentary group, which spoke wider about this law, that this law is actually solving a piece in the sea of problems that we have regarding this topic and these issues. Of course, it is not for underestimating such an attempt, especially since it also harmonizes our legislation with the international documents that bind us, which we have signed. However, it should be noted that the practice has shown that, despite the Constitution of guaranteed equal rights, there are a number of examples of discrimination between women, both in the field of labour and labour rights. Research in Serbia has shown that in many cases there are priorities in employment for the male part of the population. Also, research shows that higher earnings are on average for the male population, and that's for the same jobs. Women are often conditioned during their reproductive time, when they are to be born, by being able to start a working relationship, but it is not desirable to plan a family during that period. It's a very devastating result of such research, which destroys the dignity of a woman, but, I'd say, society in general. We have to deal differently with these issues, of course, and we here in the National Assembly, by thinking in that direction and by focusing all our energy and strength on how to address these issues in an adequate way. But I think we should build a more comprehensive system that solves a series of problems in what's whole. When we talk about pregnant women, births, it is inevitably touched by what this law solves and other questions in the Labour Act, but it is very close to what social givings and solutions are for pregnant women and maternity parents. That's very close. That's exactly the whole thing. So when we talk about these problems, we have to think about other laws and other solutions that need to be given one comprehensive system that solves it in one valid way. So we have a different treatment for pregnant women and maternity women in Belgrade. It is commendable that Belgrade has solved it. But in such a way, a Petrovic on the Mlava, the Frog, the Shop or I don't know any other municipalities can't solve it. There we have discrimination and a different position for women in the same country. They repeat the words of our MP, Misa Petronijevic, that we do not have a single social policy, and we need to find mechanisms for it to be unique and all to be equal. Of course, I will leave time for others to talk, since there is interest in our parliamentary group, with one conclusion that we must work together on this plan, that a woman is a very important subject in one society, and even in our society, that she is a pillar, as it is said, of family, but also wider. Secondly, all these issues have an adverse impact on the depopulation process, on the process of increasing cities, such as Belgrade, this is said to be Belgrade, but in general, this is certainly going against what is one perspective of a serious state, and our goal should be a serious state in which there is prosperity and guaranteed existence not the same way for all, and of course for women. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14340	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Teodora Vlahovic, followed by a national MP, Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14341	Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Proposer, the honourable fellow Members of the People, I must express my satisfaction that we have the opportunity to discuss at this level an extremely important issue, the issue of the position of an employed woman, motherhood and at the same time parenting. It's a great pleasure. I would also like to express my satisfaction that one of the laws proposed by a MP with such speed has entered the procedure and managed to secure the government's opinion, with the fact that in this case I can't separate that the proposer is also the president of the National Assembly, so my satisfaction, and probably most of the MPs and those who follow the work of the National Assembly, would be even greater if other proposals by MPs with the same speed, would come to the agenda and be given the opinion of the Government. I would like to point out this in particular, given that we have laws that even in the same text have been proposed by several different parliamentary groups, even in December of the month, and to this day the government's opinion has not reached them. It seems that many parts have come to light, since this was supposed to be an emergency procedure, and even in a changed form, it doesn't seem like it's going to be in the process much longer. I would like to say that, regardless of which parliamentary groups the promoter comes from, that each act has the same treatment, and on MPs, it is that they judge whether the proposed changes are good or not, whether they are acceptable or not. On the other hand, I am saying that I am very pleased that this number of fellow Members of the People's Parliaments discussed this topic, because until recently it was thought that the issue of motherhood and parenting was solely a question of women. At the same time, I ask all my fellow Members of the People's Parliament to turn all these fine words about the women they have spoken for these two days into activity, that each time they worry about when we're passing new laws or amending laws, and at the same time, after the law is passed together, we all follow how these laws are implemented. I especially insist on implementing this law, because I think it will open up a lot of questions and that our activities in law enforcement control will be very important. We know that our greatest weakness isn't in law making, the laws are passed and we have quality solutions, but what we're really in a lot of pain is that these laws don't apply in the fullest sense and the way they're supposed to. In particular, speaking of these changes, I believe that these proposed changes will contribute to a certain part that women are easier to identify for motherhood, that they will help a particular group of women to continue their careers, but at the same time, I have to express my concern that employers will be more rigorous in watching young women when they are employed and I fear that there will be problems. Although women today at a certain age are in a poor position in the labour market, we should pay attention to the implementation of this law, namely that these categories of young women who plan children are not further threatened, or that employers avoid hiring them. What I would particularly like to point out and what we didn't notice or get in time to submit as MPs certain amendments, I suggest that the parent committee respects the opinion of the Commissioner for Equality, Ms Nevena Petrusic. That is what other MPs have been talking about, and I would just like to support it, which is to make such an amendment that, with the consent of the promoter, would become an integral part of this law, to settle the issue in a different way for women or mothers who produce twins or more children, as well as for parents who adopt the child, to get equal treatment. In this way, we would create an equal relationship for all groups of women and parents, not to put other parents in an unequal position. I find all of this very logical, given that this is proposed in a work relating to the protection of motherhood, and we know that Article 93 is a basic member who speaks of the same rights as Articles 91 and 92 of this Law and that they have the same rights as the adoptor and fosterer and guardian of the child. This means that all the rights relating to parenthood have, at the same time, the adoptor, fosterer or guardian of the child, so that I consider it appropriate, given that it is also proposed, we have a concrete proposal, that the Committee may, in an appropriate manner, at this stage of consideration, make an amendment to this law. Reading the explanation of the law and listening to the careful explanation given by the promoter has shown that he has been practically consulting with a number of women, young women who are in a position or are expecting their happy moments of parenting or are directly behind them and have these experiences. What I miss in preparing this law is the conversation that was to be made with employers and trade unions, as it was going on in a hurry to pass this law, I don't think that part has been done. I think that after the adoption of this law, we should just focus our conversation on employers and on talking to the unions. Because without such an amendment, the law can remain only fine written desires, not concrete law-altering enforcers. On the other hand, what I'd like to say for sure and these changes as partial only in one part of the law will lead to a very fast period, so in the coming months, we need to change some more parts of the law. What encourages is that in the public debate there are amendments and additions to the Labour Act, and at the same time the letter that the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, the Labour Sector, sent to the National Assembly, namely Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the president of the National Assembly, in this regard, that they are preparing amendments to the Labour Act and that they hope to be in parliament by the end of the year for consideration. I believe that only in this way will we be denied the realization of this part. And I would also like to say that we should think more specifically since we have, it is essential that we improve the rights of women, too, and then that is to improve the rights not only of motherhood but of parenting, one of the great reasons and the need for this law is also the depopulation of Serbia, and many of our settlements remain desolate. But what I would turn to, is a category of women who are not in a working relationship, much more difficult than women who are employed, and in which we should especially think about the way we could encourage motherhood, parenting in such environments. Since I come from an area that is predominantly agricultural, with a lot of villages, but in the same situation there are a large number of villages in all Serbia, it is not to mention the difficult position of women from the village, or how few women remain in the country, it is a special problem, and that these women should in some way find some modus, certainly not through the Labour Act, but possibly through one fund, assistance and motherhood for other women who are not in a working relationship and who are in an extremely difficult situation. And in the end, I would end up with it, it's very important for every law that we make that we can evaluate its results. So it would be very good, given that this is a legislative law, to give ourselves one obligation to control in the implementation of this law how it is implemented, to see and to measure the results of such solutions. Just so we can speed up not only this law, but to speed up at all and achieve those goals that we have set by passing such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14342	Twelve minutes spent since the time of the parliamentary group, the word has been proposed by the act, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14343	I certainly do not think that this solution is the only thing we can do and that there is room to improve the position of women and not only women, even Serbian citizens. After all, that is what parliament is for. What you're saying is I completely agree that the Assembly must take a more significant role in monitoring the law's implementation, not this law, all the laws that have been passed, not only in this assembly, but also in previous councils. Let's see if these laws had positive effects on Serbian citizens or not, to what extent they were positive, who supported them, etc. So the Serbian Parliament must assume its control role and must show that this body has its independence and independence. I think it's an important element. As for the equality of the MPs, I will remind you that the first law proposed by one MP in this assembly, adopted and put on the agenda, was the law adopted on 8 November 2012, the law proposed by your fellow MP, Mr Srdjan Mikovic, and thus we showed one significant difference. You know, in previous councils, the amendment couldn't be adopted by the opposition, the amendment, not the law. In this case, this is only the first of many laws of the opposition to be found on the agenda that this assembly will discuss, which God will give, and I think that we have shown a qualitative difference compared to previous calls, when some of the other majority were rather ignoringly treated by the opposition, rather ignored talking about it all, without talking, not wanting this spirit of positive debate about this law that needs to protect women, to turn into something else. But be assured, while I am the president of the National Assembly, that everything I consider and in conversation with my colleagues in the College, which we consider useful for Serbian citizens, no one can stop me from putting it on the agenda. As the National Assembly will vote, I can't say. I can say how I'm going to vote. As far as the government is concerned, I can influence, but I can't tell the government if he's going to make a statement or not. I don't have that kind of power. I can ask them, I can insist, I can put pressure on them with you, but unfortunately I can't decide whether the government will plead or not. I support your efforts and our efforts, as well as the efforts of all MPs to get statements from the government as soon as possible about all the laws, whether they are parliamentary laws or laws proposed by some other authorised promoters. I encourage all MPs and I call on them to work together on changes and additions to laws and comprehensive and less comprehensive ones, which will effectively help improve the lives of Serbian citizens. In this case, we have taken one step forward towards improving the position of mothers, pregnant women, maternity parents, their children, to warn employers that in addition to what is their legal obligation, that the National Assembly will closely monitor the implementation of this law and we want to show that we care whether a woman decides to have a normal life, decide to give birth to a child, and that we don't care whether she has a salary in that period and whether that child has a normal life or not. Is that enough? I'm sure it's not, I'm sure we have to do much more as Serbia, strengthen our country's economic power, improve the employment of both young people and men and women and allow them to have a quality life with their salaries. Not only do we provide them with a salary that may not be adequate, with which they cannot live well today, they cannot live normally, but for that we must all fight together. So I thank all those who support this first step in this fight, and I hope there will be many more, in which we will participate together with this same majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14344	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic, followed by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14345	I would like primarily to welcome the initiative of President of the Assembly of our colleague, Nebojska Stefanovic, to amend and supplement the Labour Act, which will ensure the safety of pregnant women, all mothers, all future mothers on the pillar of our country, and with regard to the achievement of basic human rights guaranteed by the constitution, which is the right to work. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that these rights are often violated and each of us knows at least one woman who was a victim of discrimination based on pregnancy. Years ago, maternity rights have been massively violated, and employers have so far used every opportunity to enforce legal obligations concerning the protection of motherhood. There are many examples of maternity discrimination in practice. We have situations where pregnant women were fired immediately before birth, we have situations that have given birth to families who have had a work contract for a certain period of time, this contract is not extended after childbirth, the situation that women after childbirth have returned to lower jobs and with significantly lower incomes. All of these problems certainly are not an incentive for young mothers to start a family and give birth to children, although in Serbia as early as 2009, a passed Law on the ban on discrimination has entered into force, women continue to put themselves in an unwarranted position, and when they want to enter into a working relationship, they often encounter questions, do you plan on family, do you plan to give birth? For economic reasons, women are increasingly forced to abortions. According to the Institute of Public Health, 1,000 deliberate pregnancy interruptions, i.e. abortions, are performed annually in Vojvodina without private clinic data. For this reason, natural growth is a negative and white plague, a major problem for Serbia, and I will set an example where I come from. I come from Martinci to Sremska Mitrovica, which was considered one of the largest villages of the Sremska-Mitrovina municipality many years ago. Data are frightening and say that in the last decade, from census to census, this population has been reduced by 814 people, because the population is mostly old. The adoption of these changes represents the state's care for women and the incentive to give birth. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law will be in line with the 183 Convention on the Protection of Motherhood, which Serbia ratified in 2010. The proposed solutions will allow better protection of motherhood. The proposed solutions will make it impossible for pregnant women who are employed for a certain period of time to be terminated. Therefore, the risk of losing work due to pregnancy will be reduced and discrimination on the basis of pregnancy and parenting will be curbed. I would also like to say that these changes are a step forward in achieving a policy of equal opportunities for men and women, which I also support as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality and as someone who, in the near future, would want and should be realized in the role of mother. I'm happy to support this law, and I'm glad that these amendments and the addition of the law have reached the widest possible consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14346	Thank you. Three minutes and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic, followed by MP Igor Becic. At the disposal of the SPS parliamentary group for six minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14347	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our biggest and most difficult problem facing is the demographic issue, the halting of the biological decline, the extinction of the nation and the creation of conditions for the rise of the people's life force, the creation of all the preconditions to promote birth, and, among other things, greater assistance to pregnant women and maternity parents. These are the words of the current prime minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, who was presented in July in the exposé and I would like to say that due to his essence, the amendment and addition of the Labour Act are on the line of this policy, which is defined in this way in the exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic and certainly because of this fact they deserve the support of the SPS. Of course, in the strategy of inciting birth, which has been mentioned here several times since 2008, certain measures are also envisaged, i.e. specific objectives that provide for the harmonisation of labour and parenting, and that is another additional reason in favour of these amendments and additions to the Labour Act should be adopted. My colleague, Mr Petronijevic, said – a small change, but a big message. This message can indeed be shown in more ways and it seems to me, first of all, that it must be one call, and first of all, because in Serbia, 40,000 babies are born every year less than the number of deaths. Every sixth citizen is over 65 years old, and demographics claim that when the number over 65 years of age is over two and a half times the number of young people, the end of a nation came, and unfortunately in a number of municipalities in Serbia, it has already happened. Of the 165 municipalities in Serbia, without KIM, only eight recorded positive natural growth and our country is one of the 10 oldest countries in the world. These indicators, of course, have to worry all of us and say, the message can be one kind of call. On the other hand, this problem must not be approached with one dose of improvisation. It should also be aware that the results in the domain of population policy and effects cannot be seen quickly or easily. It takes time and that's why some politicians try to measure their performances in the short term and not deal with them. Fortunately, this government in charge of Mr. Dacic doesn't think so and we're taking certain steps. I believe that in this sense, indeed, by facing a very significant problem, a significant redistribution of national income in favour of the birth and raising of children should be gradually made, because there have already been words here, the long-term depopulation does not leave the possibility that we should target a third child, but because of the long-term depopulation, we need a fourth child in the family that would stop the decline of birth, but in the foreseeable period, it has allowed the restoration of the population. I would also like to say that at this point, I would like to express my own personal position, respecting the fact and these problems that we are facing and which are repeatedly mentioned here in the debate, that there is no more significant task than one human reproduction, the restoration of the biological population. For this reason, I would certainly like to propose to our government, my government, that a single fund be set up to restore the population and determine its way of alimony, some sort of child dinar, which would be legally and voluntarily filled, and possibly establish a zone in the Republic where the dying rate is greater than the birth rate and, depending on it, predict certain incentives and vice versa. Many times in discussions on tax laws, budgets, rebalancing and all the topics that were in this direction, I also expressed my opinion and attitude. This time I want to say that it is also necessary to consider the possibility of introducing a tax on bachelors and childless marriages. I believe that today, too, it is current and possible, could contribute to the charge of this one population-rehabilitation fund. Of course, such a measure would show the country's additional determination and desire to face this problem and certainly that such a measure would not be a punishment, but merely an expression of one social solidarity. We have often mentioned here today whether an economic factor is important for the definition of parenthood or not, I want to say that there are certain research that does not exactly support this thesis, but rather the opposite of saying that three-fifths of the white plague are conditioned purely psychologically, so on. "the psychological cost of parenting", giving up some plans, aspirations, pleasures and everything else, and that only one-fifth of the waste is for medical reasons or conditioned by economic reasons. Because of all this, there should be an education system on the exam, because new challenges are being put in place in the coming time. Local self-government, which must certainly be included in demographic population policy, has also been mentioned here, in order to express certain specificities in these areas. I think there are some good examples of Jagodina and Belgrade here. When it comes to the relationship and value system in our society, unfortunately, young people often implant the messages of some jungle idols that they should live for themselves, that they should fight for as much money as possible, because more money means more happiness, joy, influence and reputation, which is certainly not true. The media in this problem should be involved, and a long time ago the answer to such a single question was given by the great Tolstoy, who said – there is only one way to be happy, to live for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14348	This used the time available to the SPS parliamentary group. The word of the messenger of the people is Paul Markov. After him is the messenger of the people of Vesna the Raconite.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14349	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, agenda of this Second Session of the National Assembly, with the exception of the proposal for a law on special measures to prevent and carry out criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, has been completed by another more than the human proposal for a labour law, which has the same aim, which is to adopt preventive measures in order to ensure special protection of motherhood. At the moment of difficult economic relations in our country, the proposed protection and increase in the rights of pregnant women, is a contribution to resolving the fundamental, alarming problem of society, which is the decline of the ethnicity of Serbian citizens. It is unnecessary to stress that the existence of a state is conditioned by the existence of a people, and we are obliged to do everything in order to adopt emergency measures, such as this draft labour law, which promotes the position of pregnant women and future mothers, especially those strategic, primarily raising the economic power of the population, to ensure positive demographic movements in Serbia. The special support and protection of future Mayan is unequivocally proposed by the addition of Article 187. The labour law, by obliging the employer to extend the employment contract for a period of time until the expiry of the right to leave, with the exception of the ban on the termination of the labour contract and the additional obligation to extend the work contract until the expiry of the right to leave, thus providing general protection to this category of employees from the termination of the labour contract. It should be noted that this change will not damage the employer because the payment of earnings during maternity leave is carried out on the burden of budget funds from the position of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, which assumes the burden of commitment. To the newly added bet of Article 387. The labour law is particularly stressed and provides additional protection to the employee in the event that the employer violates the ban on the job contract during pregnancy, maternity leave, the absence of child care, and by declaring such an act invalid and thus abolishing any fact of such an act in the beginning. The proposed protections of this law are also followed by trends in highly developed countries in this area and in domestic legislation complement the provisions on mothers from Convention 183 on the Protection of Motherhood, adopted by the International Labour Organisation, which was ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Because of the sensitivity of this law, we will have to pay particular attention to the implementation of the same further promotion, and this sensitivity, other than the state, must have a broad social community, in particular I mean the media. I'm going to take this opportunity to point out too much of the problem of globular bureaucracy that mothers have to fill from the moment they find out they're pregnant to the first months of growing up a child, so, as an example, I point out that for a parent child's supplement, 15 documents are needed. We still remember a picture of a mother from Belgrade who painted her three-month-old baby with 52 documents, which she needed in order to obtain only part of what she owned by law and thus simply showed all the absurdity of the state in terms of improving the birth rate and protecting the youngest. Finally, I would like to commend this initiative by the President of the National Assembly, who, as chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, responded to a number of complaints from citizens addressed to the National Assembly seeking the protection of pregnant women employed for a certain time, as well as the prohibitions of abuse by the employer and gave an example of the state’s responsible and clear behaviour towards its citizens by means of an emergency law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14350	It was used three minutes and 55 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is a folk letter from Vesna Rakonjac, followed by a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14351	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, at the moment that we are on the last list, 300 000 fewer, we are trying to put aside the best possible promotion and promotion of breastfeeding, promotion and the incentive to give birth and reduce intentional interruptions of pregnancy by means of a bill of amendments and amendments to the law on work. The benefits for mothers and children in health terms, and I will refer to this bill, are enormous. If we know that all world studies speak of the importance of breast-feeding as one of the preventive measures to prevent breast cancer in women, because specific and unique hormonal mechanisms during breast-feeding undoubtedly have a protective effect, and they are completely free of charge, the benefit for babies is multiple, because no artificial milk formula can completely replace breast milk, and so the boys were at a better start-up position, emotionally stable, have better immunity, and thus are more resistant to many infections in their later life and have a lower risk of diabetes, obesity and many other chronic mass diseases, which are now taking an epidemic character. The benefits for employers can also be defined as investment in the future. A mother who has the right to part-time or rest for a child is more emotionally relaxed, relieved and more productive in work, and in a later period should be less absent from work because of illness and child care, because breast-feeding children are more resistant to various infections that make mothers most often absent from work. The amendment of Article 187 paragraph 2 corrects a number of years of injustice, where a woman who wants to be realized as a mother is to be stegmatized and that the event she and her family expect as the most joyful event must be hidden in order to at least delay the loss of work or degradation in a business sense for a while. Even more unfavourable are single mothers who have decided to give birth. Their position will be significantly improved by amending this law, as it will have at least some kind of safe income in the first months after delivery. Mental peace and economic stability during pregnancy are very important both for the health of the mother and for the health of the child. We are often able to hear about how many diseases have roots not only in early childhood, but also in the intrauterine life of a child, and which are caused by various stresses during pregnancy and can be seen through economic uncertainty, and thus by inadequate and poor nutrition in pregnancy. In this way, all we want to do is define in an unequivocal way the protection of pregnant women, infants and their offspring, all in order to encourage the birth and raising of healthy offspring. During the debate so far, we could hear that the greatest burden would be borne by employers. Among other things, I think they're going to win by amending this law. We know the hardest thing to do is take the first step. That is why I call on all employers to strengthen both social responsibilities and a more humane attitude towards their employees, in addition to the law of the envisaged obligations, and I call on my fellow Members to support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14352	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Jasmina Obradovic, followed by MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14353	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, debate on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act that we are conducting today, as well as all discussions so far, that we have the right to differing views, but when it comes to the clarification of this law, it seems to me that we will reach a broad consensus here and that it will be adopted by a vast majority. What's my attitude as MPs, women and, above all, mothers of three children is that these changes in the Labour Act are necessary. As someone who has 33 years of employment, I've been through various kinds of reforms and acts of law that define motherhood. It's always been more declarative than essential. Let's remember the law where it was defined as an incentive to give birth to another year's internship for a third child. Many women have convinced themselves that it is not true. He was registered as a special internship in the workbooks, but it wasn't a job internship and it didn't mean he could retire a year earlier. The promoter very well explained the reasons why he referred this bill, which is: the fall of the birthright, which our country has and which is growing year after year, the denial of the right to motherhood, and the return of the job, and later the retention of the job. The fact that pregnant women and mothers cannot and should not be concerned only by families, but also by society, must not be ignored, because if we build a society where awareness of the importance of birth is developed as a prerequisite for staying and surviving, then we have a future. There is no doubt that these amendments and additions to the Labour Act prevent one form of discrimination, because if the law recognises and allows certain rights to permanent women, pregnant women, while those same rights are denied to those women who work under contract, for a certain period of time. What is it? It's a form of discrimination. In Section IV of the Labour Act entitled "Protection of Motherhood", several members have defined the way in which women are protected during pregnancy and after childbirth. The addition of Article 93 also lays down the constitutional principle, according to which the mother enjoys special support before and after childbirth, as well as the application of the provisions on mothers of the 183 Convention on the Protection of Motherhood, adopted by the International Labour Organisation, and ratified the National Assembly in 2010. Bringing and applying this member will certainly make it at least a little easier on the position of a working mother who has a baby. By amending Article 187(2). a significant change in the status of a pregnant woman who is employed under contract for a certain period of time. We are witnessing how many cases there were in 2013 alone, a pregnant woman who had lost her job in an already advanced pregnancy, because they had run out of deadlines. Here's just a few examples. In Kikinda, a pregnant woman was fired, and when she filed a lawsuit, the court dismissed her as unfounded. This case is special in that the same court, even the same judge, the lawsuits of her colleagues, which were filed on the same basis, adopted. When she asked a lawyer at her firm for an explanation, she received an answer to mediate her free judgment. So much for courts, but it's not a subject, and it could be. Further, Kragujevac, a pregnant woman in her sixth month of pregnancy, was fired at a time when she was at risk for her pregnancy, more specifically in the hospital. The trouble is, at that very time, the deadline on which she was admitted into a working relationship expired. Her comment that she understands that the employer did not break the law, because the law allows him to do so, but where is morale and a speck of humanity? This is just a confirmation that the amendment of Article 187 of Article 2 is necessary. I'll give you one more example. The new Sad - pregnant woman lost her job in the fifth month of pregnancy. She didn't have an extension of her work contract. This case is by no means different from many of the other pregnant women whose working relationship was not extended after the expiry of the period on which they were admitted, although some, even most of them, worked for several years by the same extension after the expiry of the period. So the need for their engagement existed. What this case distinguishes from others is a statement from the director given in one of the local media, and it reads - everything in my power, I did. The fact is, we're not an orderly society where pregnant women can extend the labor contract that's expired, because if we did, the law would have predicted it. It's precisely because of how many injustices were committed to pregnant women that we have to become an orderly society, and society is arranged right through good laws, but also through the application of those laws. I am convinced that, when the law defines it, employers will realize that besides legal, they must also have a moral obligation to have some bad experience of women who do not want to give up motherhood for a job, no longer happens. Finally, I cannot express any particular satisfaction that these amendments and additions are proposed by the President of the Assembly, although, after years young, I am obviously already fully responsible and aware of the fact of the necessity of improvement both in general and in working conditions for the achievement of motherhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14354	Six minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. After him, National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14355	The esteemed chairman, distinguished ladies Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, as many MPs hold to this topic, says how many of us are present in this assembly. I'm sad that we're this few, especially from the LDP parliamentary group, there's no one from the opposition. I want a strong opposition and I want an opposition who will participate in the work... (President: People's MP, please leave custody to the chairman, to allow the chairman to direct you to the rights and obligations of the Members of Parliament and to the member of 106 who obliges you to speak on the agenda point. ) Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I was just about to connect to the agenda point... (President: It is irrevocable, MP. What you've said so far is irrevocable, and I'm asking you about the agenda. )......................................................................................................... which is very interesting for all the MPs, not just for individuals. This amendment to the Labour Act, launched by Mr. President of the Serbian Parliament, is the right thing not only for pregnant women and mothers, but for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia for at least four reasons. First, because this law, i.e. amending and supplementing laws, will prevent abuses by not employers, as we have spoken today, but by some employers, because there are also good employers, according to women by asking illegal, different questions when talking about employment. Secondly, you will implement the International Labour Organisation Convention number 183 on the Protection of Motherhood in our legislation, especially in the Labour Act. Third, which will help stop the depopulation process affecting the Republic of Serbia and the fourth, an attempt at at least to stop the Serbian state and nation's collapse. If that were true, I will try to quote the report of the Citizens' Protector, which you ladies and gentlemen have received these days, which was sent to us on March 15th, on page 67, which on this subject, I quote: "As one of the main priorities of the national policy of the Republic of Serbia, it is not uncommon for all relevant institutions and public authorities to propose, monitor and apply measures that would stimulate birth, given the drastic decline of birth in Serbia in recent decades. In practice, however, pregnant women tend to find employment more difficult. Infrequently, they are paid a salary during pregnancy, maternity, and leave for the care of a child. Pregnant women who are employed for a certain time, most often do not extend the contract of work, and their working relationship ends," the quote was completed. It is true that the Citizens' Protector has criticised the former Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the current, as you Madam Chairman noted in your discussion. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that in 2010, the previous meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the IOR Convention, but this ratified Convention was to be implemented by the former government in our domestic legislation, especially in the Labour Law. Unfortunately, it did not happen, but it did not happen that the Ministry of Labour of this government put it on the agenda, as Mrs. Comic stressed, that it was not done. That is why it was done by the Committee on Child Protection and the President of the National Assembly, Mr Stefanovic. Since then, a number of complaints have been received from citizens, not only the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but the Citizen's Protector, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, trade unions and other state bodies, but also some NGOs who simply seek the protection of pregnant women employed for a certain period of time. In just two months last year, the Citizens' Protector received 16 complaints concerning maternity and pregnant women. That is why the initiative of Mr Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly, is to protect pregnant women and mothers. These amendments to the Labour Act are not only a human matter but praiseworthy in every respect. Our employers, I say some employers, often ask illegal and discriminatory questions when hiring women and the conditions not to give birth to children or to be fired after the birth of a child. In this way, some employers directly or secretly influence the depopulation policy in the Republic of Serbia, and this is very dangerous for the survival of the people in general, as the Citizens' Protector said. Why? Because the depopulation process has affected Serbia in very dangerous proportions leading to a demographic disaster. I only note that Serbia is the first country in the Balkans at the mortality rate, therefore, by mortality, and the last one at the birth rate, not only in the Balkans but also in Europe. Let me say in two sentences that from 1900 to today, the Turkish people have increased 400 times, the Albanian people 700 times, Romanian by 45%, Bulgarian by 38%, Greek by 35%. The only people who do not increase are the Serbian people. These are research of scientific institutes and SAN. Every step in Serbia is attended by 0.81% of children, which means that Serbs as a people are extinct. If this process continues, in 2100 Serbia will have 2 million and 900 inhabitants without Kosovo and Metohija, and only Kosovo and Metohija 4 and a half million. In 500 years, Serbs will disappear biologically as a people, if such a policy continues. Now of the 100% of the villages in Serbia, 72% of the villages, the hearths have already been shut down. So let me give you another piece of information about the law. The number of marriages completed in the past two decades has been reduced by - A third of married couples have no offspring, half of which is due to medical problems. At the moment, 80,000 are asking for the help of a doctor to become parents. At 24 hours, no child is born in maternity homes, and the average Serbian woman entered in the fifth decade. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the economic situation that caused this phenomenon. In times of poverty, more children were born. The proof of this is that today the greatest growth in women is avoided and displaced, whose wives and husbands live under the most difficult economic circumstances. You saw the show yesterday and today, in Krnjaca, where they can't leave the barracks for four days from the sewers and feces, unfortunately. They asked for help from the municipality to the Commissioner for Refugees, but they didn't find it. Today rich homes have one or no children. What's the cause of this? We're selfish, we're selfish, we're not ready for sacrifice, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is achieved by education and education. That is why education should be returned to schools, families, sports organisations, homes, political organisations, here in the Assembly. In one word, in society. The care of a family, or mother, child, is the care of pregnant women for future generations. It is a product of smart and noble investment, and women's rights and family interests are a condition of success, believe it or not, but national policies drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I would say that by amending the Labour Act, which was submitted by our President of the Assembly, Mr Stefanovic, the mother and pregnant women employed at a certain time will not only be protected, but will also have a direct effect on stopping the depopulation policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another fulfillment of the SNS pre-election promise, that it will try to protect our pregnant women and mothers, and at least try to stop the depopulation policy that leads us to a demographic disaster. I must say and hope that our Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will soon put before us a Labour Law, where we will coordinate relations between employers, workers, the state and the EU. I call on you, on that behalf, to vote for the amendments and additions of this law, at least a little, as MPs, to contribute to stopping the depopulation policy, and I also call on you, as Mrs. Chairman said, that through the inspector we are controlling whether this, and not only this but every other law, will be implemented in action. On that behalf, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14356	Ten minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. This concludes the morning part of our work, the debate on the rule of law that is under way, and on the application of the word of the MPs. We continue on Tuesday, April 2, 2013, starting at 11.00 hours. The first to be declared will be Parliamentarian Milanka Jevtovic Vukojičić, followed by Parliamentarian Irena Aleksic. I interrupt the morning part of the work, with a very short break, because at 4:00 p.m. we continue our work with a session where MPs ask questions to the Prime Minister and members of the government. At 4:00 p.m., we'll continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14357	Dear People's MPs, since today's last Thursday of the month is in accordance with Article 205(1). We approach the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to ask parliamentary questions in time from 16:00 to 1900 hours. The Secretary General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia informed the National Assembly that the next members of the government were unable to attend today's session asking parliamentary questions: Mladjan Dinkic, Finance and Business Minister, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Management and Mr. Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP first has to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly shall warn any MP, who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The Government's oral question, i.e. the Minister, must reply immediately, if a certain preparation is necessary, they must explain this to the MP in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. If a response to the parliamentary question is to be drawn up to establish certain facts, whose determination requires a longer period of time and a more complex analysis, the time limit for responding to the parliamentary question may be extended or up to 30 days at most. The competent minister shall address the National Assembly for a maximum period of five minutes to answer the question. Also, according to Article 207. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, shall have the right to comment, within a maximum of three minutes, on the answer to their question and to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and apportioning of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I would remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, by giving a change of word first to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking questions. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14358	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will refer my question to the Prime Minister. In fact, as early as November 19th last year, I asked a written question that I had not yet received an answer, and it concerned the construction of a memorial centre of the gendarme above the Albanian village of Luciana near Bujanovac and, of course, my interest was - what would the government and the Ministry of Interior do to stop illegal works and to prevent the provocation that was made by this monument in relation to the Albanian population that had a fresh memory from the time there were conflicts in which the special police forces participated? With no Education Minister, I will ask a second question concerning the first funding of the national council of the Albanian national minority that has been threatened this three months this year, as it has come to the government's decisions or recommendations that the Office for Human and Minority Rights has reduced the orientation by four times the funding of this council, to the Albanian community's council. The reason is that this is done because the last list came up with about 5,800 Albanians and that, as you can see, this reflected quite a lot compared to the 61,000 Albanians listed in 2002. I think there's a very serious question here right now. It's not just a matter of national councils whose activity is seriously compromised. It has just begun to train itself to solve very sensitive and long-crowded problems in the field of education in a very good co-operation with the Ministry of Education, and now suddenly this obstruction is coming, according to me, a blockade directly by the government, as the Ministry of Education has obstructed the National Council of Albanians. I doubt it again, since it is the work of the President of the Coordination Body, that it is my fault to have the wrong approach in solving the problem in the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14359	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14360	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when it comes to the monument of the gendarmes, surely the monument to the dead members of the gendarme no longer disturbs the public rather than harassing more than 20 monuments to the dead KLAs, OVPBMs, etc. to which the state has not responded in the last ten years. Given the situation that existed in southern Serbia regarding the removal of monuments from the centre of Presevo, the gendarme monument has not been officially discovered yet. On that side, I don't see any reason to make a big spectacle about it. I recently had a meeting with embassy representatives, who make up so-called a group of friends in southern Serbia. I mentioned that it might be logical for KIM, those who have recognised Kosovo's independence there to have embassies, to make a group of friends in northern Kosovo, which has not occurred to them so far. We discussed in general the way we should overcome all these problems. More dots have been defined. Among other things, it is the answer to your second question, which is the desire for Albanians to be not only Albanians, but all other members of the national minorities of the national communities, to be integrated into our society. This means that they are fully equal factors of social and political and every other life in Serbia, and that will include resolving this issue that Mr. Halimi was talking about, which is the issue of funding the work of the National Council. The new head of the co-ordination body, Mr. Zoran Stankovic, thinks he is doing his job correctly and well and has established contact with Albanian representatives in the south, with representatives of international communities, with foreign ambassadors. We have my support, as prime minister, and the entire Serbian government, regardless of being a minister. I hope we're interested in preserving peace, security, stability. Of course, the biggest problem that exists in the south, which affects Albanians and Serbs, which is the great poverty and backlog of this region. Without any desire to raise tensions, all these things need to be solved in accordance with the law. If the laws are not good, they should be changed, but there must be clear rules that will apply to all cases and thus avoid the tensions that are already expected in the announcement, such as the announcement of a memorial centre for dead KLA members, OVPM, which you certainly cannot say will come across the enthusiasm of citizens in southern Serbia. To prevent all negative consequences, dialogue is the best solution, but there are laws, there are the Constitutions of our country and they must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14361	Mr. Halimi has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14362	Your Honor, Mr. President, that there is a provocation in Luciano, it is quite obvious, based on the petition that the citizens have filed there. I was a direct participant in the negotiations that was then resolved. I know for a fact that there were individuals among the special forces involved in the organized murder of the Prime Minister of this country and that there were a lot of civilians killed there at the time. Two hundred metres above the pure Albanian settlement is being built, and it is an illegal, memorial centre of the gendarmes, which is kept all the time through the gendarmes. It means emergency, which I find absolutely unacceptable. As far as Presheva is concerned, you know that intervention came at times when it was very clear that there was a desire and a willingness to solve this problem together, but there was no such thing as preparedness. I'm going back to the President of the Coordination Body again. I said it is at high risk of blocking the National Council of the Albanian National Minority, as the funds have been reduced about four times since the beginning of this year. In my opinion, absolutely for no reason. I repeat again, based on the public opinion of the President of the Co-ordination Body that it will advocate allowing representatives of municipalities to resolve existing directors. There has been a conflict and a very serious violation of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and the Law on National Councils. I ask the question – what do we need a national council if legal competencies have one representative of the government blocking it all? Do you think this area is experimental? We don't need laws here. Who here has the right, under which jurisdiction can one, in my opinion, imputed, impose by the Government only on the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, that he has the power to unlawfully relieve directors through the President of the municipalities? That's unprecedented to me. There's a gray zone being created, there's a lot to be done. Is that then the interest of state policy? Does it now concern someone in the center to create chaos in schools, but also in all the institutions that we legally chose in the elections? What's this all about?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14363	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14364	I absolutely agree with you, Mr. Halimi, that the laws should be respected. Also, in this country, citizens have the right to have adequate responsibilities and responsibilities. It is the right of citizens to choose whether to participate in the elections. As you know, some have participated in the election, and some have not. You did, and I'm giving you credit because that's what you showed that you consider Serbia your country. On the other hand, there were political groups calling on Albanians to boycott the elections, but also to boycott the census. The direct consequence of the population census boycott is likely to reduce some of the financial resources allocated to the National Council. It's a subject that can be discussed, and I don't think there's any reason for any of this to come up with any kind of problem, especially political. If this is a subject that is problematic, at the next meeting with the head of the coordination body, I will raise the question and we will consider what is happening and whether the work of the National Council is really at stake. If so, we will surely take steps to create all conditions. We aim to continue the process of integration of Albanians into Serbian society, into the state of Serbia and to participate in all institutions, from police, judiciary, customs and everything else that exists in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14365	Mr. Halimi has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14366	Mr. President, I'm sure we agree that elections should be respected, although you know that two days before the last elections in Bujanovac were the intervention of the gendarme, and related to the boycott of the list and the remarks that we then suggested were baselessly imposed on that list only a Cyrillic letter, which was imposed in the last elections. What made these choices crazy for us? Because it was a deformed Cyrillic, which even the Serbs could not, who know the Cyrillic well, read. No one knew what two x's were, three x's, c's, because that's how the names of Albanians were written. In this 23 years, I've been following all the elections and we've always used Latin or Albanian alphabet. Why was that in both the list and the last election? That's what you in the government need to analyze. Who should've put something like that on? I don't agree with the logic of having to discuss this with the President of the Coordination Body when the Office for Human and Minority Rights is a government body. That's what the government needs to discuss. It should not have been allowed to block the work of the National Council for three months. I repeat again, in time they've just begun to do something more serious, the first results have been proven, there's a blockade. But, I repeat, the blockade is directly carried out by the ministry by giving competence to the president of the co-ordination body, that, in agreement with the president of the Bujanovac municipality, the directors are illegally replaced, on the grounds that the representatives of the National Council on School Committees are previously replaced, and the ministry is silent, although it has the legal right to intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14367	National MP Olena Papuga, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14368	Dear President, representatives of the government, fellow MPs, I would like to ask my parliamentary question to Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic. My question concerns students, i.e. highly educated nurses and technicians, who obtained degrees from healthcare organizers at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad, University of Novi Sad. In 2003, in addition to the studies of medicine, dentistry and pharmacies, there were open study courses for primary academic medical care studies and for the professional nurse. From the budget of the Republic of Serbia, each school year, 70 students, future healthcare organizers, mean four years of study, and 30 self-financing students, future nurses, three years of study, are enrolled. This results in that from school 2008/2009. The first generation of graduate academic medical care studies, i.e. master's studies, was also enrolled in the year. Thanks to basic academic studies of healthcare, as well as master medical care studies, at the Department of Health Care of the Medical Faculty of the University of Novi Sad, since school 2009/2010. In the year, seven masters of graduate healthcare organizers participate in teaching and teaching at the Medical School. Also, a significant number of healthcare organizers have also been employed at the state medical school in Novi Sad, so they are handing over items in the area of healthcare. A solution has been found in the education system for highly educated nurses, where they have a defined coefficient in accordance with the degree of education and, accordingly, an appropriate material compensation. The problem is that the nurses who finish colleges, in clinical hospital practice, have not defined their position. Where they are most needed, within all levels of health care, highly educated nurses and after completing their studies at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad, they carry out jobs designed for nurses with high school, without being able to participate in raising patients to a higher level, for which they are also educated. Citing adopted documents, when it comes to health care in the Republic of Serbia, such as an EU accession strategy, as well as a European EU directive in the education of nurses, I would ask a parliamentary question – why are they not recognised in student graduate practice, i.e. The highly educated nurses, who received education at the University of Novi Sad Medical School, and the diplomas of professional nurses acquired at Belgrade's High School of Medical Studies? (President: Time, Mrs. Parrot. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14369	Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14370	In accordance with the statutes of individual institutions, the procedure that must also be in line with the Republic Staff Plan, which brings the Ministry each year, is being completed, and this year we just finished, a few days ago, filling the staff in health institutions for 2013. The statutes of the institution provide for which profile and in which number each institution is required, in accordance with the health performance it performs, and the question is the statute of the institution whether to employ persons with higher or higher education, which is usually limited by financial means belonging to that institution. When it comes to staff in Vojvodina, the Ministry of Health of Vojvodina and how it has the opportunity to propose to the Ministry of Health certain changes that we can negotiate and bring them into line with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14371	Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14372	I'm interested – why? The funds are allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So the state gives up certain funding from the budget to educate these students, for example, 70 students each year study from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It means that when they finish that high school, they won't have anything to do. What, then, is the state's interest in seizing these funds from the budget? After all, they're all nurses, where they might be working, and then they're taking extra classes after night shifts. I don't understand -- why isn't it consistent that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health somehow don't work together?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14373	You are absolutely right, that there is a discrepancy of registration policy and real opportunities in state institutions, employment and other profiles. We have this problem, for example, with medics, doctors who finish medical schools according to registration policy, but which is not consistent with real employment opportunities. In this sense, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education agree, for example, that in the community Medical schools are simply planning needs and registration policies down to those levels which will mean more detailed registration quotas than they have ever been before. But that will practically mean that fewer medics will be educated and educated at the highest level. The assessment, but indeed, the minister of education would be more competent in that part, is that those who want to be educated in accordance with the need for each man to be educated, that they should not be denied, and how much employment capacity will indeed depend, above all, on the country's economic potential, because it is clear that we could open a much greater number of health institutions than we have, if it could endure Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14374	Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14375	I understand that you recommend those students who study, those nurses who study, that they study it in their own way, so, like, education for their own needs, because they've decided in life, that they're persuading, but that's not doing anything to them in life. I don't understand what you're recommending such students to do further, or who's going to enroll in these vocational studies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14376	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14377	In line with the current discussion on Brussels, I would like to ask a few questions to Mr. Ivica Dacic and to our political position, in order to get the best solutions. First, since the Serb municipalities in Kosovo are far from each other, that they are not territorially connected, not counting municipalities in northern Kosovo, that every municipality owns property in its territory, we do not have any specific property to have a community of Serb municipalities, if each municipality owns its property, which is a special property of the community? What's that, some buildings, buildings, woods, land, what? What property, past the uncontested municipal property, are we looking for a Serb community? Should the community have their own property? Is that more important to anyone or the Serbian people? With powers in their municipalities, that's, in our opinion, an essential question. Is the proposal allowing Serbs in Kosovo to have a compact national corps? In our opinion, there are no obstacles. Are there obstacles to the Serb National Corps within the community of municipalities resolving common issues, the community having its own assembly, co-ordinating and taking common positions both towards Brussels and Serbia and Belgrade and Pristina. Does the community have its executive powers and government, or do they have Serb municipalities with very broad powers above the existing European standards, specific and special according to Ahtisaari's plan? Then, does the Serb community play a role in the area of police and justice? What kind of special police should have a community of Serb municipalities that are not geographically interlinked? Are Serbs offered to have their municipal courts in both Kosovo Mitrovica and the Kosovo Mitrovica Court of Appeal department? Further engagement, according to us, should be directed to obtain Serbian courts in all Serb municipalities, which would reflect the ethnic composition of the population. According to Ahtisaari's plan, which has been incorporated into a lot of Kosovo laws, the composition of the police corresponds to the ethnic composition of the population in municipalities. This means that in all nine Serb municipalities, Serbs will be mostly represented in the police, and the presidents of the municipality will appoint police commanders, which is not the case in Serbia. We think more attention should be given to the Serb population that exists, to Serb municipalities that exist and their rights, but to something that is not a municipality and is not a life. The right municipality with the Serbian majority should be counted and compared to the rights of municipalities in Serbia, so that they have a very real picture. Our position is to fight in Brussels for as many powers as possible of Serb municipalities, to get as many competencies as possible, unless they are embedded in Ahtisaari's plan. (President: Time. I'm done. It is necessary to fight for the rights of Serbs in municipalities, not for the rights of the bodies with special powers, because it is not necessary to make a belief out of the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14378	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14379	This is a specific and specific issue in relation to the whole matter complex, related to dialogue and problems and open issues about Kosovo and Metohija. I suppose I can't remember correctly, but I think the SPO parliamentary group voted in favour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in which it was precisely defined and written all of this which you are asking questions about. The platform, prepared by the president of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, is in the light of the resolution. It was not here at all, as far as I understand the writer of that platform, the idea of a Serb community, is not an idea that would disable the authority of municipalities. We are not interested in fighting between municipalities and communities when it comes to powers. Here, according to the platform's authors, it was an idea and that some of these responsibilities be the original responsibilities that the community has, and now they don't have municipalities. Not to go deeper into the subject, because we are talking about one completely unnecessary thing, because the Pristina side absolutely does not accept any executive powers of that community. So we're not arguing now about what kind of community it's supposed to be, because it doesn't exist right now. She doesn't exist right now and the question is whether she'll be formed at all. Of course, the most important question is what the community will do. The issue of property, the question of community competence is, in fact, being asked as one of the ways of transforming the institutions of the Republic of Serbia into the institutions of that community, and hence, property. So this is one complex question and, in fact, the key points in the dialogue are about that. Since I've opened that topic, you've been asking questions here a few times when they're going to be debated in parliament and why isn't Parliament informed? You know that I have informed not only the state summit on everything that is going on, but all the citizens of Serbia, and I have not hidden a single detail of what has been discussed. Compared to the previous session dedicated to the Resolution, nothing happened that would change our attitude, nor was anything accepted that was different from the previous situation. In addition, for the eight-month period that the Government of the Republic of Serbia exists, it was exclusively about the implementation of the agreements already reached, and the only new agreement reached was on the exchange of one liaison officer with the EU Mission in Pristina and Belgrade. So far, there is no official proposal, nor a new Serbian proposal that would deviate from the previous one. Of course, the problems we are facing are such that these questions that you are about, and I suppose you're asking that question from the point of view -- why doesn't Serbia now accept Ahtisaari's plan? It's not a problem for you to accept Ahtisaari's plan. We need to know one thing - even Ahtisaari's plan is not applicable in Kosovo. Even for him today, he needs to fight. The problem is that with each new negotiation, we have an increasingly weak position and a weak starting point. We today need to experience the success of our talks and negotiations in applying Kosovo's laws, which are now not applicable. What you're talking about is like that, but on paper. I also spoke with representatives of the municipalities that were established under that plan, and they have many objections that are just being made up and referring to what I was talking about. So Serbia is ready to agree, is ready to compromise and it is not disputed, but Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija should have powers, a community that will have powers that will not be a protocol type, but not primarily at the expense of municipalities. I want to tell you that it won't be us who refuse anything, nor do we want to refuse, but everyone has to understand that we don't run these negotiations to apply Kosovo laws. If this problem is so simple and can only be solved by applying Ahtisaari's plan or Kosovo laws, why not solve it? Why are they inviting Serbia to talk? This must be a special political agreement and a plan to solve the problems that exist, because I have not heard that no other region or territory, such as the north, is engaged in the entire international community, and to say so – you cannot be anything special in relation to the municipalities that exist in Kosovo. If so, why is such attention being paid? Why? Because neither we have factual sovereignty in the field of much of Kosovo's territory, nor do they have some allegedly mixed sovereignty in northern Kosovo. That's where we need to find a solution that would allow us to move on. We're really defined for coming to a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14380	The word is Mr. Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14381	Thank you, Prime Minister. Of course the SPO knows that it's a very complex and difficult negotiating process, but what we want to say and what you've repeated, and what we've talked about two decades ago, is that somehow we've been weakening our negotiating position with every new round of negotiations. It's good for you to reason the same way we do. For this reason, we felt that if we compared the Serb community to the administrative environments in Serbia, which are geographically connected, which are involved in several municipalities in the area, which are connected and geographically and as regards infrastructure have a number of infrastructure joint projects, our only goal was to draw attention to you not to overexhaust yourself in the competences of the community, which will function so hard, but in any case it is necessary and no one is slowed down, but to pay full attention to what exists, and there are nine Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. Their institutions should be strengthened and more attention should be paid to our population in Kosovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14382	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14383	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Assembly, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions for the Prime Minister. Now you might say why I don't ask him that when I see him past this agenda. Because it's always in America and constantly in America fighting the battle to bring investors to Serbia and how to explain to America that Serbia is not what their media has been showing for years, how Serbs are like this or like this. Mr. Prime Minister, today in the Assembly, the agenda is the Labour Act, where birthrights, pregnant women are threatened, it's a good thing that the law came on the agenda, that employers can't fire mothers who give birth to children from work. We also have a much bigger problem. What about women who have babies and don't work anywhere? Each of us in the election campaign is talking about the fight against the white plague, visiting maternity homes, I don't know, carrying bags, etc., and when the elections are over, no one mentions the problem anymore. It is not enough that Unity Serbia works in three cities, where it is in power -- in Jagodina, Krusevec and Vranjska Banja, where we give 1,200 euros each when a child is born. We do not want that point to be proposed by the Unique Serbia, that some do not say – well, we want to get some political points, but we ask that the government propose that point of the agenda, whether when budget rebalance is done or how to define it. A large number of mothers today are in a situation to give birth to a second or third child and live in the country. And despite the fact that the agricultural producer isn't protected and the village, the aflatoxin destroyed agricultural production, not only milk, but we don't need corn, tomorrow someone's gonna say we're not good at apples or beans, everything else is better, and we're gonna destroy our own. Please make up for the damages to the agricultural producers. This is the same question for the Minister of Trade. I'm not saying the Minister of Trade has a responsibility, and he, a man, is always traveling somewhere, how to help Serbia. But, trade ministers, we need to stop what is produced in Serbia, to import into Serbia. Because that's the only way we can help the farmer. Each year in Serbia, a city the size of 30,000 people disappears. I'm saying this because I'm working where people have confessed to me, but I'd like for all of Serbia to do what is done where the people have recognized me, in Jagodina. I also ask you, Prime Minister, that the government help all local self-governments in Serbia, that the jubilee rewards for educators do not pay local self-governments, because this is not foreseen in the inflow of local self-government budgets where inflows are getting smaller and smaller. (President: Time. )Employer is the Ministry of Education and State, not local self-government. A large number of schools in Serbia today have blocked accounts, that they cannot pay what is basic and what is important for the maintenance of school facilities and buildings. I also ask you, please, and Vucica, that now that you are going to Brussels, you have the authority, and you also have the responsibility to take responsibility to resolve this issue of Kosovo and Metohija, not to put our heads in the sand again and to delay some time period for some six months or two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14384	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. You'll have another three-minute question. Here you go, Mr. Dacic, if you'd like. (The National MP Siniša Kovacevic speaks from the site, but the microphone is off. Don't, please. First, do not speak that way in the National Assembly. The questions are not addressed to the MPs, they are addressed to the members of the Government who respond, and Mr Dacic wants to answer this and he has the right to do so. Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14385	I think this is what Mr. Markovic was talking about, a fundamental issue that I do not think we have even talked about, although I was talking about in my exposé when I was elected -- the issue of Natalie and the major problems facing Serbia in a biological sense. That is why the government is currently discussing and analysing what measures could be applied, even in these conditions of the economic crisis and budget deficits, etc. which would be stimulating, in terms of relief for mothers, maternity parents, by means of children's supplements, etc., and especially those who are jobless. Speaking of unemployed, unemployment is the number one problem facing Serbia. It is certain that this is primarily a question for those who deal with economy and finance and even economic development, in which we can have greater social and economic growth in the coming years, because we cannot take small steps to get out of the crisis. We're in deep crisis. We are far behind in relation to even other countries in the region. One thing is that compared to 1989, we have only 68% of the gross social product of that time. When it comes to industry, only 40%, compared to 1989. Not going into the debate now, because I didn't even want to open that question, who's to blame, what's happened, what's happened, I'm talking about that other countries that have been in similar situations, that have survived wars, crises, they've gotten back to the path of economic development faster than we do. That is why without strong, without fast and high growth rates, we cannot achieve rapid steps towards raising living standards and employment growth. Economists are pleased when we say that this year's gross social product will increase 2%, but 2% for citizens who have the lowest wages on average in the region does not represent any major and significant shift. These are, I'm sure, important questions. The situation must be designed to stimulate the growth of birth, but also foreign investments, the creation of new jobs. I want to congratulate Dragan Markovic, because he is in a relatively small town like Jagodina recently opened a factory that will employ 500 new workers. Today, hiring every new employee is in some way a heroic act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14386	Minister Ljajic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14387	I agree that we should in every way help domestic production, and that is one big problem in general for the whole economy and for Serbia's economy. However, we should also say that we are not alone and that we, in the process of joining the European Union and the process of joining the World Trade Organisation, must adhere to certain rules that apply to all. Let me just say that we must, say, change the Excise Act on Alcoholic Drinks in one member because, according to the World Trade Organisation, we favour domestic producers, where the excise on alcoholic beverages is less than excise on foreign alcoholic beverages. We have to, there's no negotiations. If we want to be part of the World Trade Organisation, that law must be harmonised. We have two other laws that we have to change in that way, literally in one article. So any protectionist measure that would be interpreted in a way that we favor domestic market participants would not be well received. I am in favour of encouraging in every way, helping domestic production in all segments, but also to be realistic, that it must not be interpreted in any way that we bring some market participants into a privileged position in relation to others, regardless of what we prefer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14388	Mr. Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14389	First, it is inappropriate for some MPs to earn when such a serious topic is present and when the Prime Minister and Ministers of the Republic of Serbia are present. That's what I'm told, that when someone keeps throwing and never doing anything, it's called "gibro." I am not satisfied with the answers of either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Trade, simply first to tell Mr. Minister of Trade Ljajic, to visit several markets owned by Slovenians and Croats and in these markets you can see 70% of products that are not from Serbia. They have a privilege when it comes to tax laws in Serbia and on the other hand, to compete with those small shops, family shops, people who have lost their jobs and have nothing else to do but open up a food store, etc. When it comes to the Prime Minister, I just want you to understand what I wanted to ask you, that simply these three questions are very painful at this point for the citizens of Serbia and for the jubilee awards and agricultural producers and the fight against the white plague. We need the Prime Minister to have it on the agenda this year. All the polls say that the biggest problem is that new jobs and the fight against the white plague and that little man called the peasant farmer. If we don't think about them. We know that the difficult situation is and that the difficult situation has been inherited and that the global economic crisis has also caught up with Serbia, which is struggling to make budget users happy and pay in time. But we have to help mothers who don't work anywhere, they have to have the status of those mothers who are employed until a certain period of time, whether when a child is born for three years or five years doesn't matter, but this year and this year it has to come on the agenda. The government must also take care of local self-governments to increase the price of services in kindergarten, as it is also a fight against the white plague. We have in certain cities where a large number of workers are received, and on the other hand, the money collected from children who come to kindergartens goes to those salaries and that's one big problem for parents to pay for what's called... Prime Minister, are you listening to me or what Susan is telling you? Oh, thank God there's only one of the dung-asss here, so that doesn't create a problem. (President: Mr. Markovic, time. You are entitled to two more minutes after Mr. Dacic's reply. ) So, Prime Minister, I really ask you to promise along with the ministers sitting here, of course to inform the first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vukic, when mothers who give birth to children and do not work anywhere can expect, they do not have to receive a salary of 30,000, but let's get 15,000 dinars from the third month of pregnancy and until the child turns two years old. It's not much for the government, and it's a lot in the fight against the white plague.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14390	Mr. Markovic, I have to interrupt you because you've been in the fifth minute, and you're entitled to the Rules of Procedure for three minutes. The next reported one is Konstantin Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14391	Mr. Minister, I have two questions. One is referred to the government or the prime minister, and the other is a matter for the minister of justice. Namely, the Law on the Serbian Army, which entered into force on 1 January, article 193 regulated that the government would find a solution within 90 days to resolve the problem of military pensioners' debt from 2004 to the end of 2007. Meanwhile, two governments have changed and this is the third government. Until then, no solution was made, so pensioners were forced to exercise their right through the court. But there's a large number, about 10,000 people who couldn't finance it and exercise their right to do it. That's why I'm asking this question. Meanwhile, as the problem is, pensioners have passed over to the Ministry of Labour's jurisdiction, and Article 79 has been regulated that the Ministry of Labour is not taking over but remains in the government's jurisdiction. Practically this is a question in heaven or on earth. So I ask the answer, who is in charge, and when will this question be resolved? The second issue is also about the problem of 11.06% of pension coordination. I got an answer from the Justice Department, and I'm pretty pleased in the whole, but I'm not happy with the Justice Court's answer. In fact, the Administrative Court said it is working on a pilot ruling to be considered on 11 March 2013, and today it is March 28th. I'm asking, is that pilot's verdict available to the public? On the other hand, why am I bringing this up? In the explanation of the Administrative Court, it is further said that it is not appropriate to put pressure on the judiciary in this way, which is why the public should not put pressure on and prejudge the decision of the Administrative Court. I ask the question, is the parliamentary question addressed to any authority of pressure, including the court, a pressure on the judiciary? I don't think so personally. On the contrary, it is my desire to resolve this problem and determine who is right. I'm not going to argue that military pensioners are right either, but the Constitutional Court has made a decision saying that pensioners are right and that basic human rights have been violated in achieving what belongs to them under the law. So much, maybe after the comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14392	Thank you, Mr. Arsenović. Who exactly did you ask Mr. Arsenovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14393	I asked the first question to the government because it's unclear who's in charge? The second question is addressed to the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14394	Since the minister of justice is not present, I assume we'll get an answer to this question by written means. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14395	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Presidency, Mr. Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an opportunity for Mr. Dacic for a kind of conversation we certainly need. Although the way we use these poor chances of dialogue, it fits into that atmosphere where you don't like to talk, easily crossing over it with the conclusion that it doesn't matter who's now responsible for everything this society has been through. I, you, believe most of this country don't need reminders, and that's where we'll easily agree on that idea of yours. The problem is that, Mr. Dacic, as leader of your government, along with your government, you are not convincing in the argument that you are trying to explain this great transformation that has apparently occurred. You, Mr. Prime Minister, were in an election campaign, and even after the election campaign, you ran one policy. I don't mean personal relationships, I mean the support you've been looking for in an effort to achieve the goals that are at this point completely contrary to the objectives of your government. I'm not personal, but I think the most picturesque example is the sentence you said right after the election, explaining to us the possibility of our mutual co-operation. That's when you said you wouldn't be making a government for me when my position and the party I represent about what's going on in Kosovo is very well known. You weren't alone in that. In the latest TV duel with Boris Tadic, the current president of the Republic said in his face that he would make a government with the LDP that is ready to sell Kosovo. I have to ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, do we have a government today, or do we not have one? I'll be very clear on that, too. Yesterday, your colleague minister said he wouldn't want it in your skin. We don't like you because of the difficult situation you're in and there's nothing personal about it again. He's in a difficult situation. He's our country. When you mentioned Ahtisaari's plan, I remembered the debate we had here in parliament six years ago. We won't get anything as a party because it's once again confirmed that our society, as well as the leaders, is capable of a later mind. I wonder if there'll be a choice after the Brussels round of talks? If you are confident that you are doing well, will you take Serbia to that election? (President: Time. ) And if you do not do well and fail in these important negotiations, will you open up the possibility that perhaps those negotiations may lead to those who initially knew how wrong the path is that, among other things, you brought Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14396	Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14397	The fact that we have the government also shows that we are here in front of you at full capacity and there will be no choice. The elections are being held when there are problems in the parliamentary majority, or when there is a general social crisis that can only be found in the elections. But it's not the most important question here if there's going to be a choice. I agree here with you in the sense that sometimes some of the statements that are made don't take care enough of the state and national interests that are sometimes more important than our party interests. Not sometimes, but always more important than the party. I don't see why it would go to elections, even if an agreement was reached, even if no agreement was reached. And in particular, I don't see why it would go to parliamentary elections and not presidential elections? In any case, I don't see that there is, I must say quite frankly, President Nikolic has initiated the topic of political talks on KIM. He suggested that I conduct the dialogue. Then we all bear responsibility. If we went this way, then we are all responsible for him, including those who voted in favour of the Resolution and the platform proposed by President Nikolic. I think it's fair and completely open. We didn't discuss it in the ruling coalition. We didn't talk about it because there was no reason. When it comes to policies that are guided by the problems that exist around KIM, I don't see that that's the problem with negotiators. I don't personally negotiate with anyone. I am the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia here. The President of the Republic has proposed that I, as Prime Minister, conduct negotiations, or dialogue. I have no personal reason to be involved in this. I'm against it. I'd have a lot of reasons not to take part in that. But here's the word: Are we going to deal with these questions, or aren't we? Will we, and all those stories about the elections, if you listened well to what President Nikolic, including Aleksandar Vukic, always said that if someone thinks they can do better, that it is not controversial and that it is going to the elections, and not that we will go to elections if something happens or doesn't happen. Besides, I've never heard the government talk about the election, mostly the opposition. What would the government say about the election? But the election isn't a topic. The subject here is much more serious and not short-term. It's caused by decades and centuries of problems that are behind us and I really couldn't, I don't know how much time you're giving me to answer these questions here, because I really can't say what I want to say, because it's a very serious topic, but you all expect me to talk about KIM, in one more serious way than it would be to answer some questions that are always a little more focused on the position of power or opposition. I just want to tell you that the government of Serbia is unique in the policy it is leading, which means that we want to solve the problem of Kosovo, not by handing it over, that we want to solve the problem of KIM because we feel that this is not the case for future generations, not to save them from the suffering, but that every solution that happens after 10, 20, 50 years will be even worse and more tragic for our people than it is now. Therefore, we need to know that we need to do some things for us, not because of the date for negotiations in the EU. You know, I've repeatedly pleaded that every fake play is much better to have a real picture of what's going on, what's our real relationship, what's the real relationship of the power we're fighting in, the real schedule of our friends, our enemies, our allies, and what we can expect. I am not optimistic because I do not see among those who decide a strategic ally with whom you can make a deal that would be in the interest of our people. On the other hand, I'm not optimistic either because Pristina is not forced to compromise, but because I'm not optimistic, it doesn't mean that we won't insist on compromises until the last moment, on what our interest is, and our interest is not to miss one convenient moment, to come up with a sustainable solution, but also to take a few quick steps towards European integration. Rest assured, we won't miss that chance if there is. In doing so, what you're talking about is what you've discussed here and adopted, nothing else has ever been said about the talks and the dialogue in Brussels.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14398	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14399	I suppose you understand, Mr. Dacic, that you've actually confirmed everything I've said. I don't think our biggest problem is that we don't have a strategic partner. I think yours, too, will speak for my party, is a fundamental problem in the fact that there is no, Mr. Dacic, support in our society for what your government must do. There is no such support, because I do not know about European society that would be able to make such difficult decisions as those that Serbian society must make. I do not know that even a European society had so many irresponsible elites and leaders, unscrupulous towards the very society in which they allegedly spoke. We can't help you in any way. Everything we could do, we did by opposing, among other things, your wrong policy, the wrong policy of the current president and all those who today on the side of the watch all that is happening in front of us, much more than the status talks of nine Serb municipalities and the Serb community in Kosovo. This is where Mr. Dacic decides whether our people will have the strength to tear themselves out of that hell that's been disappearing for a century. We have a problem here. I'll tell you, I'll allow myself to perhaps make a mistake, that it seems to me that the President of the Republic is handing over Thaci, that tomorrow he would not give his hand to your agreement with the conclusion that he did everything, and that the other side is not ready for any concession. It seems to me, Mr Dacic, that Serbia is the only country in which the government's reconstruction and emergency elections are being reshuffled from parliamentary ones, and you have mentioned now and the president's, imposes itself on the government, which has not stepped in the second year of its regular mandate, and that is not an accident. What do the messages that others say on your behalf for now, appeal to the largest party in your coalition and its leader, from whom do you expect more support at this time? I mean the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. It is true that you, Mr. Dacic, have the right to describe your gathering as a government, and do you have the same goals? Do you have the same policy? Should you do what no one has done and then think about whether Serbia will go to elections or not, and you should do it through some 21st century Vuk Brankovic? (President: Time. One more sentence, Mr. President. I ask you, why do you participate in something that has been predetermined to fail because of all these facts that I've listed to you and what you yourself have confirmed more or less directly?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14400	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14401	To avoid any dilemma, Aleksandar Vukic has participated in negotiations so far, because no decision has been made without our mutual consultation and agreement. So, between me as prime minister as my deputy, and more importantly the president of Serbia's largest political party, there is absolute unity on this issue and accession, so it will be April 2nd. What decisions we will make, whether together or not, because this is no personal and individual matter, it depends on the future, not just our own, but the future of the whole country, the entire people, perhaps future generations. So, we've talked about this subject twice today. There's not a single point that we're different about. Our approach is to do everything we can to ensure that Serbia is not to blame for the collapse of the negotiations, which should otherwise have been completed at the last meeting, as it was foreseen. Catherine Ashton got up a few times, closed the meeting. I insisted that this be extended, that there continue to be talks. This is a really hard decision to make. We have a decision to make. No one is forcing us to make any decisions, and I absolutely agree with Mr Jovanovic in his assessment and assess what kind of public opinion and even the social climate that exists, which, on the one hand, if you say – I will not be in the EU, tomorrow will accuse you of stopping the European path and economic development of Serbia. If you say - that is why you should accept these proposals and demands; then they will say that you have accepted something that is not fair for this country. You know, when I went to one of these meetings, the message I got from Belgrade after my call to consult -- what to do -- was -- don't take it, but don't say no. It wasn't Alexander Wolf. So, in any case, it's very important to have a cold head in front of what's about to happen, because today we can, of course, have a debate here and I'm trying to make it all a quiet atmosphere, because it's such a tough decision and it's been a tough day, and I don't know what happened to us after those days, a few years after that. After Rambuje, there was a bombing. Maybe something more could have happened in Rambuje. It was after that that Resolution 1244 came, which may have looked good but was read differently, especially not applied. Then came one negotiation, the other, I can't remember when they were right, I think we were in Vienna or something, so we had that plan of ours, I remember that at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, it was -- more than autonomy, less than independence. Over the past two years, these have been led, not to skip the UN General Assembly resolution, where we have actually asked, or proposed that the European Union intervene in these technical negotiations. After that came technical negotiations, where some things we didn't want to accept. The next offer after a year and a proposal and a real situation on the ground has led us to the fact that what you may have been able to accomplish a year ago is now very difficult to realize. That is why decisions will be discussed in the coming days are important. We'll have another state summit session on the subject tomorrow. If you were to ask now that the Assembly is discussing something, we wouldn't have anything to discuss, because we don't have any paper offered as a proposal. Catherine Ashton's system of work is to see what the sides have agreed on. We haven't really agreed on anything yet, except that we agreed to form a community of Serb municipalities and that it should seem, I think, nine municipalities, for the tenth, we still don't know, it's Novo Brdo, do I think, sometimes more Serbs, sometimes more Albanians, but well nine or ten. What are the responsibilities when you go into this topic, immediately exists, Thaci starts saying that he does not want it to be a Serb republic, etc. Last time I threw the local self-government bill at him, because they say they have the law, they can't change the constitution and the law. I said, "Here's your law, go north." Just like I told us to take the Constitution and go to Pristina. It's the reality that exists. We have nothing else to do but make a decision that we made last time, because we haven't changed our mind about it. If anything is made, some compromise solution, surely parliament should discuss it and adopt what we agree. There can't even be any agreement if there's no unity within the government, first of all. Of course, it is also very important for the President of the Republic to be in the process, that he shares that view of the Government, because it is dangerous for cracks to exist in that process. I'm sorry to overstep this time all the time, but the questions are so serious. Now next, Mr Samardzic will speak and he'll be around Kosovo again and I'll probably have to say this all over again. It's hard to stop in a few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14402	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14403	Mr Dacic, all the arguments you have mentioned just prove that you have nothing more to negotiate - and Rambui, and Resolution, and Vienna negotiations, and Ahtisaari's plan, which we have thrown out, and now we would be so happy to take hold of him, so the UN. Something else is the point and that was the question, Mr. Dacic. Are you willing to sacrifice your political position, go to that Brussels? In Brussels, Kosovo is not being negotiated. In Brussels, it is decided on everything that has survived both Kosovo and the Krajina and the 1990s and wars, whether first and second, or not. Both you and I and most of us in this room know that the elections are ahead of us in June or September of the month. So what? Are you going to leave Brussels for the election like you left last time or not? That's what this is about. I'm not judging you for what you're doing right now. It's too late for what's been done right now to talk about it. We owe it to our children and to us, Mr. Dacic, to enable a life that no one here has ever had the right, a little peace and peace, and that policy where you are today, whose center, unfortunately, is talking about a much wider list of priorities than the one I mention to you. It is about your personal willingness to take responsibility with or without Nikolic, with or without your first vice president and leader of the strongest party in the coalition. That's what you need to tell Serbia. You have nothing left to defend in Kosovo. We've lost those wars and battles. It's about Serbia and the right to stand on our feet as they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14404	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14405	Dear MPs, respected members of the government and Prime Minister, the talks that have been conducted so far since the adoption of that Resolution and the Platform on 13 January to date, have shown that they have been led on one topic, which is the position of Serbs in an independent Kosovo. What has so far reconsidered the reality fiction that the West has imposed on us on Kosovo, are Serbian institutions, the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. They are a reality that actually disturbs that picture that says Kosovo is independent. The very fact that you went after the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo to change them, says that you actually fit into this imposed picture of reality, that you're giving up this reality that we have. That's the biggest problem I've ever seen in a conversation. At the end of the line, what I'm talking about, is the rumor that you've even started to use the expression of a parallel institution for the institutions of the Republic of Serbia that operate in Kosovo and Metohija and that are functional, that function well. In the conditions in which they work, they function decisively. So, under the terms of an occupation. My basic question in this regard is -- who gave you the mandate to discuss the position of Serbs in an independent Kosovo, as seen by those who made it as an independent, therefore, Western politics and Albanians in Kosovo? I will remind you of the resolution that you adopted on January 13th, I say "you" because my parliamentary group did not vote for it, that it is in preamble to the 3rd clear position that it says – the starting point for the talks, whether the solution will be general or special, is that the solution is in agreement with the Constitution of Serbia and Resolution 1244. It's written in a place I've listed and written, too, on the platform when it convinces these starting principles. So you did not stick to the Constitution of Serbia or Resolution 1244 in the talks so far. You stuck to the wrong documents, the ones that are not even in that platform, which is the constitution of Kosovo and the plan of Marty Ahtisaari. It was a starting position for both you and the Albanians so far after everything we've learned about your talks, according to how they've all been reporting to us. That's what you didn't say what I said, but it's obvious that you didn't stick to the Constitution or Resolution 1244, because if you did, then you'd be talking about some other topic, not how to make the institutions for Serbs within the Martti Ahtisaari plan that will satisfy them. As you know, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija do not satisfy any institutions other than the existing ones. That's why I asked such a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14406	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14407	A mandate for talks in Brussels was given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through a resolution adopted here by a vast majority of votes. The framework in which our country's negotiating position was moving was contained in the Resolution and the Resolution, which contained the platform proposed by the Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic. The platform clearly lists the basic characteristics of this proposal, which means that we are in favour of a comprehensive solution for the Kosovo and Metohija issue, but if it does not want to discuss status issues and resolving the status issue, that in conditions where Serbia does not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence based on the delegation of powers through the constitutional law to Kosovo institutions, it is possible to discuss the formation of a community of Serb municipalities, which would be a form of autonomy within Kosovo which has transferred competences by the Republic of Serbia. So we never talked, we never negotiated on an independent Kosovo, nor did anyone give us a mandate, nor did we ask for it when it comes to parallel institutions, I never used that term. I was talking about the problem of the parallelism of the institutions, which also stands in the light of the Resolution and the Platform. I urge you to read carefully what you voted for here in the Assembly or what you did not vote for, because it is written so clearly that it mentions that institutions that are acceptable for both Pristina and northern Mitrovica are necessary in Kosovo, and thus for Belgrade, and that it is going to solve the problems of the parallelism of the institutions. I know it's not easy to talk about these topics. Access can be different. I just want to say that I really have no intention of telling stories about Kim, about the real situation, but that doesn't mean I love him less than the fairy tales. I have no interest in not telling the truth and that truth is the basis for everything we do. It's to find a solution. That solution was liked either by us or not here in the country or in the world has to go from a few facts. First, Serbia cannot exercise its power even to apply the Constitution and laws in most of Kosovo's territory. At the same time, Pristina cannot apply in the north either. Serbia must enter into problem solving precisely for itself because a country that does not know where it begins, and where sovereignty ends cannot count on any development, no progress, no future. We are hereby sentenced to a slow and difficult death of our country. We can't run from answering difficult questions. We must not leave it to future generations because these answers will be even more difficult and tragic for Serbia and our people when they are discussed after a certain time. I hope we can live in the future, not die for our country. That is why we need to tell the truth, run a real policy, measure our strengths and all the opportunities that exist, make decisions and bear responsibility for those decisions we make. We need to make it clear to everyone without concealing what Serbia can and can't do and not just talking about a territory whose vast part we don't control, but people who live on KIM. Serbia has the right to fight for it because it is the legitimate right of every country and every nation in the world. We're talking to Pristina today, we're looking for a common solution. Instead of conflict, wars, victims that were in the last centuries, we made one historic step so that everyone could have a future. We are in the Balkans in an incendiary appendix that will either be cured or cut off. It's the cruel reality we live in. Whether we like her or not completely irrelevant. We're willing to compromise, but more than what we've offered and what we've talked about, we've shown readiness for some additional compromises that we would then talk about, we just can't. Humiliation is not the solution. No one has the right to say that Serbia in Brussels refuses something. No, Serbia in Brussels is asking that our people be given the most important and greatest rights that apply everywhere in the world and that every nation has. The right to live, to protect his life and to arrange it. We shouldn't ask for more than that and we shouldn't give less. Serbia has done everything it can to a good degree this time. We'll still do until Tuesday. If Tuesday goes by, we'll do more. We'll be looking for every possible solution. Mr. Jovanovic came out. If his question is whether I am willing to sacrifice my political position – I am and I am not interested in the issue of choice, but we now want to resolve this in one way that will enable us to move forward in European integration and to come up with a sustainable solution that can be applied in practice. I can sign whatever you want in Brussels. If it cannot be applied in Kosovo by Serbs, or Serbs will not, nothing depends on it. That's why ladies and gentlemen, we've done everything. Whether this will be recognised and respected and whether Serbia will be encouraged and supported in its path to the EU is indeed not a question I can answer today. Unfortunately, that answer is being prepared by some others, but it is very important that there is a unique approach here that we are prepared to respect the difficult situation that exists on KIM and to go to difficult compromises. On the other hand, humiliation is not a solution, and if someone expects Serbia to give in at the last minute rather than look at us partners for talks, I think it is deeply wrong. Just as we are not in the interest of reaching a solution that is unfair, we are not interested in delaying the issue of European integration for the end of 2014 or the beginning of 2015. Once again I say we are not doing this for the EU, we are doing it for us. After all, we do everything for Serbia. Our political position is thus irrelevant. I know there's no political popularity on this, but if you're the government, then you have to be responsible for the proposed solutions. In this sense, I repeat, as prime minister and president of Serbia's largest political party, Mr. Vukic, we stand in the same political positions with a desire, hope and fear waiting for April 2nd, not because we fear for our political positions but whether Serbia will be recognised for stepping forward. We can't do any more than this. Ladies and gentlemen, don't think that someone is ignoring the National Assembly in front of these subjects. We are not talking because I think that the time before us will surely require that we discuss this seriously, but as Mr Jovanovic said, there are some things where we can no longer help ourselves, because we are no longer at issue. It's our ability to fight for our proposals. Unfortunately, if Serbia were stronger, it would be easier for us. If our friends were closer, it would be easier. If we had a friend in the West, we probably wouldn't be in this situation. We can all say once again that we don't like it, but we must never interfere with the idea that it's not our role to lead the country into lost battles here, but to find the right solution, to preserve the people and to achieve our national and state interests. Be assured that's the way it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14408	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14409	Mr. Prime Minister, you have repeatedly talked about these noble and final goals to end the problem with Albanians in Kosovo and Kosovo very quickly. This isn't the first time you've talked about it. That's unconvincing. It is inconclusive that this issue can be over quickly and even with some compromise and another unconvinced that you honestly believe it. There is another reason we all know – this speed at which you have come to resolve this issue so quickly actually comes from this EU chasing strategy. Running after a horizon that will never reach and you inherited it from the previous government. There's a basic mistake. So you will solve the problem by handing over Kosovo to receive an EU membership award, and today it is not about membership, but about the date. It's a pro for this explanation of yours. The second question I wanted to ask you is actually about parliament and it concerns your commitment from the Resolution, that you will report regularly, be careful as it says, about the course of the talks, or about the course of the talks, not about the results. I assure you, and I know with confidence that there have been such reasons for this House to meet and there is no better situation to discuss this matter than at Parliament and for the individual phases of the talks. So we had some papers, as you well know, that you didn't expose, but were exposed by the media in Serbia. In fact, what you didn't do is actually a mistake not to do it. You left an empty media space running into the media that was under strong Western control and Western influence and started with forged papers, so Blic and Politics, about what you were talking about. I'm not criticizing these media, they're what they are and they're honored to do so, but I'm criticizing you. If you had made a parliamentary debate and given the MPs the paper you put on RTS yesterday and I think it's authentic, we would have had a healthy discussion about it, we wouldn't agree, but we would have had something to talk about. Take another occasion, for example, to conclude customs duties from January 17th. There's been a lot of public interference about what's been done. You said - it would go to a special account of some bank etc, Thaci said - would go to the Development Fund. When I got that conclusion, I saw Thaci was right. We could have avoided it with a parliamentary debate or, at least, a debate on the KIM Committee. That's what this is about. That media policy of yours is bad, but I think she's deliberately bad. She's bad because you actually have a hidden agenda for this whole conversation. It is still to pick up some crumbs that will be given, and Kosovo will be given for those crumbs. Mr. Prime Minister, I really don't want you to have that kind of success, and I want what the Western factors actually do -- they won't give those crumbs either. And for that reason, on April 2nd, you will have the opportunity to thank each other again, as well as March 20th. And on March 20th, you made a move that opened at least some light in that tunnel. You said this couldn't. For your part, you'll say April 2nd -- this can't be done, but unfortunately, just because it's not even those crumbs you'd agree to if they gave them to you. This is your negotiating problem, the problem of your position, which you are one big thing, such as this problem, were willing to advocate for very little, for nothing, as the Deputy Prime Minister said – they offered us nothing. For nothing, Kosovo cannot be given, nor can it be given for much more important and bigger things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14410	Time. Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14411	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, honourable Members of the People, I address you as a National MP from KIM, more specifically from the central part of KIM, or Gracanica. We Serbs with KIM with special attention, chills and tensions follow the process of KIM negotiations. For us, it's a fateful and life-threatening question. At this time, the KIM Socialists are giving full support to state leadership for the unity of political consensus, historic responsibilities in the struggle to preserve the national state interests of the Serbian people in KIM. Mr. Prime Minister, we are giving you special support, because we are confident in you and we are confident that you will protect both state and national interests, not narrow party or personal interests. When I say that we are giving you full support and that we are safe in you, I want to say that we led you and the PUPS-JS coalition, in last year's parliamentary elections in KIM, won and received voter support. We are aware of the irrefutable fact that the question of KIM is difficult, complex and that negotiations are not easy or simple at all, but that the whole state summit is exposed to a number of pressures from different sides and in different ways. The question of KIM, to be clear, is neither yesterday's nor the present, it's decades and centuries. If we now take, as I did when we adopted the last truce resolution, and if we analyze it, we need a lot of time for that, and that was the 11th resolution, then we ask the essential question – what have these previous 10 resolutions given, what results, in the interest of the Serbs at KIM? There was a lot of information and speculation in the media about what you were negotiating, and what is our Serbian side asking to protect the Serbs at KIM? Could you personally, as chief negotiator, give us some concrete examples and tell us – what would it be like for Serbs living in Kosovo in their daily lives if any agreement was reached on a higher level of jurisdiction for the institutions of the Serb municipalities community? Serbs with KIM thank all those, parliament, MPs and state institutions that are leading the "airy care" of Serbs in the KIM area. I would suggest, since it has been 13 years, it has been 50, 100, 200 years, the life of Serbs in KIM, that we stay in KIM, that we stay in Gracanica, Ranilovo, in Gorazdevec, in Brezovica, in the northern part, for one month to two, and then we give our opinion, because it's easy to talk about here. I ask you three questions, and I think that for the future of the Serbs at KIM they are very important and important areas. My questions are based on this, and these are issues of the personal property security of Serbs in KIM, the issue of the functioning of different authorities of Serb municipalities in the area of the judiciary, police, authorities, health, education and spatial planning. The third issue is the financing of the community body of Serb municipalities of different interests and activities of the Serb population. On the occasion of the first question, in the event of any incident...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14412	Thank you. You'll use that in the next three minutes. Does anyone want to answer? Yeah. ) The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14413	Now we've already gone into the details of that deal. I have to get you back to square one again. All of what Mr. Stevic was talking about, these are all topics on which no agreement has been reached. So, every explanation that this would look like is unilaterally our opinion of what we think it would look like. When we talk about the community, we think that the community should have two types of authority. One is the authority that the municipalities that exist would transfer part of their powers to that community. On the other hand, we think there should be original powers that the central government would transfer to the community. Pristina does not accept that the central government has transferred any serious jurisdiction. On the other hand, what you're talking about, it's primarily about the question, when you talk about personal property security, or security, that's about the police and the judiciary issue. There's still no such thing as here. There is, I have to be honest, there is no question that the structure should reflect the ethical structure of the population, but it is something that already exists as a right. This is about something else, which is the possibility of the community affecting the personnel structure, the personnel who operate the police, the judiciary, the prosecution, etc., and what the authorities of that community would be in those areas. There is now no willingness for Pristina to discuss these topics at all. Neither the concept, proposed by President Nikolic, which was based on exactly what you were talking about, is that these municipalities where Serbs have a majority population, have some of their responsibilities that would allow life to be organised in such a way that Serbs have protection, know who is guarding them, who is suing them, who are suing them, and that they have a specific right, you mentioned, directly financing by Serbia. These are more topics to discuss. Mr Samardzic mentioned the issue of these customs, as he said, and later found Thaci right. Thaci's wrong. Because we have agreed to charge taxes, they are paid into an account that would be opened by the EU in a commercial bank. Pristina authorities do not accept it and ask it to go through the budget. That account hasn't been opened yet. It's because of this different interpretation of the agreement, because one of us agreed with Catherine Ashton, then they went back to Pristina and said that it was not possible under their laws and that it had to go over their account. In fact, Borko Stefanovic knows that, because it was still a topic probably at the time he was talking. So, Mr. Stevic, we know so far what our views are on it. What we're gonna get to and if we're ever gonna get to a deal, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14414	Thank you. Mr. Stevic, supplemental question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14415	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. It's pointless to explain the questions I've asked. You gave answers to what was important, that the citizens of Serbia and KIM knew and that they heard your answers and my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14416	The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14417	Dear Prime Minister, honourable MPs, respected ministers, I will try not to give political speeches here, and I am not giving blanco support to the prime minister until we see what he will do on April 2nd. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, I am speaking to you, since you are the man who currently conducts negotiations in Brussels, as much as you want today to do something to justify sharing a shared responsibility, but all responsibility is on you, and I am very sorry that we have little time to discuss this very important topic today. So I'm going to use these three minutes to ask very specific questions, because from the debate so far, we couldn't find out anything about what was going on in Brussels except that there was no result. No one here today mentioned what's going on in the electricity negotiations, no one mentioned what's going on around telecommunications, no one mentioned when they're going to relive the North KiM Development Fund. What about the liaison officers? Why isn't there a trade? What are the problems? From all that with full rights, Serbs at KIM are confused because they have no real information and what little information they receive from the media is contradictory, both yours and the President of the Republic. So I ask you to be absolutely clear, concise, brief on these questions of mine. I will ask you another question that not only for me but also for the Serbs in KiM want to hear a concrete answer – what is offered on the Brussels paper that was offered to you, although you here today claim that no paper existed, and we all know, MPs and citizens and media who published that paper, of eight dots of eight phrases. They really are phrases. Even what he writes is less than what Ahtisaari offers you. For this reason we want to know if this paper is credible, is it really offered? Secondly, is there a clear plan and strategy in case negotiations fail? I see you've often used a sentence today that you haven't agreed anything, that you're not sure what's going to happen on April 2nd, and that you're going to reach a deal... ( The President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and we all know that if there is no agreement on what the Albanians are up to. You yourself said we don't have friends in the international community, especially those countries that support KIM's independence are ready to do something that can be bad for the Serbs at KIM right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14418	Thank you. President Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14419	I don't know exactly what you asked me in the end. Did you ask me, since it looks like someone in you is fighting on the one hand who would want to criticize something and then finally you say that we all know what's waiting for us if we don't accept it. Then what do you suggest we accept? Or as you have already heard, do not accept but do not refuse. It's easy to talk from the parliamentary bench where you're sitting. I don't talk to Thaci there. I'm talking to almost the whole world. It would be easy for us and Thaci. I have to say, we didn't hide any paper that was actually accepted. Electricity and telecommunications have not been discussed at all. I asked for it to be put on the agenda because one of the points in the EU Council's demands, and I see no one raises the issue. In the end, we get someone to say – you did not do it and we don’t care that you met all the conditions. It's just that the subject is now secondary to them and no one mentions it. Second, liaison officers. It is agreed, as I said, to exchange one liaison officer with the EU mission to Belgrade and Pristina, which do not have diplomatic status. That's a deal. You asked about the Development Fund. It is agreed that what I said, to build a Fund for the Development of Northern Kosovo, which would have an account opened by the EU with three signatories, Pristina, northern Kosovo, the EU in the Commercial Bank, and that what is paid from the administrative line goes directly to that account. However, as with the liaison officer and here when you come, Mr. Stefanovic knows well, and you sit down in principle and when they start to operate on all of this, and he says – we have arranged a liaison officer, but he still has to have an office where he will sit. It's normal to have an office. If he has an office, it's the liaison office. Catherine Ashton says -- no, that's the office where the liaison officer sits. They are trying to use the negotiations to strengthen their independence. As with the fund, they have now concluded that it is legally impossible for something to be paid as a excise to go to another account and that it must first go through this vault to go to the account. Since we disagree with that now it's in one phase of silence. Not even when he mentions it. Now they all base themselves and shifted their attention to the Serb community. It's the current situation that exists in the talks. Like I said, today is not easy to predict what will happen in the coming weeks because I'm not sure how much pressure will be on the other side. When it comes to the paper you were talking about, Catherine Ashton, which I did not propose, means that the EU is intervening. It's a solution adopted by the UN General Assembly. It is not easy for the country that signed the resolution, where it is sought, to now demand to return to the UN. That's impossible. We can think it's possible. You know, there's only one small difference between China and us, and that's one billion and two hundred, 300 million people and a veto in the Security Council. That is why it is not the same when discussing Chinese problems of territorial integrity and sovereignty and Serbian. Catherine Ashton isn't making papers, I've already said that, she's trying to do what we agreed on together. What came out of the media is the paper that Gentile tried to write about what we agreed on, and that's why those phrases, but even those phrases he wrote at the plenary meeting weren't adopted. That paper doesn't exist in a formal legal sense. It was one attempt to recapture what was agreed upon. Otherwise, this paper is absolutely pointless, not keeping any essential things, such as the issue of authority, the question of police, justice, is absolutely one attempt to agree on some frameworks to show that there is some progress. The Pristina side first made objections to such paper. They had objections to what was written, although it was completely pointless on their part. Where did the conversation go? When we say that we think that not only should municipalities have jurisdiction, but the community should also have original competences. We've concluded that it's better to stop, and it will continue on April 2nd. It's bad that now everyone's gonna tell their story, even though we all know who's thinking it. Just be assured that we have no reason to hide everything that is asked of us. There won't be any secret papers, no secret obligations we'd take. We have no reason to hide it all. Besides, you all know our definition. If we can solve this problem in a good way and get an acceleration in European integration, I think it would be a historic success for Serbia. Are we gonna make it? That's a big question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14420	Thank you. The word is Mr. Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14421	There was still paper. No matter what Mr Gentilini wrote that paper, this man is very important in the European Commission, in the EU. We can't look down on it with any disrespect. However, you did explain some things here. From what I understand, there was never a deal about electricity. As I understand it, no deal has even been discussed on telecommunications. The North Kosovo Development Fund, I didn't understand it very well, and I'm afraid the citizens didn't understand it, which is why that fund doesn't work, except you didn't agree that the money paid at the administrative crossings doesn't go through the Kosovo government's budget. If, Mr. President, the international community. The EU accepts the community of municipalities according to our model with all the powers that we are looking for, which we have adopted here in the Assembly, I am interested, not only in me, but also in the citizens of Kosovo, under whose laws will this community of municipalities function? We just heard from you that the state of Serbia cannot operate on the entire KIM territory, nor does its constitution and the law work on the entire territory. You said Thaci couldn't, i.e. Kosovo's laws cannot operate in the north, and on the other hand, Serbian laws cannot be south of the Ibar River. What laws will there be? We need to be absolutely clear and precise. That's what citizens, above all in Kosovo, expect. These are the dilemmas we must remove. That's why we, as DS, were looking for a session to discuss all this. Unfortunately, no one, not just us, but the entire parliament, has honored us to remove the very dilemmas that exist, primarily with the citizens. Obviously, we don't have much time to make suggestions today, to make suggestions, even though no one, at least here I am, or any MPs with KIM, has observed at any stage of the negotiations. If we're... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The previous government, you made that mistake, you were, you know, in the previous government, and you should get rid of it. I'll correct you, Mr. President, there are 10 municipalities in KIM space...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14422	Mr. Bogdanovic, please. Does anyone want to answer? The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14423	I don't know how to answer a colleague from the previous government who was in charge of the KIM issue. I wish he had spoken back then, as he is now saying, but I'm not sure he respected the opposition parties' demands at the time to discuss dialogue with Pristina, I'm not sure that a session of the Assembly has been scheduled to keep them informed. I can only say that, as president of the largest coalition party, I have sometimes not been informed of the moves that have been taken, and I will specifically say about the change of resolution in the UN General Assembly. She was changed overnight. Therefore, I think with all due respect that I have for you, since we have worked together, you are only saying this because you would like one topic, which is popular for you who live downstairs, to ask one rhetorical question – by whose laws. As if you hadn't voted for Mr Nikolic's Resolution and Platform, as if you hadn't read what it says. What are you surprised at now? As DS, it did not lead, and now it is against one such policy and this dialogue being conducted. At least that's how you talk to the Western ambassadors. You're even saying we're better at running your policy than you are. In other words, you submitted an amendment to remind me to return to President Nikolic's proposal that platform, which was in the original variant. It's a political dispute now, and I don't want to sharpen this subject, because I totally understand... I don't know what you're looking forward to with the election. All right, everybody has a right to be happy... (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: and that he is afraid.) )......................................................................................................... And it scares. Since I never looked forward to it, nor was I afraid, so did I, and those who judged it differently passed in the elections. In any case, you should neither underestimate nor overestimate your strength. Who's talking about the election here? What kind of choices are you talking about? You are talking about the election at the moment when the Kosovo issue and the future of Serbia are being resolved. It is irresponsible, unserious, in such a way I do not want to talk on the political scene of Serbia. If anyone thinks that's a good idea... On the other hand, I don't care who talks, I express my political position. If you weren't allowed to say anything to your president, I could tell my President of the Republic and my party president, or myself. This is now a difficult place in our history. Why is it so hard? Because the consequences can be very difficult on one side or the other. If we are now burdening our debate with what will happen to me after this dialogue, so surely I will not be a folk hero because of it, surely no one will mention me for the good, if we agree, and even if we disagree. On the other hand, the largest party in the coalition, regardless of what I am prime minister, will also suffer the consequences of irresponsibility for the policy we are leading, including the President of the Republic, of course. So it's a very difficult time, and if we look at our personal positions, there's absolutely nothing we can do. But are we able to make a decision or unable to make a decision? Because we haven't been able to run the country in all these years, because we haven't been able to manage the processes, not that the processes run us, we've come to a situation that we have less and less to discuss every year. We had principles, we had a lot of initial principles at the beginning, now as it goes, and the red lines, and our principles are smaller and weaker and the red lines are getting pale. I'm afraid, if we continue like this, and especially if what Mr. Bogdanovic was talking about is a very serious thing because he said that we all know what Pristina is up to. We know what Pristina is prepared for, but it is an obligation to act more responsibly towards our people, not to burn and oil drums, and then leave them at bay. That's why it's a big responsibility, and I don't think it's just the government's responsibility, I think it's the moment that the whole society should be saying what they're thinking about this. No one has the right to say now – I don't care, I do now, neither do I, tourism, or I don't know what problem in Serbia, everyone has the right, everyone has the obligation to answer this question. Because if that's personal questions to each of us, no one's going to solve it. That's why I'm grateful to Bogdanovic for asking all these questions, because it's very important to know a lot of information about all this. Why isn't the fund formed? Because the Serb will not go over Kosovo's budget, that is the basic reason, and Pristina will not agree otherwise, although it has agreed to it in Brussels and that is now the main reason why the fund is not formed. It has nothing to do with us. Serbia has fulfilled everything it has taken on itself as a commitment, at least since the time I took part in it, and I suppose it has been so before, because it has always been a problem for half the solutions that each later interpreted in its own way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14424	Thank you. Mr. Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14425	Mr. Prime Minister, I really didn't ask the question – when there will be elections, but I asked concrete questions about KIM. You know who's talking about the election. That's what the president of Serbia says, Mr Nikolic. You know who's looking for a change of prime minister. Mr. Stefanovic, President of the Assembly. Therefore, DS is not involved in all this, although we want elections, we want this and this non-serious government to be replaced as soon as possible. I'll just remind you, I started a little while ago, to know, it's a very important thing, there are 10 municipalities in KIM with the Serb majority, not nine, but ten. Novo Brdo, Mr. President, for your information, according to Ahtisaari's plan, since the borders have changed, there are now 70% of Serbs, 30% of Albanians, as villages from the municipality of Gjilana are included, from the municipality of Kosovo Kamenica. Please, it's very serious stuff. It is not by chance to mention nine municipalities, because northern Kosovo Mitrovica, according to Ahtisaari's plan, is not treated as a special local self-government, but has slightly greater powers than the local communities, according to Ahtisaari. I know you're skillful to bridge, especially in situations like this... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to charge anything and anyone, but rest assured, my statements and my actions around KIM have not changed since 2001 until today... (President: Thank you, Mr. Bogdanovic.) )......................................................................................................... Unlike, maybe, from some others.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14426	Thank you. The word is given by MP Bojan Jakovljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14427	The information works, just to say that it's simply not true that not all relevant factors on KIM have been informed. Always, after every negotiation, Mr. Vulin is on KIM within two days, so that's what the public does, I have to say. This year, on March 23rd, a delegation composed of Oliver Ivanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Randel Nojkic, Petar Miletic and Dejan Radenkovic, was in Brussels and had a meeting with Mr Jelko Kacin, who later declared that this delegation supported, on behalf of the Serbs with KIM, the Ahtisaari plan which, to remind me, was not accepted either by this Assembly or by the UN, and since the presidents of the four municipalities from the north of KIM have been fenced by the views of this delegation, I am asking you a question, President. Who authorized this delegation to go to these and these negotiations? Secondly, is it true that this delegation has accepted Ahtisaari's plan, as Mr. Kacin said? Under three, who was carrying the cost of leaving this delegation for this meeting? Prime Minister, it's a question for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14428	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14429	I really don't know who was carrying the costs, nor does the Serbian government have any connection to the organisation of this event. As far as I'm aware, it was preceded by a certain conference held in Istanbul, which included other MPs from all parties. I don't know who he was, really. It was Dejan Radenkovic, I don't know about the other details, that's the thing that you should discuss here in the Assembly. The Serbian government has nothing to do with it. In any case, Ahtisaari's plan, as you know, Serbia has not accepted. There are two things that neither the UN has accepted. Americans say there is an allergy to 2A, Albanians have an allergy to autonomy, and Serbs say they have allergies to Ahtisaari. So I don't think that information can be absolutely accurate, that the delegation has accepted Ahtisaari's plan, nor does anyone ask them whether they will accept it, nor does it matter what they say, that it will affect Serbia to accept Ahtisaari's plan, with all due respect to members of the delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14430	Thank you. Do you want to ask an additional question? (No) The word has a people's messenger, Zechariah Trnavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14431	Mr. Prime Minister, on a proposal from the Farmers' and Businessmen's Movement "God of Serbia", you accepted August of the month, and signed a decision on 2 September to appoint the National Agrarian Council. Since then, in six months, have you, Mr. President, detached your own decision, withdrawn it? I ask you this because Vice-President of the National Agricultural Council Danilo Golubovic, State Secretary, boycotted the work of this council, in which the Vice-President appointed some kind of advice, to whom he was tasked to write what we had already done by September, which is the draft strategy for the development of the agrarian until 2037. Please answer me if this decision of yours has been in effect since 2 September, on the formation and appointment of the National Agricultural Council? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14432	Thank you. The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14433	Yeah, he's in effect. I'll see what's going on, whether there's any problems or what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14434	Here you go, Mr. Trnavci.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14435	There are big problems. That boycott of him and coaxing other members and sowing suspicions of whether or not we are needed at all, etc. It led to a serious stalemate. This document, which you will receive, I hope by the end of April of the month, in the final final text, could have been quite earlier. However, in this country time is not appreciated at all as one general good, but is allowed to run in disputes, disagreements, etc. In addition, Mr. President, I must tell you that as an executive of your decisions, until today, the Secretary General of the Government has not found two rooms for the address and headquarters of the National Agricultural Council, nor have members of the National Agricultural Council received a written solution to justify official travel from Novi Sad to Belgrade, etc. Therefore, please, Mr. President, give the Secretary-General, Veljak Odalovic, a warrant to find two offices for the accommodation of the National Agricultural Council and to send solutions to all members, so that they can fully continue and complete this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14436	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14437	The President-in-Office, honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question that may be a little bit more life-threatening, and it is a little less epic and celestial, since we have been mostly dealing with this Kosovo issue so far. I would like to ask the health minister's question, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, a little prime minister to get a break, as everyone is mostly asking him, and in my opinion, rather alarming situations related to our health system. Last year we were rated last on the 34-European country ranking, by 42 criteria compared to Serbia's health system in Europe. Bulgaria is the last, and we are absolutely the last. In the past few months, more cases have occurred in Serbia that people are forced to carry out humanitarian actions, that they have to depend on whether they know an estranged person, so a concert or not will be organised, they have to practically depend on whether they know someone in some informative houses. Some of those cases, as you yourselves know, I don't want to mention names, have ended badly, tragically. What is extremely important to me, that is to ask you -- is there, first of all, an institution in this country that can organise an analysis of a case and send someone abroad for treatment, a transplant, if you suffer from a rare disease, that you don't have to depend on charity, or is there a Republic Health Insurance Fund that deals with such matters? This country pays a lot of things, not to mention, from Miladin Kovacevic to planes for Hague indictees, football clubs, etc. I think that this question would finally have to be resolved systematically and that the system responds quickly, that if you suffer from something that cannot be cured in Serbia or you need to be on a list somewhere else, that that's what happens, not that we have cases like this. Every week we have some humanitarian action and people are constantly talking to for help, after all, and to the government, but we see that these cases end badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14438	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14439	I also thank you for the opportunity to explain in this higher home how much donation is really necessary for the authority of a country in solving the problem of transplants. There are 80,000 donors in our country right now. There are close to two million in Croatia. And for those transplants for which, though, we have expert personnel and space, but we haven't organized them, the problem is donorism. In large European and world centres, we would be happy to be seen without dinar participation with our patients if donations were higher. Of course, in every society, even with us, the slowest changes are people's minds, but I think we have taken steps on the importance of donorism and that the Ministry, and more importantly, a large number of NGOs, the media of educational and all other institutions and prominent individuals, is working very correctly on it. What's the fact, it's that there's a regulation, that's brought by the Republic Health Insurance Service, about sending patients to treatment outside the country. But it's also a fact that we don't have one patient with the same diagnosis and that very expensive interventions, which, unfortunately, sometimes only can save lives, should be provided abroad without discrimination. In that sense, Serbia, in which 250 euros goes to the head of the population for all health needs, and in Croatia it is about 750 euros, really is very, very bad. The status of financial repairs, on the one hand, is for health reasons and how it is related to the country's economic position, and on the other hand, it is extremely important that we improve our credibility and reputation in the world, to ensure that our patients can be transplanted in the most modern and technologically equipped centres, i.e. to perform these interventions, by increasing donorship. I call on all citizens to think about it, all MPs to think about it, fully aware of the fact that we are equally grieving and compassionate with families that are impossible to help in this economic situation, and compassion is just one human trait that should simply stimulate us to take practical steps. The Director of the Republic Health Insurance Office has expressed our common position. We are a country with extraordinary professional potential, spatial potential and we need to develop transplant surgery in our country. During that time and until we do, and then there will be a donor problem, too, because you can fully train the team, and that there are not enough suitable donors, remains a major problem of awareness of donation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14440	Thank you. Mr. Stojsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14441	Since I come from Vojvodina, but this is a topic that really shouldn't be burdened with where it comes from, or who's a member of which political parties. It's an extremely bad situation, just to say that there are two million people with two radiation devices, that you have practically one magnetic resonance in Sremska Kamenica, of course you have private ones, but if you go to a private person, these videos don't mean much to you. You have a total of one "five" scanner, two million residents, etc. The Institute of Sremska Kamenica was formerly part of a health system that was built and real in Vojvodina. I mean, as far as this sector is concerned, a certain level of reform and decentralisation would be desirable. My colleague Olena Papuga also asked a question from your domain, but at least as far as the people we have contact with and what's going on in Vojvodina, the health situation is quite alarming. Of course, the problems have arisen over decades, you've only been here for a few months, but I think it would have to be an urgent approach to much more serious reforms in the health system. Unfortunately, we have a situation in the media to see every few weeks or months what happens when that system doesn't work. My suggestion is that it would still be necessary to form some kind of fund at a level, whether your ministry, etc., which, although we don't have donors in the country, although we don't have therapy in the country to react quickly and that people can be sent abroad and that these separations really wouldn't be something that's not on the list of priorities when the budget is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14442	Thank you. Minister Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14443	I fully agree with all of your findings, but I would like to say that in these few months the funds that have actually been frozen for seven years have been used and with 30m euros the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad will be assisted in terms of space, because this is what the Secretariat has assessed as its priority. So, seven, eight years of doing the project, even though we had the funds that were standing, and here, in these few months we've brought the projects to an end, we plan this year that if the dynamics are as agreed with the regional secretary, they get those funds and they're invested in space. On the other hand, you are absolutely right that we are not satisfied with the degree of technical equipment and is not perfect, but in relation to other parts of Vojvodina and the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and Kamenica, they have quite correct equipment, but that does not mean that from the means that we are planning, which is 10 million, a significant part will not go to these two large institutions. Also, I would like to tell you that all the requirements and priorities that appear to be in the healthcare sector come under the proposal of the Regional Health Secretariat, because it is in line with the acts that this assembly has actually given its consent to.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14444	MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14445	Mr. President of the Assembly, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, my question could most directly be addressed to Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, but today, unfortunately, he is not with us, but I believe that among the ministers present there are those who can answer this question. I come from Vrnjaka Banja, a tourist resort that has long been valid for the queen of continental tourism. We are witnessing that recent years have invested quite a bit in new tourist resorts, in new tourist centres, were millions of Euros, which is, of course, commendable. My question is – will the government allow Vrnjaka Banja to be forgotten and not be found anywhere in Serbia's tourism development strategy, and has been valid for the time being for number one, on the number of nights registered? So when we add up all the other centers, Vrnjaka Banja is in front of everyone, there was only the city of Belgrade, but probably because of the capacity that the name is. So my question is concrete – will it, when and how much will be invested in Vranjska Banja in the next period? If we don't, Vronjačka Banja will suffer a fall, as the Serbian peasant experienced after this affair with aflatoxins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14446	The government has informed me that you will receive an answer in writing. Mr. Ilic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14447	Because Mladjan Dinkic is not here. I recently visited Vranjska Banja, the other day, you may have found out about it. She had the works that were done and they were financed from the help of the building. Encourage the construction industry. I can tell you that the other day the last bills were paid. It's all paid up and you've entered the Milan Edict program and you've still got some work to do. Your performers don't have any more situations ready, everything you do, I met with them, and they promised to start the work as soon as the weather was better, it'll be paid. The funds are fully secured. Two, there's one bridge that's at stake. It's agreed to end. A series of projects you've started, they've all been paid so far. The last project was paid the other day. So you're working on that program that was adopted. You'll get paid and the next projects as soon as the first situations arrive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14448	Mr. Vujic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14449	I certainly thank you for your response, but regardless of being a national MP, I try to spend all my free time in Vranjska Banja, in conversations with citizens and in active participation in the conduct of local authorities. What I know so far is that we have been granted one collection of about 150 meters long and whose investment is 4 million dinars or 40,000 euros. I was specific in considering when Vrenjačka Banja will be respected as some other tourist resorts, since unlike others, we have 144 years of tradition of organised tourism. These 4 million dinar investments that are certainly welcome and we thank them are not enough to launch Vrnjaka Banja so that we can stand side by side with serious European tourist centres.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14450	The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14451	You've been offered a sports hall project, it's over. You've offered a project of access, a traffic station, a turnabout and everything you wanted to finish, and it's over. The reconstruction of the entire park, there are works in progress, will be completed very soon. You have some other projects you've brought. I hope everything you've brought has been fulfilled. I expect you to bring new projects these days and compete with the Ministry of Tourism and, of course, for the municipal and for the help of the construction industry. So, just save the projects and everything will be fine, just bring the projects. I repeat, no project you have brought has been rejected, all completed. The question remains of the dump, you know it. There must be a minister. It's a question you have to solve because you're a tourist center that can't have such a resolved question of municipal waste. I'm sure they'll be working on it. The access roads across Dragosinac, Gochu, it's all over and you asked for it. Therefore, prepare new projects and there will be no problem. I repeat, your president knows all the projects he's brought in, they've been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14452	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14453	I really don't want to contradict you for what you're saying, but I wouldn't be asking this question today if the situation on the ground wasn't a little different. We at this point almost in most ministries have run-for projects. What you just said was old debts that were settled against the people who were doing the work, and these are projects that, say, you were talking about the sports hall it was done in 2006, 2007, 2008. My question is whether the projects that we now have, so the ministries don't only refer to your ministry we can expect to get them in a short time. First of all, because we are a tourist resort, because we represent all of Serbia. We have more foreigners which is good than in all other tourist centers. So, I don't want anyone to get me wrong, but Vrnjaka Banja cannot allow us to rank with other places with similar population, because she is still a representative of Serbia in tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14454	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14455	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, and members of the government, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, my questions concern the country's security system in a broader sense, so it is logical that they are addressed to the prime minister, namely the interior minister and the defence minister and the country's security coordinator. I will start with a very specific question -- how many people are provided today in Serbia without having the functions that are protected by the law of the state. The criteria under which these state entities protect the duration of their security until year or more, how much does the state cost their security on average, monthly and total yearly? According to what I know, some of them have been under that security detail for years that costs pepper. I'm not sure, and I'd like to know how much the authorities are questioning, whether there are objective reasons for such a thing in such a long time, and as far as I know, some of them are sitting here in the Assembly, and they're not being provided as MPs, and some of those people are being provided in the country, and by what I'm doing when they go abroad, they're out of security, probably those who want to deprive them of their lives are only interested in the land they're not. The second question, when will it be approached and whether innovation, i.e. upgrade, will be updated by a national security strategy that would include coverage, i.e. commitment to an adequate arrangement of all elements and participants in Serbia's security system towards the current national security strategy. We have, in the context of this, declared the current security strategy as elements of the security system, all entities in the area of private security. It's working, and I'd like to know the exact details. I know it's about tens and tens of thousands of people under arms within agencies and other security entities and what's even worse for the security of this country is a large number of these agencies of water and the owners are foreigners and these people under arms are in fact, so to speak, under the command of foreigners in our country. (President: Time, Mr. Kovacevic. I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14456	Does anyone want to give an answer? Yeah. ) The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14457	In order to obtain the status of a person provided by the MUP, there is a need for an assessment of his threat, with the exception of the MUP and the security services, civil, BIA or military security services. Also, there are a number of people who are provided by official duty. So based on the function he's doing. Of course, during the last period, there was a real flood, so to speak, a profession and a person wanted by police security, which creates really big problems in our ministry, primarily because of the great costs that are being incurred in this way, because of the busyness of all resources available for security, which is being achieved through the police department's administration, but other administrations and services in police. When we add to that the security of military service, BIA, etc. I'm sure that number's pretty big. When it comes to persons provided by the Department for the Security of Personalities and Objects at the MUP, that number is based on data from the other day 58. When it comes to the second issue, private security, the national security strategy has defined that as well as other areas, there is one partnership between the state sector, those state institutions dealing with security issues and the private security sector. In view of what you said, Mr Kovacevic has tens of thousands, and some say 100,000, there are more in the private security sector than are within the state or the MUP. This implies that there is a clear strategy of what kind of partnership exists between these two sectors and whose role and, of course, the licensing system is. We had passed these laws in the assembly procedure, the law on private security, even I think it was handed over to the law on detective activity, so it was returned from procedures because of various objections, because it's impossible to satisfy all structures, because everyone here has some interests, but it's really very important to regulate this issue in this year, because it's a practice everywhere in the world and we used to have one approach that practically was, as I would say, jealous of some others who start dealing with security issues. On the contrary, I have agreed to form a municipal police force, because I think it's good for the police to free themselves from doing some of the jobs that, like removing a kiosk, illegal objects, I don't know either, moving out of the apartments, and so on in this case. In many countries, the director of the FBI told me that there are 16 to 17,000 different security entities in America. That is why it is perfectly logical for us to be part of it, that what exists as a national security strategy is applied in practice, that is, to pass the relevant laws. I'm going back to that first question you asked, on the one hand, the MUP can't say when someone comes to security, that we don't care, because we have a responsibility if something happens, and yet there are sometimes public criticisms about why someone has political security, why there isn't. We, as you know, offered it. I think almost all political party leaders have police security. I'm talking about parliamentary parties, with Mr. Markovic and Mr. Kostunica not having police security, but he has a place of residence. I don't think it's bad, I think it's good because it shows one responsible relationship with everyone, whether they're in power or in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14458	Thank you. The word is Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14459	Mr. Prime Minister, part of the answer I got. I'll be free to deliver the question in writing, I know you can't give up all those numbers and data today, but it would be very good to know all that information in the Assembly. In addition, there is another area within the security system that is a element of the security system, highlighted in the National Security Strategy, which is the media. And nothing further has been said about it. About their role. About their obligation, etc. When I put it together, without anyone thinking I blame the media for it, but probably forced by an economic situation, by fighting for circulation, etc. They act the way the media behaves, of course some less, so we don't talk about it. However, this country has been in a situation long time ago, and it is increasingly in a situation where it as a state has no more secrets. In the good part. I'm not accusing the media, but from this struggle, in the good part of my efforts to secure the circulation and they contribute to it. Take your lands. There if something at the state level is declared closed, secret, the media doesn't attack it. I'll just give you an example to set up a hypothetical situation. Tomorrow, if this assembly were to consider the far closed problem of the state and the Assembly held a closed session, you would have a terrible attack, you would have a stampede press to find out what it was about. Instead of having a press that's organized and brought up so that if it's a state secret, that's not the point. Just one thing, just one of the things I have in mind, and there's a lot of it. So if someone's in the security system, they have to act safe. I don't see that there's that kind of behavior around here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14460	MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14461	Thank you, Mr. President, Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Just for a little while, to answer Mr. Jakovljevic because the visit to the European Parliament was enough in the media, and also because of counterpart Dejan Radenkovic, it is difficult for him to do so. I'm used to getting questions like that. And Mr. Dacic was brought into an awkward situation, responding to something I don't know. No one was a member of the government for the government to have anything to do with it. There's no assembly. There was a meeting in Istanbul organised by the Centre for Inclusive Management and paid for those meetings, and there were dozens so far, the Swiss foreign ministry. That's the answer to who paid for Istanbul and the trip to Brussels. The meetings call for Serbs from Kosovo. And it's the only place Serbs from Kosovo have been discussing each other for several years. They're fighting, the ones from the south, the ones from the north. So that activity led Serbs to have and try to have a common position. The Albanians also occasionally participate. They took part in Istanbul, if you're interested. There were also representatives of your parliamentary group. The representatives of all parliamentary groups usually participate, except for the DSS at these meetings. In Istanbul he was from yours, even a senior government official was in Istanbul. Since meetings are held according to rules where no one should say who was and what he was saying, I'll respect that. It's clear who paid. The answer to Brussels. We were there not with Jelko Kacin, but with a working group of MEPs in charge of Southeast Europe. The full-time task force was here at the Assembly of the Committee on European Integration at the end of last year. The president of this task force is Kukan. We were at his place. They were here in parliament. So if you think it was treason, then this is treason. If that's the question. And because me and Radenkovic accept Ahtisaari's plan, it may be significant, more significant than Serbia has rejected or the UN, but when Dejan and I accept it, it means that it will be applied. I'm kidding. Let me remind you about Ahtisaari's plan. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Dacic. The LDP supported in principle, as a good basis for the negotiations six years ago, Ahtisaari's plan. Now, Mr. Prime Minister says, unfortunately in southern Kosovo, most of Kosovo is not fully realised. That's right. If you were a government, not only you, but since you were in the previous one, it goes again to you, if you had kept in touch with Serbs from Kosovo, the real representatives of Serbs from Kosovo, both those who are institutions, so to those who are not, and not just from the north, you would know why they are not respected, and perhaps with the help of Belgrade, that plan might be fully respected. Now let's get back to the question. Mr. Dacic, we don't want to put salt on your wound, we absolutely understand your situation, but I'm telling you, we need to know what we're talking about there. I'll only quote one sentence from the Russian ambassador's interview. (President: I ask you very briefly, since we are already at the end of the fourth minute. ) He says Moscow is in constant contact with Belgrade and is fully familiar with all the nuances of the negotiations. That's the details. You brought us some today. If we had met regularly, we might know what to support, in which direction to criticise, etc. However, the fact is that we learned from the press, while we see some others learn from personal contact. We are MPs, however, to inform ourselves of such important things from the newspapers, and besides that, the Resolution obliges you to inform us at least the way Thaci does it in his parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14462	Thank you, sir. I'll stay. Mr. Dacic, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14463	I'll just repeat once again that it seemed like eight encounters, right, with Thaci with Catherine Ashton's intervention. At the five meetings, the topic was to implement the previously agreed, i.e. the implementation of those agreements that were previously agreed. The last three meetings began to discuss this topic. That means from, I mean somewhere in mid-January. Everything that we talked about, that is, the framework in which we were moving, is contained in the Resolution, that is, the reasoning of this Resolution, that is, that concept that went the way. The concept has occupied even EU representatives so much that we no longer discuss any other topic only on the Serb community. I mentioned at one point, well, if you don't want a community of Serb municipalities, let's go back to those conditions that we have as the Council of the European Union set up, as someone mentioned earlier, I think Bogdanovic, energy, telecommunications. No, they're not going back to that right now. They liked this idea. Why did they like it? Because that's where Pristina sees the likely possibility that the Serb community might actually be something, but nothing at all. That's his name, but he doesn't have any more serious powers. I have repeatedly cited the example of the Duke who has his own government. I also cited examples of other autonomys across Europe that have different types of autonomy, regions, etc. There are more than 200 in Europe. It's just not acceptable for them. Even some Western countries, not perhaps openly, say they cannot be executive powers, which are phrases and nonsense, because each municipality has executive powers. So that's not what this is about. They fear it will be a parallel system of authorities and constantly mention the Republika Srpska. It's easy for Thaci to inform, because he's nothing new... They make all decisions unanimously because they simply try to implement everything they already write. The highlight of their compromises is whether they will give regional commander Eulex, which you know, which you have now mentioned Ahtisaari's plan, I think even mentioned the possibility of some regional or so. We are trying not to speak in legal and political categories that they can make and which can cause mutual interference, which means that we are not talking about where jurisdiction comes from now, whether there are executive powers or not, but rather about what this community could do in fact, and that Serbs who work there and what is being established by the community are in order to preserve and demonstrate a specificity, i.e. our identity in Kosovo and Metohija. Bojan had discussed it a little while ago. Bojan was with me. I'll only mention one example. We are at that third meeting backwards if you watch, so in January, we talked and agreed to form a community of Serb municipalities and then we agreed next week to hold a meeting of experts and political experts, so to speak, who have some political weight and discuss the contents of that community with the intention of having the next meeting ready, so that we know if we can agree on anything. On our part, Marko Djuric, Vulin, Zorana Vlatkovic and Bane Mitrovic from the MUP and on their part led Edita Tahiri. I've met Thaci eight times. That meeting started with Edith Tahiri talking about genocide. The conclusion of this expert meeting was that they couldn't agree on anything, but Thaci and I need to make a deal. Can you imagine what that's like when you're not at that level of expertise? It's all actually a political story. That's why it's a good thing there's no paper, so now you have to accept it, but on the other hand it's bad, because we don't. In fact, if you're waiting for us to make a deal on something ourselves, the question is, what's all this going to come up with? I can't tell you what it looks like. I tried to introduce it to people from the EU. Where you talk, most of all you talk about in Thaci and me, two translators, Katherine Ashton and Gentilini. When I go out to the other members of the delegation, we look at me, just to ask if you signed something or didn't sign it, and if I didn't sign it, it's a general joy. In these social conditions, conversations are being held. It's objectively real. I thank and accept responsibility in the sense that it may have been possible to talk, but that debate would be only political nature and would have no concrete conclusions to say we have something, so we plead whether we accept or reject it. I am pleased with the current debate, regardless of the questions being asked, because I think we have taken this problem seriously and the atmosphere itself in the congregation shows that everyone is aware of the weight of this problem. That's why I thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14464	Thank you. Now it's been three hours. I'll allow Mr. Ostojić the right for three minutes, and then I'll finish my work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14465	I understand your answer. You're saying the resolution doesn't have any papers, what can we talk about? Thaci says Kosovo's constitution has no papers, so he's talking. The details, at least the ones the Russian ambassador says, nuances, here. I believe that everyone is an interesting part of what they've heard about the details. How will you get public support if the public doesn't know what's going on and where's it going? That was my principled objection. On the other hand, the fact is that neither has the government kept in touch with the Serbs in the institutions either. The fact is that your deputy, whom the President of the Assembly did not read as one who would not come, and I did not see him this morning, and this morning I said that Vukic would not appear and, as you can see, I was right, so far he has not participated, or if he participated once he did not say anything. Mr Dacic, you know that Prime Minister Thaci has led the last one, two or three meetings and participated in his deputy prime minister Petrovic, which he promised to see six months ago, resulting in your government's objective position and your position. That's why at first I said we understood your situation. If you think this is a representative of your government, then so be it. So I ask you, since you said there would be no choice, and Nikolic talked about the elections and how much I understood him, he talked about parliamentary elections and I don't know how Nikolic can be forced to go to the presidential elections, but I know how they can reach parliamentary elections. That's a lot easier, right, since you say there won't be a choice. Answer only two questions: What is the purpose of your government if we do not get a date for the start of negotiations and no agreement is reached with Kosovo? Does the economy have a booming state, a dinar stronger, a euro weak, foreign investment bloated, etc.? It's not. It's all bad. Why would this government continue to exist in circumstances where the man behind you, the president of the assembly, in the reconstruction of the government mentions a new prime minister? As far as I know, reconstruction involves changing some ministers, and the new prime minister means a new government. Answer me, is it your desire to reconstruct the government, since I have not heard you talk about it so far, or have you not spoken about it before your coalition partners opened the issue, including the change of prime minister, because usually the prime minister is reconstructing the government? Is the government's reconstruction something to come as, you say, a substitute for elections that won't happen? Remember the answer to that question – what is the purpose of the further survival of the government if no agreement is reached, because in fact then we will remain without normalising relations with Kosovo? Serbs from Kosovo will be damaged, and Serbian citizens will suffer a serious defeat due to their failure to get a date, that is, the policy of your government. With two defeats, I don't see the meaning of the further survival of this government, especially in the circumstances of the inner that we see best by looking at this picture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14466	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14467	I never thought I'd answer again, but it doesn't turn out that I won't answer this issue of Ostojic. The issue of government reconstruction has not been the subject of our talks in recent weeks, because we have dealt with other issues. Otherwise, if you remember, I was the first to talk about the government's reconstruction in terms of the entry of some more people from certain areas, which did not come across the great approval of some coalition partners, and not SNS. Anyway, there were different ideas, and I don't see any question about it. Just as it is true that we have never discussed the subject of the election, of the change of prime minister, which is all possible to discuss, but then it is not the reconstruction of the government, but rather the choice of a new government. In any case, it's not good for it to be a subject that we only deal with in public, because it's illogical and unserious, because we have to take on a number of obligations that we have around the world. You go and talk, and you always need someone to ask you-- do you have a mandate, if you can, whether you'll be in a year, or in six months and so on. In that sense, I would also like to say publicly that we have no issues as questionable as the Government. I think all decisions in the government have been made unanimously since the government was elected. Surely, in the day-to-day political matters, there are also issues that we differ and think about, which is also normal, because we also think we would not be in different parties, but there was no difference on strategic issues. That's why I don't see any reason to talk about elections now, even if it's going to the polls, that's not what we're talking about when important decisions are made. Should the government survive if we don't reach a solution or we don't get a date? You know what, you may be right on the one hand, but on the other hand I have to tell you openly, honestly, a little bit of what other government has a chance to come to that solution. Because it would practically mean that Serbia shouldn't even have a government. That's how it really confirms our past. Because it's hard for someone better than me to blame for national treason, unlike some others who had to take care of their political ratings to make such difficult and dramatic moves or President Nikolic, or SNS President, Mr. Vukic. That's why I don't think it's an important question for the election. It is an important issue for Serbia, and elections are a second-rate issue at the moment. So at this point, I can't tell you what's going to happen next week, except that we're going to do everything we can to get the best we can for our country and our people. Believe me, if we fail, it means, not that we didn't want to or that we couldn't, but that we couldn't. The big question is, will anyone ever be able to do more than that? We all have to be aware of that. I thank you and apologize if I've been longer than what you've given me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-28-0.u14468	Thank you. Since we have completed three hours of asking questions to government members, we are finishing today's work. I thank you all for your participation. Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the session, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since today is Tuesday, based on article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs, have the right to request information and explanations. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Elvira Kovac.
