ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27319	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Based on article 27, I'm setting a break of an hour. We continue work at 12.15 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dijana Vukomanovic, Stefana Miladanovic, Miletic Mihajlović, Dubravka Filipovski, Cedomir Protic, Gordana Komic, Olena Papuga. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Proponent Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Dr Danilo Nikolic and Neđo Jovanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Ljiljana Blagojevic, Jovan Ćosic and Zlatko Petrovic, Assistant Minister, Head of Department and Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue the work and move on to the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Mujo Muković, Srdjan Miković, Riza Halimi, Cedomir Protic, Stefan Zankov, Zoran Angelkovic, Bojana Djordjevic, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljević Bošković, Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic, prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić, Bajro Gegić, Enis Imamovović, Radoslav Komlenović, Mirna Kosanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Teodora Vlahović, Dragan Marković, Petar Petrović, Nevena Stojanović, Vojislav Vujić, Zoran Vasić, Mr Djordža Kosanić, Zlata Djerić, Aleksandar Senić, Dubravka Filipovski, Arsenović, Laslo Vargović, Balit Pastor, Elvira Ković, Bojan Kostreš, Milica Drobnjak, Srđan Spasojević, Zradan Pek, Mirko Fravić, Hrović, Hrović, Hrović, Hrović. Dr Zoran Radovanovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Slobodan Samardžić, Milica Radović, Marko Milutinović, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petković, Sinisa Kovacevic, Bojana Bozanić, Gorica Gajic, Milica Vojić Marković, Milan Lapčević, Jovan Palalić, Dušica Morčev, Miroslav Petkovic, Donka Banović, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Srdjan Dragojevic and Slavica Saveljic, as well as amendments to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Gover. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27321	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I see that both the Government and the committees have not accepted my amendments, which brings to a rather difficult position the citizens of the Bujanovac municipality and especially the municipalities of Presevo. This continues with discrimination against Albanians in this area, in Presevo, in Bujanovac and in Medvedja. The Bujanovac municipality had a misdemeanor court. It is now ranked in the ranks of a large number of municipalities that have a division of misdemeanor courts, which are less than the Bujanovac municipality up to four times. There are 10-12 thousand municipalities, and they are in the same rank as the Bujanovac municipality. Even infringement courts, misdemeanor courts have municipalities that are twice as small. For example, Raška municipality with an estimated double population of Bujanovac municipality. In addition, the Bujanovac municipality is a border that has two very traffic crossings. One is an integrated crossing to Konculj with Kosovo, and the other is a border crossing with Macedonia at Prohor Pcinjski. Then, the Bujanovac passes Corridor 10, and all of these are factors that increase the inflow of court cases, and all of this is not taken into account. On the other hand, it was not taken into account at all by a specific factor that it was a multiethnic municipality with a majority Albanian population and that even such a disastrous involvement of Albanians in the judicial system and specifically in the Vranje infringement court, where there is only one judge, there are no translators, there are no trainees, and what does it say?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27322	Time, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27323	I think I have time, those five minutes, so I'm gonna use one piece now. I will end up with this way with previous, three-year practice showing that on the one hand the participation of Albanians is getting worse, drastically in the judicial justice system, and on the other hand no activity is being taken to improve the situation. So we're not talking about constitutional law that Albanians have the right to court cases in their language, of which it's just a letter on paper. About this amendment so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27324	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? The second amendment was submitted by MP Mujo Mukovic, together with MPs Barjo Gegic and Enis Imamovic, and MP Srdjan Dragojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mujo Mukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27325	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I said in principle the main reasons why I submitted two amendments to this bill. The first amendment refers to the return of the Infringement Court to the municipality of Tutin, which it had until 1 January 2010, when the failed reform of the judiciary during the former government turned the infringement court into a New Pazar-based criminal court. There are a lot of arguments in favor of this amendment. The most important thing for me is that the Tutin municipality is large on the surface, by the number of inhabitants. Some 37,000 inhabitants have previously met the conditions of many municipalities that this bill has given them a mistrial. Then, which is a border municipality and what, if the legislator of this law did not provide for the return of the basic court to the Tutin municipality, it seems to me that there should have been more sensitivity towards this area and return at least the criminal court to the Tutin municipality, given that there is also an official border crossing of the caves, that a large number of violations of which the perpetrators are actually often foreign citizens and that there is very often a need for urgent treatment. Then, the Tutin municipality is bordering other than Montenegro about 60km in length, there is an administrative line both with the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija about 40km, there are also numerous violations. If we add that to the official data on the number of pending cases, the average number of cases in court, then the fact that there is an adequate judicial building, etc. If we compare the Tutin municipality to several municipalities that have received the draft law, the criminal court, and by all criteria do not meet the conditions that the Tutin municipality fulfils, I believe this amendment is justified, and I hope it can still be accepted. True, it should be said that there are about 50 municipalities that have not received a judicial unit under this bill, I have to be honest and say it, and they don't even have a section of the Criminal Court, but I still appeal to the minister and the legislator once again to consider the possibility of accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27326	A group of seven MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group submitted together to the 2nd amendment. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27327	This is the story we already talked about in the principle debate, but concrete things. So, we asked this amendment to return the violation court to Kosovo Mitrovica. In the bill of law, you have thrown out of this part of the law the court in Kosovo Mitrovica and basic, and infringements etc. What did you do? You are in the transitional and final provisions of your law which you have proposed that these courts will function until the adoption of the special law referred to in Article 12. You explained to us in principle that you have overcome one period, from the moment of entry into force of this law to the adoption of a special law that will regulate the way courts operate in KIM territory. If I'm not mistaken, that's what I'm saying. However, the serious problem with this solution of yours is that it contains a key unconstitution. Namely, in Article 182 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the second position stands – the Republic of Serbia has the AP Vojvodina and AP KIM, the essential autonomy of the AP KIM will be governed by a special law adopted under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. In Article 183. Serbia's constitution stands as the competences of autonomous provinces. In the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces, there is no possibility of regulating courts or determining a network of courts. This is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia towards a solution set out in Article 183. Why is an essential autonomy solution provided for in Article 182? Because perhaps someday, solutions could be derrogated from the Serbian Constitution. But they're not derivated, there's no way that you, in the law that you're proposing today, are relying on a future norm, an assumed norm that may one day be adopted in the National Assembly, so that you draw the opportunity to edit different matter of the courts than the Constitution provides. So, if we understand each other here, and I think this is crystal clear, it's perfectly clear that you can't throw out the court-leading Criminal Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, because if you really intend to wait for some law, in this case it has to be the law that's being passed under the procedure for changing the constitution, in order for this matter to be resolved by any other means, then we don't see any interference that all the numbered courts remain in the current law. If that's your intention. Because, anyway, one day, if a special law is passed that regulates essential autonomy, then however, that law can derivate certain provisions of the current Constitution, because its meaning is that it is a special norm. If that doesn't happen and if it's not a certain future circumstance, we don't know when it's going to be, in no way at all, you can't do this in advance. Then you scolded us when you said that it was a reflection on the Brussels Agreement and you said – I didn't mention the Brussels Agreement anywhere, I don't know why you mention the Brussels Agreement. Now I'm going to tell you why we're talking about an agreement even though you didn't mention it. You didn't mention it because it doesn't suit you, and in point 10 of the first Agreement on Principles that regulate the normalisation of relations between Belgrade and Pristina stands the following -- the courts of the authorities will be integrated and will function within the legal system of Kosovo. The appeal court in Pristina will establish bigger ones to be composed of most Kosovo Serb judges who will be responsible for all municipalities in which Serbs are the majority population, etc. Therefore, the integration of courts into Kosovo system is envisioned. You, not you, but the SNS authorities have also said to the current coalition, and otherwise Ivica Dacic as prime minister was the most open until now because he told us that Kosovo is lost and what we have to deal with, in a certain way. In discussions, the proposals you make do not give clear and natural logical reasons for the citizens of Serbia and for us MPs, which is why some solutions find a place or do not find a place in this law. You have expelled Kosovo courts from the court list in the previous part of the law. You have made a rubber transitional norm because you want to be according to the Brussels Agreement which is clearly greater than the law and the Constitution of this country. That's what we've been telling you all along and where you're twisting facts and what we're saying about that pay phone and in your answer, which you think and you have the right to explain it infinitely, you're trying to twist the brains of those who have entered this debate and to show that we're talking about something that doesn't matter. This obviously has something to do with it, and it's obviously the counter-constitution we've been telling you about. If you have any political and professional honesty, you should put this away.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27328	National MP Nikola Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27329	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, I have submitted an amendment that I have proposed not to abolish the judicial units in Raznja, Backo, Backo Palanca, Preshevo, Osecina, Srbobran, Plandišče, Bolovac, Čečnja, Rakovac, Novi Crnja, Batocina, Racha, Barbarina, Blaca, Krupa, Ljiga, Svrljiga, Backo Petrovac, Bečino, Zabljina, Temerina, Titela, Alibunara, Kovačica, Čuprija, Babušnica, Beli Palanca, Žabar, Žalj, Koserić, Novi Varoši, Irig, Peći, Adi, Adi, Apatina, Odzaci, Lajkovci, Čatine, Guci, Guci, Bogić, Vladimir and Koceljetić. A little more than 40 judicial units are passed through the bill. I absolutely don't think it's acceptable for Serbian citizens. I think it's better for judges to travel, not citizens, because they're much higher costs if they travel citizens, not if they travel judges. On the other hand, your argument regarding the costs absolutely does not stand, because you have increased costs and travel and costs for the judiciary budget, the budget of the Justice Ministry and the VSS budget for 2014 by about a billion. There are no arguments why these municipalities are being abolished. Just as you have abolished a little more than 40 judicial units without arguments, today on the Committee of Justice without any significant arguments we have managed to adopt that the judicial unit in Barvarin, Kovacica, Čupria, Topoli, Bogatic is not abolished. Now, of course, the question is, since we brought the court unit back to Topol, why did we return the judicial unit to Topola and we're not in Batocina? The Batocina court unit had 12,000 cases last year. Covering the municipalities of Batocino and Lapovo, everything from the highway from Batocina to Jagodina and there are more objects according to my information than Rač and Topola combined. We gave Topoli and didn't give Batocina. The attack again, and we don't know why. Why did we return, I don't know, to Kovac and we're not in Alibunar? I don't know who ever thought to have a judicial unit in the Turkey that wasn't small at all, and now we've got the Turkey back. We have corrected 10% of the injustices today on the board, and 90% of the injustice remains and the citizens will not be able to exercise their rights in these municipalities. There was one argument that there would be less work when the notaries worked. I agree, if there's less work going on in the car park when you've been working on the notes that you've put off for over a year, then we can talk where there's no need and so that the judicial units won't be. In my mind, I think it doesn't make any sense, and you can see when something is memorized that it's purely politically motivated. It is politically motivated that Sabac is going to Novi Sad to appeal, not Belgrade. It is politically motivated to abolish 19 judicial units in Vojvodina, and it is politically motivated to have a court in Surdulica, not in Vladica Han, although all the criteria speak of the fact that Vladica Han has much more needs for court because there are more cases, more judges and all rational arguments speak in favour of the Government's Han. Today on the Committee I had the chance to hear – there will be a court in Surdulica, but it will be a criminal division, so all the blame will be in Vladica's Han. Then why is the court in Surdulica and not in Vladica's Han if they're going to be tried in Vladica's Han? Please think again. We also had controversy about the municipalities of Kanjig and Ada. The board didn't make any amendments. The technical possibilities no longer exist to change amendments, to make corrections or to submit amendments to the committee, and I think we should resolve that Ada still has a judicial unit and that Kanjiza has a judicial unit, because there is an exceptional need for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27330	Mr. Mikovic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27331	First I use the time of my authorised representative. I consider what counterpart Konstantinovic did that he practically tried to make a great effort into the amendment to avoid the bad consequences of the bill. I speak from the perspective of the South Banat, because I come from there and I know the situation well. It is good that it has been accepted on board a certain correction that the General Court in Pančevo is for the territory of the municipality of Alibunar, Kovacica and Opovo for the town of Pančevo with the judicial unit in Kovacica. However, there is only a partially corrected mistake because we do not have a judicial unit in Alibunar. We know we used to have a basic court in Alibunar. There are needs, especially given the composition of the population, and I don't think it's very difficult for her to have another judicial unit. I'm taking the opportunity to point out certain things that concern the area of the courts. When we looked at the area of South Banat, more South Banat was not as defined so far. Once again, I point out to everyone after we are discussing territory, the fact is that for the Kovin area, criminal courts are heading towards Panchev, i.e. the trial in economic disputes is headed for Panchev, and the trial in the basic courts is headed for Smederev. Smederevo lost Smederevska Palanka and the Great Plan, but it won Kovin. I'm only interested in when a crime is committed between Panchev and Bavaniste and a police officer who has to find out if it's a crime or a crime, so if it's on the border of the metal municipality and the Panchew municipality in the Athar, three metres in the Kovina territory, then a possible criminal case will be filed against the Pancheva Criminal Court, and a criminal application to the Smederjevo General Court and a police officer from the Pancheva Police Administration comes out of the scene, and if it's a criminal offence, then it's necessary for the Smederev prosecutor to come. It's particularly interesting in a prosecutor's investigation, where the need for extremely good co-operation between the prosecutor and the police administration has been highlighted, because now we don't have an investigative judge, and it's practically burdening those who need to respond to the challenge. So far, we've had a clearly demarcated South Banat halfway across the bridge, so we know where the border is, and now we're gonna have a situation where they won't know on the ground. Furthermore, as far as the area is concerned, I must again say that, when a crime is being followed, if it comes to the area of the town of Pancheva itself, Bavanište is the first village in the direction of Kovina, the issue of jurisdiction will be raised. So, all of what we're telling you, what Mr. Konstantinovic gave very materially in his amendment and what we're talking about from practice, take seriously, seriously consider. Because it is amazing that 180 amendments are submitted and that no amendments are accepted until today's committee. At this point, we don't even have confirmation that the government will accept any amendment committees. I hope he accepts it, but so many MPs have worked so hard to fix the situation, and of the 180 amendments, none are good. Are we MPs wrong or someone else wrong when they give us a bill like this? Now I ask you, MPs, and if we want to accept such a proposal where virtually none of your proposals are accepted, I think that this devalues the serious work of the MPs in an attempt to amend the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27332	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27333	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of Dr Stefanovic, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all that this government brings to this building in front of the MPs, is in fact only a coward's egg. There's no desire, no will to reform anything. I listened to you this morning, Mr. Minister, in the morning RTS programme, a journalist asks you for judicial reform, you first congratulate the citizens on the successful elections in Kosovo Mitrovica, not saying that this greatest success has resulted in the carrying of a box in Kosovo field, because the OSCE has no confidence that you are capable of counting votes. And then the Kosovo Mitrovica court is gone, but unfortunately there are no judicial units where they should have been and where they were. You are significantly reducing the access of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to judicial units and courts, increasing the costs of the trial, as lawyers, jurors, those who are being tried in a litigation procedure will have to travel to distant places, judges will have to travel, and this will by no means bring the institutions of the Republic of Serbia closer to the citizens, on the contrary, making it even more difficult for them to approach justice and to satisfy justice. Unfortunately, I need to talk about a few drastic examples. I apologize to the friendly community of Slovakia in Serbia, my friends, for I am speaking on behalf of Pavel Marcok, my fellow MP who sat next to me last year, who is now President of the Municipality of Baki Petrovac, the Slovaks who made an immeasurable contribution to the development of Serbia, the Slovaks who gave the first four directors in the Karlovo High School, who have and how much they owe to the Republic of Serbia, remain without a judicial unit in Bačka Petrovac and will have to travel to distant places to satisfy justice. I apologize to my friends to the Slovaks, to all those people in Backo Petrovac who have always welcomed me friendlyly, which is despite the fact that the municipality is ready to give and the building where the trials would be held, unfortunately we have no understanding of this government and that is the punishment of Bakko Petrovec for not supporting Tomislav Nikolic. It's a punishment for all ethnic communities... Marko Atlagic from the scene: Shame on you. )......................................................................................................... And shame be upon you, and not upon me; for I do not break their judgment, but ye that cast me away. You are ashamed of this, according to the ethnic community, which has made an immeasurable contribution to Serbia's development. I'm sorry that Guca won't have a judicial unit, that you didn't appreciate the fact that the Guca community is located in the Municipality of Luciani and that they, in order to go to Ivanjica, have to cross a few dozen miles, where there's no bus line, where there's no possibility of being transferred from Yelendol differently, but they have to go through Požega, Arilla, then to Ivanjica, which is a loss all day long. Unfortunately, our judiciary has not only touched the bottom of this muddy reform by the government, the worst since the arrival of the southern Slovenians in the Balkans, our judiciary has not only touched the bottom, this sloppy reform has touched the bottom. When you call this bottom the highest peak and the highest reach of this instant government, when the supreme institutions collapse in this way, when the top becomes the bottom, then our bottom is even deeper and then we sink again into that bottomless abyss, where you pushed us for the last term, in the 1990s, when you destroyed every institution you touched, where there was no stone left on the stone after your power, where we had all the troubles to count, let alone justice to satisfy. What did you do for a period of your reign? If you can’t speak, at least try to learn to keep quiet, it’s not difficult. What Alexander Wolf would say – I did not interrupt you while you were silent. I ask you to accept these amendments that the DS, which the ruling majority MPs had, to realize that the judiciary is not your toy, that Serbia is not your toy, that if you did not have toys in childhood, that you are not playing with the institutions of this country now, because it is very dangerous and devastating for the future of this country. So I ask you to think again about the DS amendments and the amendments of many MPs to the ruling majority, because they should return to their places of residence. I will always proudly go to Baki Petrovac and tell them – sorry, once DS takes responsibility for the management of this country again, you will have a judicial unit. I'll always be able to get back to Guch, and you can see how you'll be in front of those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27334	The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27335	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, while we are talking about how when someone returns to their midst, we have one constant question, since I come from Shumada – how will SNS representatives in Shumadi? The fact is, thanks to the DS initiative, but we were able to get the JS back to Topol anyway. But what's left of the problem is a large number of municipalities in Shumadia. You have the Municipality of Raca, the Batocina municipality mentioned by my colleague, but in Batocina, on a territory of 216 km square, 13,000 inhabitants, there is a need for even a judicial unit. There are also conditions, in terms of rooms, but first of all you need to know, to know Serbia and to know Shumadi. The forest is quite endangered, one municipality in which 90% of the population is rural, which is completely on topole territory, would normally be facing the municipality of Topol, not Kragujevac. To Kragujevac, it goes 40 kilometers, a very bad road, unfortunately, we are not proud of it, but a large number of Ratche residents are gravitating right in Topoli. What would be the problem with building a judicial unit that would be brought out of that court? You forgot the court that was founded in 1806, during the leader of Karadjord in Topoli. Thanks to fellow JS Kosanic, who lobbyed for you, as well as DS, to be aware of some important things that are not always so clearly visible in statistics. It is important that you be aware of all the geographical and political conditions that are a prerequisite for the adoption of such laws. If it's pure mathematics, so you crossed half of Serbia's municipalities, then it's something we draw attention to as very bad. The Raca municipality, I say once again, must necessarily be facing Topoli. The Batocna municipality, which has a large inflow, thanks to the DS above all, is a major inflow of foreign investments. There's a huge need, it also shows the number of cases, for the existence of a single judicial unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27336	Minister Selakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27337	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd really have to intervene here because for the third time I've mentioned one untruth. Who forgot Topola? Then someone can't read. Because if he could read it, then he would read the bill and see that the bill provides for a judicial unit to exist in Topoli. Unfortunately, there are not so many people living in Topoli anymore that there can be a court, but in that judicial unit they will be tried as in any other court. So, not more like today, that only litigation can be tried, but also criminal when there's a need for it. I can really understand everything, I can understand that even someone from local-political, someone for macro-political reasons requires something, but be to that extent correct, so read what the law says. The law states – the basic court in Arangelovac with a judicial unit in Topoli. Who forgot Topola? What are you talking about? The Topoli court should exist. Among other things, you listed after and one of the reasons why. If this judicial unit, in which if these laws are adopted in this form, if that judicial unit differs from the court only because there is no President of the Court and does not have its accompanying administrative services, and in the case of judges, it will be the same place where the court is based, then I do not see how the one who propagates even the nominal cost reduction now proposes their increase. So, the bill which has been discussed here in principle provides for a judicial unit in Topoli. What the Committee has amended with its amendment is that it has brought the municipality of Rač under the jurisdiction of the basic court in Arangelovac and that the inhabitants of the Rač municipality will be able to go to Topol. Because Racha has traditionally gravitated Topoli and that's all right. It's okay that you said, I accept and respect it, but I can't respect you saying that Topola has been forgotten and that this amendment allegedly brings the judicial unit back to Topola. No, it was as indicated in the bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27338	Thank you. The replica was reported by MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27339	I have to say another surprise, but since you've probably spent most of your life in Belgrade, I know you certainly haven't witnessed what it means when some municipalities are fighting for institutions. I talk about the court all the time, not the judicial unit. We're talking about you making one thing that has a deep tradition and respect... If the problem for the state of Serbia is the president of the Topoli court, in a material sense, in the sense that the cost reduction by reducing one of the presidents' salaries in Topola will make a message to the people of Topola, who today have a terrible problem of driving to Belgrade... You don't even know what problems, minors of existential nature in the 21st century near the capital have citizens of this municipality. The easiest thing to say is, no, we didn't take anything away from you, we haven't changed anything, it'll be an affordable judgment, it'll be all the same as it used to be. It is simply not true for the people of the Municipality of Rač, or the municipality of Batocin, and it is certainly not easy for the citizens of Lapovo municipality today. If we have a president from the Woodland and a man who continues to co-ordinate and assists this government that's done so little for a year and a half, that we don't have a single investment in the forest today, that we're shutting down all institutions with all kinds of reasons, that's something that's the result of a government where you're a minister. Obviously, you've only hacked into one system that puts Shumadi in a situation that needs to increase all its costs to ensure basic existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27340	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27341	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I felt the need to, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, and on behalf of the Single Serbia Parliament Club, say a few words about the amendments that have been discussed so far, as well as the amendments that will be discussed in the future, because they mostly come down to the same. We come from different environments, small, medium and large municipalities and in our own way we want the municipality from which we come to get, if the court can't, at least the judicial unit. However, what the Committee had in mind when it proposed these amendments, in which there are many amendments from different parliamentary groups, or MPs from different parliamentary groups, so they are simply covered by these amendments given by the Committee. There are some municipalities mentioned here, and some seem to be forgotten because they have no MPs here in the National Assembly. For example, the municipality of Batocin is mentioned, and no one will mention the municipality of Knic. It's mentioned that he needs Guch to get a court unit. I ask, what makes Guca more important than the municipality of Knic, by the number of inhabitants and by some significant historical moments, etc.? So let's be realistic. So far, we've had one network of courts and public prosecutors who showed in practice that she didn't give the best results. On the other hand, let's turn to some other things, to prevent Serbia from emptying out for us, that some rural municipalities have a little more population, so there will be more litigation, that is, opportunities for judges to be employed there in those courts, and we will later form judicial units and courts, if necessary. Let's not just look at this bill the way it is. He's certainly better than he was before. I wouldn't get into the assessment of whether the three- or four-year-old reform was successful or not, it was best shown by citizens who made the statement that what was so far was not best. On how some authorities worked during the previous period and when applying the Law on Courts, on a network of courts, etc. We saw it. So, I could accept the proposal and some MPs -- let's just say that every municipality in Serbia, which has 150-160, has either a basic court or a judicial unit. But let me ask, who will pay? They say certain local self-governments accept to bear the costs of being in their midst either judicial units or courts. They'll pay the citizens again. It does not matter whether they are paid from the republican budget or from the budget of local self-government, as citizens still have to separate the money in order to support those judicial units, i.e. basic courts. So, I think this is the best solution right now. There's always a better solution, but let's accept this as it is. For example, by birth I belong to the municipality of Rekovac, which has about 10,000 or 11,000 inhabitants, but there is no basis for being a judicial unit because there are not enough disputes, except for desert disputes, or desert proceedings. So let's not now to collect some political points, because they're looking at us from the transmission, that in that municipality where we come from, or neighbouring municipalities, tomorrow when there's a vote – here we are, fighting for that municipality, etc. To conclude, when we talked about misdemeanor courts, nothing was changed when it came to the schedule of criminal courts and judicial units, that is, the division of criminal courts in relation to the existing law. I could also ask – why was there only in Paracina for the municipality of Paracino and in Jagodina for five municipalities during the last division? I didn't propose that proposal. We adopted him, I voted, and I'm not ashamed that I voted because they convinced me that it was right back then. Now nothing's changed, and let's see if we can change it in another period. When someone's talking about whether it was good or not, I'll just give them two examples. The whole Srem County had only one primary court. Was that a good thing? It's not. The whole forest district had only one primary court. Was that a good thing? It's not. Someone mentions - why Racha etc.? If anyone knows Serbian history, and should know it if it came from this assembly bench, Raca is historic, economically, as you will, tied to the topola umbilical cord. More people from the Raca municipality are heading towards Topoli than they're heading towards Kragujevac. It is completely realistic that Raca is somehow tied to a judicial unit in Topoli, i.e. to the basic court in Arangelovac, and to be disbanded, in a way, and the basic court in the City of Kragujevac. Therefore, I would ask the MPs to be realistic when they explain their proposal, or their amendment, to realize that the Ministry and the Justice Committee had the best intention when he proposed this law, that is, when he proposed these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27342	Nenad Konstantinovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27343	I just need to get back to you after this statement by the chairman of the Justice Committee. I don't think we understand each other here. I'm talking about this network being done by heart. Last time a network of courts was built, there were sometimes 130 and 5, 6, 7, 8 courts in Serbia. When a reform was made in 2008, in 24 cities in Serbia, courts and 10 other major municipalities were given. Everyone else got a court unit. So besides 34 courts, there were 96 judicial units and 130 municipalities were satisfied. Everyone had a court of law, or a judicial unit, almost all those who once had a court. Now take no criteria, and you say whether there are more in Georgia or more people in Gucci. We don't know where he is, because no one gave us any analysis. We don't know if there's supposed to be a judicial unit in Raca or not, because no one's given an analysis in which to show -- there's not enough cases, there's not enough judges, there's a need to be abolished. Politically determined and abolished depending on who is in power of the municipality. We can't discuss this seriously if we don't have any analysis and we don't have any criteria. What's the result of what's going on today? The result is it's going to be worse. From 40 municipalities, people will have to travel to other municipalities. People in those 40 municipalities don't know, it wasn't in the media, they don't even know they were going to have a judicial unit abolished. Try asking the citizens of Batocina, citizens of Blatz. I'm not from Batocina, I'm not from Blac, I'm from Belgrade and I'm in favour of being judicial units in both Batocina and Blac and Kanjija and Ada, because there's a need for that. So, think again about what you're doing and my proposal is that we adopt this amendment that I have made, when we vote on amendments and correct the great injustice that the government is currently doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27344	Petar Petrovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27345	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I would ask you to answer one question - will this law, when we adopt it, be there on days in certain municipalities, or cities, according to a programme that will be designated by the President of the Court of Justice to whom these municipalities, which do not have judicial units at the moment? Let's not connect to the judicial units now, please. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like every municipality to have a judicial unit, but is it realistic that some judge, in some judicial unit today, has two cases, and tomorrow there's not one, so the day after that, there's one trial, and let's say that some judge has 50 or 20 today, or I don't know how many debates. There are places in Serbia where there is simply no work for a judge, and that is why the president of the court will determine the day when a certain number of cases will be tried in that place and not travel by parties, but simply by judges and lawyers. Dear colleagues, because you're going to travel, you get money from the party, so you can pay for someone to represent you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27346	According to the amendment, the People's MP Ljubica Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27347	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with his associates, I have come from Arangelovac, or I am an MP from there, and the court in Arangelovac has existed since 1868. Personally, I believe that this proposal from the government is the best proposal, much better than this proposal from the Justice Committee, because it will have a judicial unit in Topoli that will belong to the Arangelovac, and Topola is only 15 kilometers away from the Arangelovac. So there are opportunities to hold all major trials, i.e. guilt and other trials that cannot be conducted in the judicial unit. The court in Arangelovac has 2,200 square meters, so it meets the employment needs. He's got personnel in Arangelovac. There are now seven judges working in Arangelovac, and the rest were deployed to Kragujevac, in several courts. The court of law is also in the primary court building. I personally believe, and also to the satisfaction of all citizens of the Arangelovac, I would like to thank the motion that the Court of First Instance continue to be in Arangelovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27348	By amendment Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27349	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, for the SNS parliamentary group this amendment submitted to Article 3 is totally unacceptable. I must say that the arguments that some MPs have made here, that the quantity is of some quality and that the scope of that amendment should convince us that something qualitative and changed in relation to the bill absolutely does not stand. If we look closely at it, I have no doubt that the colleagues who were preparing for this item of the agenda have become familiar with the text of Amendment 3, we would actually see that if someone votes for this amendment in fact completely dissuade the draft law on the network of courts and public prosecutors because this amendment is actually trying to maintain the status quo. And if the network of courts adopted by the previous 2008 law, i.e. which came into force in 2010, for these three years passed the review of practices, professions, and the public, there would be no debate today on this law and there would be no need to change the network of courts. So no one can convince us that 34 courts are just over 66 courts, and no one can talk about whether it took 111 or how many, judicial units when it was also an analysis of their work as the Supreme Casualty Court did in this period, or whether it was an analysis of all those who participated in the public debates, which were mostly people from the profession, the judiciary, the economy, lawyers, and even the parties, to see how useless a network of courts was. We've heard here, which is completely unacceptable, a colleague who's probably never been Bačka Petrovac spoke here and laminated on the fate of the people who live in Bačka Petrovac that he won't have adequate judicial protection. Now, I live two, three kilometers from Bačko Petrovec, in the town of Novi Sad, and I know that no one from Bačko Petrovec will object to what is now gravity of the court in Novi Sad. I have to tell my colleague he doesn't even know how many people live in Backo Petrovac. That Baki Petrovac is a completely abandoned municipality because it leans on the city of Novi Sad. He doesn't know how many cases there were in that court at all. How many judges are there? What's it look like so far? What's the court building look like? I don't know where he got the idea that someone wanted to set up a courthouse for the court's sake. What's most important is I think there's only a few houses in the distance from Backo Petrovec to Novi Sad. So it really shouldn't be said here, nor alarming the public who in fact in Bačka Petrovac and cannot be confused because they live next to Novi Sad and are absolutely satisfied with such a solution, especially that the National Council of the Slovaks participated in public debates and gave its opinion on the proposed solutions to the bill that we are discussing. As for the amendment to Article 3 proposed by the Committee on Justice here, I ask that the copyright is not given by any party here, and it is ugly that one of the parties said that, thanks to them, no, here is the president who can testify that we unanimously adopted those amendments and that it is the work to improve this bill by all the political parties that have their members in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27350	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27351	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Thank Lord God I've been to Bakko Petrovac many times. I've seen that people are wonderful hosts. Many of them I have hosted in Kruševec, I have seen that they are also good guests and I wish that all those who say that Baki Petrovac should not have a judicial unit, because it is near Novi Sad, come to the citizens of Baki Petrovec and tell them to their faces. To organize a meeting and say – here, you citizens of Bačka Petrovec, you have a bus stop you don't need another one, but you don't need a court. You don't need a judicial unit. You come well to Bačka Petrovac, at your party's pre-election meeting and tell them – we do not think you should have the right to have a judicial unit here in Bakko Petrovac, but travel to Novi Sad, there are no 30 kilometers, 10, 20 kilometers, and for those who say we are doing something by heart. We are people who are very thorough, and we are very thorough in preparing for these discussions. Each of you MPs who had the opportunity to read this material couldn't even read the number of items in Backo Petrovac as many as there were, as many were gone. Nowhere could he find the parameters on which Baki Petrovac was left without a judicial unit, he couldn't find even the number of people he had fallen, as far as he didn't, how long the average procedures in Bačka Petrovac were going on, because this thing was done in political dictatorship and by heart. When you're doing something by heart, then you have to have some insight. On the other hand, when we talk about Serbia developing evenly, as the president of the Committee said, and that people should stay in Serbia, it is good that the basic court remains in Triestenik. I welcome it, because the Court of Justice has filed a criminal complaint against Minister Bačević, because he is making them a nickel mine in Tristenik, so he will come to Trstenik and explain how he wants to stifle agricultural production in front of the basic court in Tristenik. But, you know, when someone does something by heart, when someone's trying to hide something, he doesn't know how to stand in front of international organisations and explain to them why he's doing such a sloppy judicial reform when he gets the opinion of the Venice Commission that this is a technical nature of change, than who's building his capitulation on allegedly poor judicial reform. Now faced with the fact that it wasn't so bad doing what he accused us of, it makes it impossible for the citizens of Serbia to access the judicial units. Math is one of the dominant sciences there are two and two there were always two, you can't say 96 is less than 66. Ninety-six judicial units can never be less than 66. If you add that to 22 basic courts it's a sum of 88 by 34 you can't add it up and subtract it, because the language of numbers is the best disabling you. So in mathematics 96 was always bigger than 66, maybe SNS will pass a law where 96 is less than 66. You have a majority that can do anything. You can do whatever you want in Belgrade, but you can't do it as long as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27352	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment with the correction. The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27353	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs. It has not been long since so many amendments have been submitted to one law, and it seems to me that amendments have been equally submitted by MPs from the opposition benches, but also from the positioning benches. So, a huge number of amendments that says immediately that the law is not good, because if you have one law of 180 amendments submitted on both sides, so it seems to me that something is wrong with the law, and there is clearly a people's will here. Since the MPs, the representatives of the people, and all of us here very often call upon the people when we talk about the laws and in the name of the people, then, Mr. Minister, I advise you to withdraw this law, to study it again, and what the MPs have said through the amendments and to pass a new law on the seat of the courts, and it seems to me that the number of basic courts would have to be doubled. Instead of 66 courts being a minimum of 120 courts, it seems to me that we do not need judicial units, because I also read in the material that it is also your finding that the judicial units in the previous period did not justify the expectations that we all had. So we don't need judicial units, we need a large number of basic courts. When you spoke in principle, you said it was about impossible and that the Belgrade judge had an incomparably larger number of cases than some judges in a smaller place, which is of course true. But I'm sure it can be solved and that's not the problem. I think it's a problem of a different nature. If this continues very quickly, we will not have the need for judicial units or for basic courts in many cities in Serbia, as all people will move north of Sava and Danube, so Belgrade-Vojvodina. People simply don't have the opportunity to exercise some of their rights, they don't have the ability to work, and they go with the belly after the bread. This is how you help these people move out of their neighborhoods. We now have an example that there are not many villages in Serbia, that simply more villages that existed until a few years ago do not exist anymore. I'm afraid in the future, we'll start talking about not villages, but cities. So I ask you once again to study this, bring back the basic courts, give people the opportunity to have justice close to and justice available. Someone here asked a question, and who's gonna pay for it? Those who advocate this will pay to be as many basic courts as possible, they are citizens of Serbia. So the unequivocal will of the Serbian citizens is expressed through the MPs that they want to have their own court in almost every municipality, and I don't think we have the right to go deaf in that will. Let's make it possible for people to have justice close and reaching. I want to talk about this from one more aspect. In my day, I'm from Kruševec, people came to Belgrade to study and 80% of these people were returning to their cities. Eighty percent of us who entered rights back in the '70s went back to Kruševac, found a job in town, some in the D.A., some in court, some in the economy. In this way you young people who come from the municipalities to which you abolish the courts are destimulated to return to their cities. In fact, they can't even come back, I can't find my job. There won't be any basic courts, there won't be prosecutors, the economy is in a catastrophic state, there's no hiring lawyers. So together, we all help Serbia south of Sava and Danube to be in big trouble, that people move out and that eventually I say there will be no need for courts. I specifically submitted an amendment relating to the General Court in Alexandrovac and the General Court in Varvarin, the first for the territory of the Municipality of Alexandrovac, and the second for the territory of two municipalities of Cicevic and Varvarin, and one and the second court would cover the population of 30,000. Both Alexander and Barvarin both have excellent buildings where a trial can normally take place. They have tradition and what is very important to me, they have professional staff who can do their job very well and who have done this job very well to reform the judiciary. So we put the courts back where the people think they should be. Let's stop the migration to the north. Let's help our people stay where they were born, because they want to live here, but the state has to give them conditions. One of the conditions is that they have justice close, reaching, fast and effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27354	National MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27355	I thank the President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I have submitted three amendments in front of the SPS Parliament Club and in order to understand one piece of the amendment, and above all in the context of the amendment of this Article 3. I would also like to say that we have submitted an amendment to the amendments in Article 2 paragraph 1) where we have provided that the Apatino Criminal Court for the territory of the Municipality of Apatin is established, and also in the same article that the existing paragraph 38 is changed and said - that the Infringement Court in Sombor for the territory of the municipality of Kula and Odjaks for Sombor with the departments of the court in Kula and Odzak is established. In the case of, in particular, this amendment, in Article 3(1) after point 1), a new point (1) is added, which is the basic court in Apadin for the territory of the Municipality of Apatin, and in the same Article, point 56) is amended and the basic court in Sombor for the territory of the municipality of Odjacs and Sombor. I believe that the idea of these amendments is fully in line with the importance of the Municipality of Apatin, as one Danube, tourist, border and very important economic municipalities for this part of the Republic, i.e. for the APV and that the situation in which the Municipality of Apatin remains without the basic court and judicial unit, these facts are not the best possible way to evaluate and therefore the Municipality of Apatin, in 1956, had its own court until the last reform of the trans-judication. Of course, after this reform, the overall criminal referendum, the investigations are being passed to the Somboro Court of the Basic Court and certain problems have arisen when it comes to, above all, the insight, which takes place in Sombor, the transportation of witnesses, the transportation of the defendants to Sombor. That's what some kind of visible problem with this proposal and solution is. On the other hand, there is also evidence that there is insufficient space in the Sombor General Court building, where the judges from Apatino are now traveling, with certain costs. This can in some ways affect the efficiency and quality of work. On the contrary, there is a functional city in the municipality of Apatin, or Apatin, of almost 1,000 square squares, in which it could be very efficient and high-quality and where each judge would have his own cabinet. In addition to this, the fact is that in 2006, only two other courts from Serbia participated in a project to modernise the judicial administration based on modern information technology. In the light of the motions for the rejection of this amendment, the draft law states that a more comprehensive solution is to leave the Apatin without a basic court and without a judicial unit, and that the analysis was carried out when it comes to geographical factors, population numbers, economic ambience and others. I would like to say that the Municipality of Apatin has more than 30,000 inhabitants, that it is, as is known, on the border with Croatia and that this is the first international port in the Danube and therefore certainly the proximity of the border can justify the existence of the basic court in Apatin and that all these border, let's say, border issues and problems could be in the jurisdiction of the basic court in Apatin and all the crimes committed in that band. On the other hand, the situation is currently such as to establish a state border and to move land, i.e. land books, which were conducted in the Republic of Croatia, more specifically in the Beli Manastir, to the jurisdiction of our cataster, or the Apatin. This is all about the importance of the Municipality of Apatin, of its geographical position, of the economic, cultural and therefore we appreciate that all these are the characteristics for which the proposal of this amendment should be accepted, because this would result in a faster and more efficient trial and, above all, the re-establishment of jurisdiction in the area of criminal matter, of course and certain savings in terms of costs, which would be very important for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We think that the legislator, or resolute minister and promoter, should consider and respect this proposal for the establishment of a basic court in the municipality of Apatin. I would also like to say that, in order not to appear under the amendment and Article 9, in which, following this idea and the amendment, we have proposed that, in Article 9 of the basic public prosecutor's office, it be established in the municipality of Apatin for the area of the basic court in Apatin. In this way these criteria of the Municipality of Apatin would be fully respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27356	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27357	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a difficult explanation that you have rejected the amendment that I have submitted, because the explanation written by the ministry disproves the reality and state of the field. To be perfectly honest, by reading these amendments, by listening to MPs, I don't recognize the political struggle for cheap points, I recognize a serious struggle for citizens' rights from where we come from. That's the amendment I want to return to Soko Banja. According to the 2009 network, Soko Banja received a judicial unit in which citizens exercised their rights before the court and the judicial unit is one of the most effective judicial units in Serbia. It is not intended for criminal trial to be conducted in the judicial unit, but rather for it to be done at the head office of the Basic Court in Zajecar, which has provided for certain problems and has produced certain problems which this bill does not want to solve, and it certainly wants to adopt the amendments that I have tabled. In fact, the road from 70km to the main court seat produced certain costs, not so small, for citizens who had to travel and to exercise their rights in Zajecar, as well as for the state because judges had to travel. It's kind of a problem. The other kind of problems are the geographical specificities of Soko Banja municipality, because the road to Zaječar headquarters led over the mountain one, through the gorge of the other, so during the winter period this road was not only difficult to walk, but often also impervious, so the exercise of the rights of the citizens before the court was not only difficult, it was inaccessible. This bill of law will not solve this problem, the transfer of the head office of the General Court to Aleksinec, because the problems are similar. So, on the one hand, we have negative effects that apply to this amendment, I mean the geographical specifics of Soko Banja municipality, I mean the costs that will remain on the other hand, we have a large number of cases, the judicial unit in Soko Banja, we have an increase in the number of citizens, residents of Soko Banja municipality, because Soko Banja is the leader of Banja tourism in Serbia, as a positive factography on the other hand, and all this suggests that Soko Banja should have a basic court. It was my position in 2009, which is my view based on facts and in 2013. Just like, say, Bolvac needs at least a judicial unit, and that's where it's abolished, and they won't have a judicial unit or a primary court. I know the Bolshevik and I know how it develops. And this is seen as the institutional collapse of a municipality that we can stop with amendments. Minister, I call on you to have the hearing of amendments coming from the MPs because they are actually derived from the rights of citizens and the interests of citizens, the right to equality and the availability of justice which is, after all, guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27358	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27359	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tried very carefully to listen to the explanation of the amendments, although it has been said that our reasoning for the rejection of the amendments has been difficult to accept. Namely, considering the fact that Soko Banja is one of the most important banana centres in Serbia and that the development of Banja tourism in this very place is a perspective for the whole region, and I have had the opportunity to stay several times in Soko Banja since childhood and later, and I must say that the amendment has not been accepted for completely rational and real reasons. The first reason is the fact that the Soko Banja population is increasing. It was only one of the additional arguments to establish a judicial unit in Soko Banja. It's said it won't solve the problems. The facts are that no more criminal cases were tried in Soko Banja - will be resolved. I think it is very clear, even in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Regulating Courts for which someone said they are cosmetic, and I would not say that they are cosmetic, if by 1 January of one year criminal cases cannot be tried in one place, such as Soko Banja, and as of 1 January of next year, if this set of laws is passed, they will be able to be tried. I don't see how the problem hasn't been solved. I will also note, for example, that until 1975, Soko Banja, as a municipality, was in the court area of Nis. He's now returning to the Great Court in Nis. It is significantly more accessible for the citizens of Soko Banja to go to Alexinac, but there will be no more need to go to Aleksinac when it comes to the basic court, because for everyone, not something can't, something can't, until yesterday they had to go to Zaječar, and partly to realize in Soko Banja. Now they'll be able to accomplish everything in Soko Banja, absolutely everything. This is one of the few municipalities where there is a tendency to increase the number of cases, but sometimes there is a bankruptcy of a company, so the demand for workers, but it's already a matter of business, but let's say the unpaid profits, so it requires workers to pay off those profits or some other kind of work dispute, and that's why in one year the number of cases is increasing, and there are no more. No, I don't. Like many other places, and given the poor road infrastructure in Soko Banja will be a judicial unit. I'd like to make a difference. Is it called the same judicial unit in this system that currently exists in this system that we seek to establish after the adoption of such a law? Yeah, it's called the same judicial unit. Is she essentially the same? No, because in Soko Banja, the judicial unit will be able to act as a court. In any place where a judicial unit is intended to exist, where guilt and litigation can be tried, it is, in fact, a court of law. It's a very important, qualitatively important difference. So, all what the MPs asked for was to establish a basic court in Soko Banja, and as far as citizens are concerned, everything they get from that amendment, they already have this proposal that's been given in law. The only difference is, in order for the court to be called, because the difference in the board that you're about to change is that it must have its own accompanying services, that it has its own President, and that increases the costs. Simply, for such a place, we think it is much better for the judicial unit as a judicial unit to function in its full capacity, without additional high costs, and much more efficient, more accessible and better way for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27360	The word has the People's MP Dejan Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27361	Minister, it would all be clearer if we knew what the criteria were that 40 or I don't know how many municipalities today don't even have a judicial unit, who has a basic court today, and who has a judicial unit. We'd talk a lot easier if we knew what the criteria were. From your explanation, which I received, Soko Banja, not only has the right to have a basic court, but we need to talk about returning from the administrative centre of Zaječar Criminal Court, Privredni, because Soko Banja belongs administratively to Zajecar, and today the court is in Alexinac, which is the area of Niša. It creates one institutional confusion among citizens. Do not condemn the MPs who are struggling to institutionally improve the municipalities they come from. It's my fight today, because Soko Banja next to the population has a large number of citizens who have their own properties in Soko Banja, they spend most of the year, but they don't run there, and that's what you've confirmed. You've also confirmed the number of cases that are huge, the efficiency of the judicial unit, before the court. This is where you state the tradition, so since 1833 there's the court, the Court of Justice. So don't condemn the MPs for simply fighting to institutionally advance the community from which they come. That's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27362	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27363	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really have no idea that I am judging anyone, and at least MPs who are trying to institutionally, as it is said, defend their municipalities. If it wasn't for Soko Banja, in general, it was a question of the criteria. The criteria are quite clear. The criteria were developed by a working group with the least people from the ministry, most of all by the judiciary, by law, from the legal profession, in one word. That's the first thing. The other thing, Soko Banja is really legal nonsens in one respect. If I am well-informed by the ministry of which I am headed, Soko Banja is a settlement in which the court building is illegally built, without even a single permit. So much for institutional defense and institutional reinforcement. I think it's a complete nonsens. Imagine now the Ministry of Justice and the state administration that one state should apply for legalization of a court building. I don't think you'll find it anywhere. An illegal building facility. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: What year was it built? I don't know what year it is, but we can try to find out. I really think this is an inadmissible thing. When it comes to the number of objects, don't exaggerate things. There's clear statistics. That statistic is somewhere on the border. And does Soko Banja get more from this bill than from the old, or existing law – it gets more. You said you were creating some kind of institutional confusion. I'll tell you that's a lot of examples. Let's say, the town of Sjenica. It is part of the Zlatibor Management District, and is within the area of the currently basic court in Novi Pazar. The municipality of Ivanjica is part of the Moravia Management District, and is currently located in the main court in Požega, and Požega is located in Zlatibor County, i.e. the Greater Court in Užica, as the headquarters of Zlatibor County. I don't know if there's some kind of institutional confusion in these citizens. We have provided for this bill that the area of the municipality of Ivanica should come to the area of the Great Court in Cačka. I think that's good. Is it easier for the people of Sokobanja, if they really need anything, to go to Alexinac or Zajcar, they know it best, because they're more gravitating in the Alexinac itself. Is he gonna get it? I'm saying again, yes, he'll get, he'll get more by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27364	The word has the People's MP Dejan Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27365	Once again, I'm not sure who you're criticizing when you're talking about legalization. You've been in power for a year and a half. You were in power in the municipality, so that problem wasn't solved. Obviously, there are certain problems here. I don't know who you're giving criticism to, on the one hand. On the other hand, I'm talking about saying what are the clear criteria. You say -- in the good part, they're clear, which means that in the smaller part, there are no clear criteria for choosing the place where the courts are going to be, where the judicial units are going to be. We ask you, what are the criteria that have not been so clear so far? I'm going back to the amendment and the essence. The struggle for an institutional promotion of a municipality is, instead of a judicial unit, a court, a basic court, because there are criteria for this compared to what you wrote in the explanation. Those are my weights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27366	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27367	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think we understand each other very well. So, what did we do in a year on the fact that the court is in an illegally built facility? Of course, we've initiated his legalization procedure. But here is the second question – who could have raised or bought an object for a court that was raised without a single building permit? Who could have moved the court into such a facility? Don't change the thesis. What did we do in a year? When we found that the facility was illegally erected, we approached all the legal procedures necessary for it to be brought into the law. What are the criteria? I said that the criteria were very clear and that most of the time they were applied. Someone might say they haven't been applied in some case. There was talk of a Bujanovac just now. Bujanovac is miles away from Vranj. No problem, functionally speaking, humanely speaking, in every respect, he didn't have to be the primary court. Respecting the specificity of this area, respecting the fact that the multiethnic structure of the population is, we have proposed that there be a basic court. Is that a deviation from the criteria prescribed by the working group? Yes, but it was suggested that a basic court be established there. Just once again to point out, trying to replace the thesis, where to say—that's what you did in a year, it doesn't matter what court is in an illegal facility. It doesn't matter what a citizen enters that building comes by justice and by his right by law guaranteed, although that building has nothing to do with the law. It doesn't matter. What did you do in a year? First of all, we've established that, we've brought out this information, we've started all the legal procedure required to legalize this facility and come. Imagine a situation where, God forbid, there's a fire in such an object. Then the question arises – where is the permit used for this facility and who will be responsible for all the consequences that would possibly occur? We have a case of much larger and more significant objects in the service of the judiciary, which were inhabited, in which the war of the judicial authorities began without a single permit. How can the cost of maintaining such a building be paid if the facility is not received? That's all a whole series of questions. Again, the court, which is located in an illegally built facility, needs to decide. From whatever political party we should encourage, I believe that this is the information that everyone, and especially the graduate lawyers, remains to be found. I've listed this case for Sokobanja, because it's really amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27368	Thank you. (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Replica. There's no point in replica anymore. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27369	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I attended an incredible case of self-critics. I come from the Indji municipality. We have over 50,000 residents, we have a judicial unit. There are slightly more than 15,000 inhabitants, the same judicial unit. The cocabation had a judicial unit so far, but it belonged to the Basic Court in Zajecar, as I understand the Greater Court in Zajecar, depending on the type of case. The blame has always been in Zajecar, and the judicial unit has only been in charge of litigation. That was when the former regime was in power. Today these same, who apparently have two positions, say that it is less good or require more rights, although this time they have a judicial unit that has the right, except for litigation, to lead and to blame, and to which Alexine is the primary court, which is closer to them, and to the Supreme Court in Nis, which is also closer to the court. So a much better solution is criticised than those who, while in power, had a party opinion, one opinion that was sent to them, but now as an opposition, they have been given the right to their own opinion and are in favour of the basic court, which in fact has almost the same rights as the judicial unit they have received. We in India are not very happy and happy because we've received a judicial unit of 50 and a few thousand, especially lawyers and judges, because it's a matter of prestige, first of all, but I think we're facing Sokobanja and how it can be satisfied. I believe Sokobanja has many objects. I'll tell you why. Under the authority of Zoran Golubovic, 69 years old, he asked me to present a 52-year-old dispute in Sokobanja. He's 69 years old, and when the dispute started in that court, he was 17 years old. The dispute began with his grandfather, then his father, and he thinks he'll still live to see this dispute end for his life. She's 69 now and she's at her late age. It's a plot of 13 acres that was taken away without any written decision. That's why I think this court has a lot of cases. Now I wonder, after the minister's statement, how that court judges for illegal construction. Imagine when a peasant comes who built a shed or barn without permission and they say it is a crime and judges in a building that is illegally erected. It's almost incredible, tragic. That's why he believes that court is buried in these cases. I hope it is not about this 1.3 ar plot, which was taken away in 1962, without a written decision, the Golubovic family. So this is amazing. This is for Giniz's record. It is this court that was suddenly so entangled that instead of a judicial unit, with all the rights they have and the basics and the courts, they have the right to remain apart from the litigation of water and guilt and that the courts in Alexinac, or Nis, are much closer to them than before in Zajecar. This is legal and legitimate what the opposition colleagues want, but it's a fine example of double standards, double opinions, that I have a speech in one pocket when I'm power, and in the other pocket I have a speech when I'm an opposition. So, no matter what I understand about all the courts and all the MPs, because if we adopted all these amendments, I think we'd have more courts than municipalities, so some local communities would get their basic courts, and some of them would get the most likely judicial units if they did all this. We've already seen what kind of party justice was, where judges were elected on a party basis, where courts were violently wiped out, where there were thirty courts, where there was an inaccessible judiciary, etc., we've already had it all, we've seen it all, but the number of courts and judicial units won't help citizens exercise justice and justice until we stop the justice that depends on the executive authority. However, this judiciary and this prosecution are independent of the current government, but not from the former, I guarantee you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27370	Right on line, MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27371	First of all, I'd blame you for Zoran. It's not Zoran Golubovic, it's Zoran M. Golubovic. When he calls you, I believe you'll get serious criticism. It's not my intention to defend judges or lawyers. It is my intention to defend the right of citizens to exercise their right to justice. The court is a citizen in 1975, so ask who built with the permits or not. I don't know who the question is. It's no substitute for what I'm doing. It's actually more difficult when you say that you want to turn the judicial unit into a municipal court, and then you get the answer - the building is legal or it's not legal. It's not the subject of this amendment, and that's why I don't want to talk about it. Let the authorities do their job, and let those in 1975 answer the question. I'm asking what criteria Soko Banja does not have the right to a basic court? That's the thing and that's the subject I'm working on in this amendment. Soko Banja has more citizens than she's ever had before. This is one of the most effective judicial units in the way it was the most effective municipal court in 2009. My position on the subject hasn't changed in 2009 or 2013. And then and now I'm saying that Soko Banja needs a municipal court and that's what I'm fighting for, not for lawyers, but for citizens' rights to exercise their right to court in Soko Banja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27372	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27373	Thank you. All I'm saying is that nothing my arguments have been swept away. We didn't cancel the Soko Banja court. It wasn't us who decorated him into a judicial unit with the rights to judge only litigation, it was someone else. We did not separate him to Zaječar as a senior court and as a primary court in Zajecar with a judicial unit in Soko Banja, which had very limited authority. We only give him back part of the authority and integrity, that he has the right, except for the litigation, to judge and blame, and to have a higher court in Nis, and that the basic court be in Aleksinc, that it be much closer to the citizens than it has been to now, that is, past reform or deformity of the judiciary, the judiciary and the organisation and the network of courts. So, I don't see any argument as to Mr. Golubovic, who gave me the authority. I agree that he has a middle letter M and that his name is Zoran M. Golubovic, but you have not disputed for any moment that this process lasts 52 years, as he stated and as the press has written. As for this 1975, I believe it was built in 1975 and that it was the fault of the then government and the then court, however, I wonder what has been done so far to legalize this court, to be legal and to judge these poor peasants who built sheds, pigs and hens illegally, that they could judge at least in a building that was legally built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27374	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27375	Let me just say the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27376	I understand Minister Selakovic has accepted this amendment. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27377	For the sake of the public, I would like to read about the amendment, because, apart from the MPs, the public has not been informed of what it is. The Committee submitted an amendment, which was accepted, for the basic court in Arangelvac, for the territory of the municipality of Arangelovac, Rač and Topola with the judicial unit in Topola, the basic court in Kragujevac for the territory of the municipality of Batocina, Knić, Lapovo and Kragujevac, the basic court in Kruševec for the territory of the Municipality of Varvarin and Cicvac and the town of Kruševac with the judicial unit in Varvarin, the basic court in Pančevo for the territory of the municipality of Alibunar, Kovačica and Opovo and the City of Pančevo with the judicial unit in Kočevac, the main court in Paracina for the municipality of Paracin and Ćuprija with the judicial unit in Čuprija and the basic court in Šapac for the territory of the municipality of Bogotić, Vladimirci and Koceljević and the town of Šabac with the judicial unit in Bogtić. By the time I heard back, I think a discussion about what legal and illegal facilities there are, including judicial buildings in Serbia, can take this discussion a lot. It's about time, we're a little older, remember, when no licenses were asked at all. It was just that it was all ours, socially, so no one asked for building permits, but they were building a building where someone pointed a finger to build a building. No one asked if you needed a valid permit, etc. Unfortunately, there comes a time when it all has to be fixed. In many cities, such as Soko Banja, there are similar situations. Sometimes it's about buildings where courts are, but so are many other buildings, and that's why it's the job of some other state-owned republican authorities to do the job, to simply enroll in Katastar, to see what happens to building permits, using permits, etc. There are many more significant objects in this country that, unfortunately, do not have a building permit or use permission.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27378	Just to repeat that the minister has accepted this amendment and has become an integral part of the law. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27379	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS Group will support this amendment of the Committee, i.e. in a voting day, will vote for this amendment. We consider it significant because it introduces four new judicial units – Barvarin, Kovačica, Čupria and Bogatic. The SPS parliamentary group had a proposal for an amendment relating to these judicial units, so on that side we express our satisfaction that this is the case. The first point relating to the change of jurisdiction of the court in Arangelovac and Kragujevac, which allows for Raca to use it in the Topoli judicial unit, which was otherwise intended to exist, but is closer to Raca. As for that, you have our full support. Using the time of an authorised representative, I would also like to refer to several amendments that I think might have found a place on this amendment committee. As for that, you have our full support. I want to look back here, using the time of an authorised representative, and I want to look back at a few things I think, a few more amendments, which I think they might have found a place in this amendment committee. I stick to this argument which says that, given the justified reasons that have been presented in a number of amendments to the MPs, which means that there has been almost a general agreement for this amendment, for these judicial units, which is not disputed and for support. Also, I think we should pay good attention to those amendments where not all the parliamentary groups have invested, and there is also a clear and strong argument. Mr Minister, in many places in the government's view you have given the following explanation – that the bill is based on analysis of the work of the basic courts, the average annual inflow of cases, criteria of geographical distance and development of the travel network, the number of inhabitants, traditions and the real needs of citizens for judicial protection. Of course, all of this in view of the need to ensure, i.e. respect for the right to a fair trial and the right to trial within a reasonable period, better organisation of work and reduction of the costs of the judiciary, equalisation of the judicial scratch and the achievement of the equality of citizens as well as raising the quality of judicial decisions. I very much respect this explanation and I think it's logical that whoever arranges the judicial system has these criteria. So, I don't question any of them, but I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister, that as a citizen, as a layman, so from the point of view of the citizens, I must not, in order to say the most negligent criteria - whether the court is available to the citizens in the easiest way possible.? I'm not questioning yours, it's true -- it's cost, it's to be taken care of, I'm completely in agreement. Last time I said it in principle, it's the best thing if every municipality had a municipal court. That would be the right thing to do. Of course, you'll tell me right away - yes, but who'll pay for it, etc. So that's what I mean, but you, too, with these criteria, I think you should take another look at it, for me, the most important criterion of the availability of the court to citizens. Last time I mentioned another question for some environments, small communities are not just the court's judicial authority, it's a special social phenomenon that brings together educated people, judges, lawyers and that I don't count on it anymore. By going from there, of course, there is an empty environment and then there is pressure on Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis etc. So, I respect these arguments, I respect them very much, and for this reason I'm now talking about and repeating to me as a citizen, the most important thing that I can do is to get to him first, the easiest way to get to him, to come, to exercise that supreme right -- the right to judicial protection. For these reasons, there are many amendments that we have proposed, in terms of and support for your strategic criteria, but at the same time to warn you to look again and that was the reason that I was speaking, when it comes to the amendment of the Committee, just to respect these criteria. We've proposed as a parliamentary group, otherwise I won't talk after each amendment, we've proposed a basic court in Kladovo, the General Court in Apatino, the Court of First Instance in Sopot. Your argument on my question in principle – what is the difference between the court now, the primary and the judicial unit was that there was no other than administrative management, except threatening services, etc. That's enough for me to argue that citizens don't care if it's a judicial unit or if it's a basic court. I'm speaking from the point of view. Kladovo's got a court unit okay. It's a shame the board didn't, let's just say, come up with a proposal for Apatin to have a judicial unit. It is a border municipality, a large municipality, 30,000 inhabitants, etc. For Sopot and Barajevo, when I proposed the basic court, I had in mind your praise, just to you, when that famous Second Basic Court which covered 2,000 square kilometers from several hundred thousand inhabitants divided into three, Lazarec, Obrenovac, as cities and Mladenovac, the basic court in Mladenov covering Mladenovac, Sopot and Barajevo, absolute support. Why did we warn you about the basic court? Because this basic court of Mladenovac, Sopot, to the Barajevs over 100,000 inhabitants. He'll be big again. It's about 800 and a few square miles. Those were the reasons. Otherwise, with your argument that the basic court and judicial unit are not to say the exact same, not counting on how you handle it satisfies, although I think you should return to that one sentence from your presentation and my reminder in the principle debate, you should monitor this network and immediately react where it is massive, where it is large, to continue to decrease etc. For these very reasons, along with those already accepted in the Committee's amendment, therefore, geographical distance, development of the travel network, etc. Not to repeat, which is why we considered and considered it now that you should look again at the need for Nova Varosh to have a judicial unit, because it is a vast space, an undeveloped municipality, a mountain-mounted municipality. From the point of view of how a citizen can reach the court, Guca, Luciani, not only Gucha, but Guča – Luciani, as a territory. In general again with a similar configuration. And not to list those little environments Boltz, Srlig, Ljig, etc. The one I was just talking about. So, I want to reiterate that we are fully in agreement with this amendment to the Defense, but that we think there is room for once again, regardless of the general consent of all the parliamentary groups, to take another look at each of these amendments, all with a fundamental goal, to respect the criteria. But let's see again if we've done everything we can to make that court available to a citizen, and I repeat, that's the most important thing for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27380	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27381	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to give a picturesque example, to the shortest extent possible. Unfortunately, there has been a tendency to decline in the number of people in Serbia for several decades. One of the first things that feels as a result of this decline in numbers and the ageing population is to shut down schools. When you look at and take a serious look at all the statistics that have worked for many years from the Ministry of Education, you will see that in a large number that measures hundreds of settlements in Serbia, schools no longer work. The schools are being shut down year after year. We can agree on the fact that school as one of the basic institutions is extremely important for one place, but we will also agree on the fact that if there are not enough users of its services in one place, there is no need for school. I gave this short comparison to bring the comparison closer, unfortunately both to the judiciary and to the judicial network. Thank you for the question you have raised from the corner of an ordinary citizen, a layman – will justice or judgment be available to him? It will. Where there aren't enough cases, enough resources to have a judicial unit or a basic court, judges' days will be organized. This is what is important for the citizens of Luciana, namely Guce and the citizens of Apatino and some of the other settlements mentioned here. If God gives life to the economy of these places at some point, I am convinced that the state will get the strength and resources to establish a judicial unit or a primary court in those places. I apologize for the time we've been over.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27382	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27383	You see, I'm sure Mr Petronijevic and the SPS parliamentary group won't be able to vote for the amendment. For this amendment, which they supported, they will not be able to vote because the amendment has proposed a committee. The Prime Minister accepted this, and the Constitutional Affairs Committee has declared that it is in line with the constitutional and legal system and has become an integral part of the bill. So the whole discussion about it is groundless, when you're looking at it from that angle. When seen from another angle, and we will see this, and when we consider the next amendment, which among other things has been submitted by the JS parliamentary group, including the chairman of the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, where other than one of the technical mistakes that was hidden in that amendment, which was corrected by the amendment committee because they forgot to fix the point concerning the Kragujevac and to throw out Kragujevac and put it in with the Arangelovac, the only other intervention is with regard to the Kovavica judicial unit. Everything else is practically identical to the amendment. It is strange that out of the 60 amendments to Article 3 only the amendment proposed by the JS parliamentary group, Mr Petrovic is the chairman of the board, that this amendment should be adopted. I urge that, by the end of today's debate, all of us MPs still consider, read other amendments. There are good amendments to those amendments that are not currently accepted by the government or not accepted by the board, but there is a possibility that we can convince ourselves by the time we vote to accept another good amendment. I don't think that should look bad in any way. We all want the judiciary to work better. Here I mentioned the question of a judicial unit when the court in Kovin can't be established, at least a judicial unit. We will also be in an illogical situation that colleagues from Kovin, who are currently enrolling in the Vojvodina Bar, are practically being tried at their basic court in Smederev. No, there's no problem. I'm sure the basic court in Smederev when he's setting up defenders under his service will take the whole area into account, and the lawyers from the Vojvodina Bar, from the Kovin area, will set up the same area. However, I think the bigger problem is the one I talked about, which is for better and more efficient work by co-operation between the police administration, the prosecution and all those who have certain powers, especially with regard to the successful implementation of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, I am primarily talking about the Code of Criminal Procedure and then everything else. Again, I must say that we were somewhat disabled in the work of the Justice Committee because the Justice Committee today came out with a number of amendments. We have not had a situation for the Committee of Justice to consider amendments to all MPs, to see what the Justice Committee will do and, in time, if necessary, to fix and improve even the amendment of the Committee, to try to do so in a better way. Today we will have a situation to discuss the next amendments to the article. 4, 13, 14, 19, we declare it immediately like this. One who has not possibly been on the Justice Committee or who is not a member of the Justice Committee will not be able to state his position on these amendments, and we have a situation that, for example, in Article 4, when it comes to the order, there will be no possibility of even being corrected by the board, that only the Supreme Court in Belgrade is competent to judge disputes on copyright and related rights. Right now, there's a possibility that it can be fixed, to be corrected until we get there. When we get there, there won't be any way to fix it. All other senior courts, except for the High Court in Belgrade, cannot judge copyright. The Supreme Court in Novi Sad, the Supreme Court in Nis, I'm talking about bigger places where personnel training is better, they won't be able to judge. Not only that, but in terms of deciding to ban the breaking up of the press and some other things. In that sense, we'll have article 13. I speak in time not to get to the point where we're running out of time. We have in Article 13 cases in which no decision on courts has been taken by the local court until the date of the application of this law. No more talking about real and local courts as it was in the bill. Either there was a mistake in the law, so it was listed as real and meaty or we missed it really and meatly here. There are some things that change and real jurisdiction. Is that what it takes or doesn't need? At this point, I am trying to underline everything that is in the proposal for an amendment committee, so that we do not see and pass a mistake because it will apply from January 1st, and in terms of Article. I'll say 14th and 15th when it comes to order, because there's no principle compared to the article. 14th and 15th. They're different attitudes. It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27384	National MP Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27385	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I feel the need to and as chairman of the board, and more like the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, I respond to my esteemed colleague, Mikovic, when he said amendments to the JS parliamentary club were adopted to Article 3 of the law. I must say because of the public that when the amendment was given, the Committee also had in mind many amendments from other MPs from other parliamentary groups who individually put amendments on the part of Raca both Bogatic and Kovacica. I am very pleased to say to the public that when he proposed this amendment in this context, the JS Parliament Club had in mind for all of Serbia that we did not want to be a patriots' locals and that only with amendments we address the Ministry and the National Assembly from those places where we have MPs. The unique Serbia, or parliamentary club, has no MPs from the municipality of Rač, neither Bogatic, Kovacica, etc. Not even from the county of Cupri. We looked at what was best in this reform to make our contribution. We're glad the board recognized that, too. Mr. Mikovic, when criticising the work of the board when it comes to the other amendments, had the opportunity to come here at nine o'clock this morning to present his opinion. He was probably busy with some earlier commitments, so he could not participate in the work of the board, but there were other representatives of his parliamentary group and as much as I remember for these amendments, and some voted so that they were supported by representatives of the DS parliamentary group. (President: Time.) So that's what you have ahead of you. I think this contribution not only to JS but also to the committees to improve the text of the law. I hope the ministry sees all the discussions that will come and after this one of mine for other proposals and amendments find an excuse to adopt others. (President: Time.) I know there was a dilemma about whether there would be a judicial unit in Kanjija. There's nothing left to talk about. I'm way out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27386	Replica, Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27387	The fact is, I was talking about the amendments I've made and here in the plenary session, when there was talk in the debate in the principles. All of this is listed and I expected - for music and mosquito is music, and when the debate was on the Justice Committee, the same, even the principle debate on all the proposed solutions I discussed and drew attention to what should be done. I have also given concrete examples here that it is necessary to correct Article 14, so that Mr Milenkovic, President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, is not elected for a big vacation, or for a week. It is good that practically my amendment, truth in another form, and that there will be no re-election of people who have been elected, the truth, is treated differently with the prosecutors who have been elected, or the same attitude is not accepted. When my amendment to Article 14 was rejected, one argument was rejected, and at the Committee's session, when the amendment was adopted, an argument was given contrary to the government's argument. Namely, the Government said – there is no need to fix Article 14(4), because, my God, a choice has been made, means attitude 5 is correcting that position 4, and later it was determined on the Committee that it should be fixed. Well, now, he can't -- half the fish, half the girl. Either you need to or you don't need to fix it. (President: Time.) In any case, I believe that I was right not only about that amendment, but also about many other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27388	Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27389	Yes, about the amendment, very short. Just to thank the Ministry, we lost here in the debate, where they accepted the amendment of the Justice Committee and now we have a post-festum debate on what the Ministry has accepted. That's what we're grateful for, and the board, I just want to help, is uniquely doing it. It is not true that the amendment was adopted on the basis of a proposal from only one parliamentary group. I have as an example an amendment to Article 3 submitted by the MPs Tanja Radovanovic and Milan Kovacevic. The amendment was also incorporated into this amendment proposed by the Committee and adopted. There are such amendments, various, political, here parliamentary groups, several MPs, so, simply for the public's sake, I repeat that this is not true, and I do not see the meaning of the post-festum debate when the Ministry accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27390	The word has Mirko Chikiriz after the amendment. I don't know why you've been so provoked by this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27391	Thank you, Chairman. I, on behalf of our parliamentary group, said in principle that we have tried really from an absolutely objective point of view to look at the territory of all Serbia and the amendments we have submitted do not concern at all the municipalities, cities or cities from which we, as the national representatives of parliament, are represented. I expected in this debate to work out local patriotism, that everyone advocates exclusively for their place and not to look through the prism of objectivity and the present tone of discussion of distinguished colleagues was most often showing it. What is good is that the Committee on Justice has proposed such an amendment, that the minister had heard and I must say that, in part, this was accepted and the amendment of our parliamentary group, because we felt that the so far Municipal Court in Varvarin should remain as a judicial unit for the municipalities of Cicevic and Varvarin and we gave a detailed explanation in the amendment proposal and that is something that encourages it. In further discussion, when our amendments come to the agenda, I will plead and give an explanation, with what I would really say, to the public, that it was not an easy job or a working group or a ministry. If we were to listen to MPs today and analyze who stands for what, we couldn't find any unique conclusions at all, because it seems to me that the differences would be greater than in the proposal for this judicial network. Also, I think it should be kept in mind and that the work of court notaries will soon begin, that they will carry out a significant part of the affairs of the current court jurisdiction, that there will also be judicial days and that is something that will certainly make these disproportions and this poor impression when a municipality or place loses the court or judicial unit, which may in some way mitigate it. That is why our parliamentary group, when we further explain our amendments, will use not local patriotism, and we will not only address the voters we represent in the National Assembly, but we will indeed try to take a very objective look at the territory of all Serbia and give the cold heads the best suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27392	Srdjan Mikovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27393	What I'm saying is absolutely true, we can see for ourselves. Here, to read - points 2, 28, 43 and 65 have been attacked in the amendment of the JS parliamentary group. The proposal for a law in the same way as it was proposed to the Committee's amendments. True, it has been forgotten to intervene at point 26. Because the basic court in Kragujevac cannot also be for the territory of the municipality of Rač if it crosses the basic court in Arangelovac. The only practical intervention compared to this amendment is the introduction of a judicial unit in Kovacica, nothing else. When I speak, I try not to tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27394	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, you asked - why did this amendment of the Committee cause so many debates? Because probably many of us will not afterwards appear according to our amendments, as I will not, because this amendment of the Committee has just managed to bring together a significant number of amendments that we have submitted and to meet citizens and the need for citizens to exercise the right to justice and justice and everything that bothers them in this area, in the best way possible. It was not easy to find the most adequate solutions, but we welcome this positive intention and thank you, I, above all, on behalf of the citizens of the Municipality of Bogatić, because in this way my amendment, in which I will no longer report to explain it, has just been adopted and became an integral part of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27396	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27397	Everyone on the Justice Committee voted in favour of this amendment. This amendment is good. I said, earlier when I talked about the amendments -- it's a good thing that some four judicial units, which existed until today, were able to preserve and fight that they still existed. What's wrong is that 40 judicial units are still being abolished. I cannot be satisfied until the end of the amendment by the Committee, because the amendment of the Committee addresses the issue of Čupre, Kovačica, Barvarin, Bogatic, but does not resolve the question of 40 municipalities in which judicial units are abolished. Whether this amendment has been brought in one way or another, we MPs know well, we who have been on the Committee and we who have been participating in congregation work for years. counterpart Petar Petrovic, who is the chairman of the Committee, and the United Serbia parliamentary group, who practically submitted an almost identical amendment or similar amendment, managed to isolate with the government that the amendment would be accepted. That is why such an amendment was accepted on the Committee. If the Committee had been able to do what the opposition asked for other municipalities to be included, in the sense that they were given judicial units, if the ruling majority wanted to, it would have been accepted, but it simply did not want to, and it was not accepted. What are the options of the Unique Serbia that she is the only one who is precisely acting at the government to make such a difference, it remains for each of us to interpret. But the fact is that all these judicial units that are being introduced are also listed in the Single Serbia amendment that the Single Serbia submitted when other MPs of the other 60 amendments. So, there are 60 amendments to this article, practically this is accepted, and the other is not accepted, and I hope that next time we will succeed in some way to convince the government to accept our views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27398	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27399	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to point out a few things, the truth is, let's see what's going on. The truth is that the amendment of the Single Serbia parliamentary group asked to resolve the issue of Arangelovac, Kruševac, Paracino and Sapca. However, the amendment does not discuss Kovacica at all, and the amendment also resolves the issue of Kovacica. Thus, both the Committee and the Government have shown a clear attitude towards a more national environment, where you have that Kovac is a typical example, that Kovacica is actually a Vojvodina in small or Serbia in small, where different members of national communities live. You have one place in which the main ones are spoken by Hungarians, mostly Romanians, and there are plenty of Roma and other national communities. This amendment is a responsibility to differences in Serbia and to the real needs of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to report later on other amendments, but I wanted to take the opportunity to say one more thing. When it comes to misdemeanor courts, it has also made a proposal, a step forward in that direction, and in this way I owe it to the citizens of Kovacica and the citizens where the minority are concentrated to make this one argument that is contrary to the adoption of only amendments to the Single Serbia. So the amendment is much broader and looks at things in a completely different context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27400	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27401	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and I will support, of course, this amendment. I was present on the Committee, and I listened to a debate that was constructive and good. I also see how the debate is going, and I just want to make a few observations. I disagree that if there is a judicial unit or a primary court in a small municipality that will then preserve life, there will remain people to live because some intellectuals remain, etc. It's like we all don't know what's been going on for the last 50 years in Serbia. It's like we don't know what the migration was like. It's as if we don't know why the people moved out of these places and why something that used to be a tradition of being, say, a court, a school or a hospital, is no longer needed to exist today, unfortunately, these institutions of the state in those places, because they become a burden and are too expensive for the state. That is why we are doing this judicial reform, because Serbia today is not the same as it was 20, 30 or 50 years ago. Without economy and economic activity, there will be no people in these places anymore. A few months ago, if you remember, in a debate I presented data from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts on the situation in our villages. I'll just say one thing. A few hundred thousand, two hundred or three hundred thousand, then I had the exact information, I have it somewhere, I didn't know this was going to be a debate so I could bring it back, but we have in Serbian villages about three hundred thousand guys who are over 50 years old. So, guys who are over 50 years old, who have never married and who have never managed to make a family. It is a situation in Serbian villages, in Serb municipalities. The village of Osipanica in Smederev is the largest village in the town of Smederev. Up until 20 years ago, there were five primary schools, and now barely enough for one class, and still the largest village in the municipality is one of the largest in Serbia. If you didn't know, it must be in the 20 largest villages in Serbia. It's a situation in Serbia. We here politically now – let there be a unit here, for some reason only to be seen by citizens in our places to talk about it. No one can explain to me that it is easier for the Pancians to go to Novi Sad than for Belgrade, or that it is easier for the Kovins to go to Pancevo than for Smederovo to seek justice in court. Do you know how many Kovacs work in Smederev, in the companies in Smederev? One half of the population for sure. And that's even in some villages away from Smederev than just the place of Kovin. A few thousand of them must be working at the Smederev firm right now. I'm sure it's harder for the people of Miri to get to the basic court that's in charge of them than for the Kovins in Smederevo. It must be harder for them, and they certainly need more time and money to get there. What I think is the problem with our judiciary, and that's what I said when I talked about this set of laws, that's efficiency. Citizens expect these courts to be more efficient, to have justice available to them, faster and faster to solve cases. Let's get this job done. We are awaiting the opening of Chapter 2324 as regards judicial reform and then Serbia's EU approach, and we are already going with this judicial reform in the right way, because we all know how many years ago and how many problems we have had. This is the first step, but after that it is much more important, and I would like to appeal to the minister and to everyone in the ministry that, like us MPs, they start to take care, how these same courts work, how fast, how effective they are, and how quickly they solve our citizens' problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27402	Thank you. The word is Judith Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was on this Committee of Justice and of course I voted in favour of this amendment, since also part of the amendment of the LDP MPs was adopted in this way with this amendment to the Committee on Justice, specifically when it comes to the judicial unit in Kovacica. However, this amendment actually says that the heavy trench struggle has been fought around all these basic courts and judicial units that are now being created by this new bill. I would just like to remind myself, in 2008, when it started with judicial reform, Serbia had 34 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, which was about twice the European standard. As far as the geographical location of the courts is concerned, Serbia has essentially had about twice as many courts as the European standard requires. And that is when the reform of the judiciary envisioned 34 basic courts and 102 judicial units. This means that, instead of 138 municipal courts, 34 basic courts and 102 judicial units appeared. So about a number of states where the citizens of this country had the opportunity to get to some kind of struggle for their rights to the courts. However, with this new bill, what happens is that you actually increase the number of basic courts from 34 to 66, in fact you double, while reducing the number of judicial units from 45 judicial units is less foreseen by this bill. In fact, you have fewer judicial units now, and when we add it all up, we have about 92 geographical locations there, what basic courts, what judicial units. So that's interesting for that reason, because you left, in the meantime, that is, you force the number of judges, as it was found in 2008. This means that you are returning to those positions before the start of the judicial reform, and that means that in some parts of the bill you are also cutting off and opposing these European standards. In fact, you now have the number of judges you had in 2008, 2009 and you have fewer basic courts and fewer judicial units. There is one problem, whether or not we want those European standards, or whether we will follow them or not to the end of those standards. I really agree with the fact that some municipality or city in Serbia will get a basic court or judicial unit, thus not getting a chance for some prosperity economically or culturally, or whatever. That's not enough. So it's not enough just that there's a court or judicial unit. The problem, however, is that when you seek to cut costs, you call for irrational spending of funds due to all these judicial units, you reduce the number of judicial units, you increase the number of basic courts, and you increase the number of judges. There's just some imbalance and one category with the other comes into some kind of cohesion. It's also interesting to say that out of the 45 judicial units that you've abolished, in fact 19 judicial units you've abolished on the territory of Vojvodina. Now you're returning one court unit, it's the Blacksmith. That'd be fine, at least that's what you're getting back. But what's the problem? The problem is that now that you look at this Article 3, you will no longer have a judicial unit in Bachua in Bačko Palanca, you will not have, for example, at Plandište, in Nova Crnja, in Choka, in Bačko Petrovac, in Beocin, Zablja, Sremski Karlovci, Temerin, Titell, you will not have in Ada, Kanjija, in Backo Topoli. So, of the 45 judicial units that are being abolished, it's 19, that is, already 18 on the territory of the Vojvodina. This relates to some strange criteria when referring to determining the need of a municipality, a city for a judicial unit, or a fundamental court. Is the administration of Vojvodina the biggest problem of these municipalities, that is, cities that will in this way remain depriving of the judicial unit, that is, the basic court? We have no problem in supporting the idea that the territorial geographical location of the courts is in line with European standards. We really can't get past that. But the problem is when this reform stops somewhere, let's just say in this part, such as reducing the number of judicial units. The problem is also with this reform that continues from 2008 to 2009, which somehow does not explain the criteria and continues to be poor solutions in continuity, while considering good solutions that could build a clearer reform, as far as the judiciary is concerned. We have submitted an amendment, as regards the judicial unit which is now included on the Justice Committee, in the geographical location of the courts, and on the Justice Committee, it is actually proposed, and you have accepted it as an integral part of the law. It is good that at least sometimes MPs are listened to, and to the Justice Committee and here in parliament at the plenary session, and it is good that sometimes you find a reason to adopt some, at least part of the amendment. In any case, it remains unclear why you have just decided for these places, to reward them with these judicial units, because, in fact, these judicial units are now being treated as some kind of reward, or some kind of political points for those who have struggled to form these judicial units in some places that are politically relevant to certain parties, or certain MPs. We are always opposed to that kind of law-writing, amending the law and making laws at all, because in that case it is not about any quality change, but it is about some political interests and a simple settlement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27404	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27405	I thank the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed a lot has been said, which I would refer to, so I will make an effort by respecting time, saying what is most important. It is very questionable in this area what European standards mean. I can agree with what's been said here, that 34 judges per 100,000 inhabitants are more than some Western European standard. I will point out that, for example, in Croatia, this figure is 38, in Slovenia 41 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Do they, which are EU Member States, not fit European standards? No, I don't. It is simply a difference in what is the judge in Serbia, Croatia or Slovenia, and what is in Spain. Because one judge in Spain is accompanied by ten judicial assistants and administrative workers, with barely three of us. So they have fewer judges, but more administrators. That's the difference that exists between those two systems. It is no accident that I took these three countries, Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, because they came out of one legal, one judicial system a decade ago and a half ago. That's where our concept differs. Slovenia, which is almost a decade of members of the Union, does not change this proportion, so that here and as some kind of standards are established, that is, that is, in continuity exists in this part of Europe, it is respected. Europe accepts that. You can't all go down to number. It's been said, I guess it's more reckless, that it stays, say, like, Bucky Palanca without a judicial unit, but she gets court. I'll give you a quick review, if I'm not limited in time. (President: You're not. ) Therefore, some municipalities and statistics are mentioned, i.e. the bill says there will be no judicial unit in them anymore, and on the other hand statistics on how to justify it. There's a statistic that doesn't agree with that, but there's still going to be a judicial unit for some other reason. I will refer to several municipalities where the judicial unit is said to be shut down, and there will be judicial days. Let's say, the community of Shadows. If you have in a lawsuit, or somewhere, it counts that the judge needs to have an inflow equal to his norm set, if the norm was earlier in some more orderly period of 25 cases a monthly inflow per judge, I will only give some information that speaks quite the opposite. The municipality of Secchanj, which has a judicial unit and is scheduled to shut down and organise days of judges, has 4.08 cases monthly inflow. Municipality of Nova Crnja – 3.67 items per month inflow. I'm talking about a classic lawsuit. Municipality of Bač – 3,92 objects monthly inflow. Municipality of Baki Petrovac – 2.61 subject to monthly inflow. Beocin, something more – 5.92. Srbobran – 5.5; Titel – 3,17; Plandište – 3; Irig – 3,75; Caves – 1,93 items monthly inflow. Let's be a little rational. Is there much more to be paid in such a place to organize the days of judges? You betcha. Statistics are available to everyone. I thanked and realized the discussion was extremely well-intentioned and constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27406	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27407	I contacted the minister before, because he is carrying out false things in relation to the formation of basic courts and judicial units in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. No matter how many times I read this law, I can't see and understand what this is about, especially since I attended today's session of the Justice Committee, and many who don't give themselves the right to say that there was a trench fight there. It's not. We agreed on this amendment and decided accordingly to get Kovacica a judicial unit. There are very important reasons for that. I don't see if there's a colleague who's trying to fight two nations living in Vojvodina, but that's impossible. They also appreciated their reasons where there are the most numerous Slovaks in Kovacica, that Kovacica is twice as big as Bačka Petrovec and that she, unlike Bačka Petrovac, has an excellent court building and that, why not say, is a protected monument of culture. As for the intention of entering the public's ears that Vojvodina was punished, no, Vojvodina was punished by the 2008 tsunami, the disaster of judicial reform, which is why the whole of Europe jumped on us. Today we are correcting these mistakes, and we will only see when we receive judicial judgments from judges who have lost their jobs because of it and when we receive judicial judgments in which we will see how much we have to pay for this fantastic judicial reform that we have had the opportunity to see, someone professionally and not someone. I don't understand how Vojvodina is now punished, if by that reform of the judiciary, it still had eight basic courts in force, and under this law it gets seven more and now there are 15 basic courts. So, the citizens of Vojvodina can absolutely be satisfied whether there is an ideal or not ideal, especially when you have to repair the disaster you had before and it is unclear who is being sent a message that Vojvodina is being punished. We didn't have a court in Backo Palanca under this bill. In Article 3 we are now talking about, there is a proposal that the basic court in Bačka Palanca exists for the territory of the municipality of Bac and Backo Palanka. We didn't have a basic court in Vienna, and now we're going to have one. We didn't have a basic court in Verbas, and now we're going to have it, not to say in Srem. I don't know what's catastrophic when we had one basic court, and now we're going to have a basic court in Ruma and a basic court in Stari Pazova and a basic court in Shida, along with the only one in Sremska Mitrovica, so we're going to have a basic court in Senta. So, 15 basic courts in the AP Vojvodina, and they can only envy the other parts of Serbia's territory how much improved the situation is and how closer justice is now and how more efficient and economically possible it is to conduct the procedure to the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. So it's not clear to me how the letter of the law differs from what individuals here say behind the pay phone. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27408	Thank you very much. The word was asked by Mrs Judita Popovic, as a replica, I presume?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27409	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the fact that 19 judicial units, and the territory of the Vojvodina is being abolished, and seven new basic courts, the Vojvodina is getting and that's fine. Still, you have 12 municipalities or cities of populated towns that won't even have those judicial units. If you followed closely what I was talking about, the bottom line is that we advocate to finally explain things about how much we need the courts, the geographical locations of the courts, how much we need the basic courts and how much we need the judicial units, and how much we need the judge. So there is the basic problem that we are constantly discussing, and so when the seats and areas were discussed in 2009, even though the number of judicial units was then increased, and in fact all those courts that were once municipal, except for those 34, simply turned into judicial units, then there was this huge crowd over what we were going to do if municipal courts disappeared in the municipalities and cities of Serbia. And now it's actually happening that you're actually reducing the number of these geographical locations, but you're leaving the number of judges. I think we'll agree on that, Mr. Minister, that we have a common interest in reforming the Serbian judiciary. Obviously, if we had some problem with how this reform should be implemented, and it would be good if the reform never started from scratch again and I didn't think that we alone could go, but simply had to be upgraded to what was good. The point is, not that some of the places in Vojvodina are now being given not by the judicial unit, but by strengthening the possibility of access to justice and to the citizens of Vojvodina. So the point is, not in the courthouse and the unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27410	Thank you very much. Milos Aligrudic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27411	It is nice that the Justice Committee has made an amendment that is all satisfied with the five cases listed there, including the Varvarin case for which I have submitted the amendment and which will be discussed later. I can certainly thank my colleagues for having the understanding that all the criteria have been met that Varvarin has a court, let alone a judicial unit, but the judicial unit has been requested and returned. I'm glad it's accepted. I just can't figure out one thing, which is why we who submit an amendment that has an internal logic that has all the justifications won't be accepted, and that takes this wide-ranging action for everyone to accept something that's reasonable. Where is the basis of parliamentaryism?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27412	Dr. Janko Veselinović answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27413	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, we have listened to both the Minister and the individual SNS MPs, which is why a significant number of municipalities in Vojvodina will have no place for trial. These are to remind the municipalities of Bač, Srbobran, Plandište, Sechenj, Nova Crnja, Baki Petrovac, Beocin, Frog, Temerin, Titel, Alibunar, Irig, Caves, Ada, Kanjiža, Apatin, Odžaci, 18 of 47 municipalities. Now we've been listening to the argument that some municipalities won't have a court because some other places have better buildings and their buildings are even protected by the state. Yes, we heard it from the SNS. Is this a criterion conducted by the minister, or is the criteria currently in place for who is in these municipalities in power, because we see that no municipality in which the SNS is not in power has been granted this new network of courts under the amendments? We can't, Mr. Minister, accept such facts as these concerning Backo Petrovec and other municipalities in Vojvodina. That still means you've been saving on something you shouldn't be saving on. This means that residents, citizens of the Municipality of Baki Petrovac, and other municipalities, but especially Baki Petrovac, mentioned earlier, will have a problem with achieving the use of language and letter, a tradition of trial in the municipality that has not been interrupted for hundreds of years will be compromised. You did it with this, removing, or abolishing the judicial unit in Bakko Petrovac. There is no reason for this decision likely, in the fact that the entire EU has jumped to Serbia because it has made the judicial reform as it was done in the previous term. Are you ministers, perhaps you should have responded to that? To what extent did you, through these laws, make changes that would have been drastic changes to that legislation that had been adopted in the previous term? We have found that these changes are more cosmetic, except for the network of courts, which, above all, has been done according to some criteria that we find difficult to explain. Of course, because of Kosovo Mitrovica, we know that law was to be passed. We hear that voting on these laws will be before all the other laws, we don't know maybe we have the wrong information. But in any case, they didn't take criteria that could be defended, and everything that you and the MPs of the ruling coalition, above all SNS, are trying to say in defense of this proposal of the network of courts, is not in favor and it's very difficult to explain to the citizens of these municipalities that I mentioned. So more than 40% of the municipalities in Vojvodina will have neither the primary court nor the judicial unit. You can talk about restrictions, savings and everything else, but tell us ministers, here you said that you were in Vrbas before the election campaign, did you, before the Vrbas elections, say that you visited the court in Vrbas, believe in regular activities, could it be explained that your colleagues at Belgrade-Vrbas had made 5700 kilometers on the route to visit Vrbas right before the election campaign, and could there be any court in Vojvodina with that money? By the way, there's no mileage, no first Deputy Prime Minister, no Prime Minister, and neither is your mileage in a report that I received from the competent republican authority. Perhaps your journey was out of date for which I requested a report from November 1st to 13th. In any case, Mr. Minister, I agree that there is a need to save, I don't think this is a way to save in this way, that thus endangering the possibility of survival and life in these areas and the possibility of using language and letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27414	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27415	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, I really don't know, were given an unusual and picturesque example that my colleagues and I personally crossed over five thousand miles into an election campaign, so whether this money could have been done for a city, or a municipality where there was a pre-election campaign, and even in the area of the judiciary, it sounds a little strange to me that party money is funded by the judiciary because the campaign is run by political parties, but probably, everyone is looking at it from their corner. There's one thing I find to be false and it's a few minutes ago. I quote: a large number of municipalities will have no place for trial. I believe that every municipality in Serbia has a place for trial, not every judicial unit or primary court, but there is a place for trial and it will remain in the future as long as the municipality exists. The truth has also been told that the planned return, i.e. the establishment of basic courts or judicial units, is only in places where the SNS, before which I was proposed as minister and elected here in the National Assembly, is intended only for municipalities in which the SNS is in power. I want to believe that this error was made with complete indiscretion or perhaps uninformed. You have a city where a basic or municipal court was abolished four years ago, like Ruma, and as far as I know, the SNS is not in power or if it is, someone can tell me. I'm scheduled to establish a basic court in Sainta, and I'm not aware of whether the SNS is in power in Sainta, but I still agree that it's an oversight, that I don't really order cities and municipalities where that's not the case, and that's why I said that I believe that this was a mistake in a clear disregard, but no one has ever been guided by that principle. Moreover, the establishment of a basic court in Vrbas is envisioned by a draft law passed by the government as early as April of the National Assembly. At that time, another ruling coalition was in power in Vorbas. So, at that time when the government officially proposed a new law, namely a new bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors to the National Assembly, it did not change. Therefore, I am convinced that there was no intention behind this, but the facts speak exactly as I put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27416	The word has a folk MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27417	All right, Minister, we can make a point and tell which law we're discussing right now, whether that law that was withdrawn from the procedure or that law that was put before the MPs again. In that sense, we could tie ourselves to two different laws. So those laws you pulled out of the procedure are no longer in the procedure. Is that right? On the other hand, when I was talking about municipalities that wouldn't have room for trial, of course I didn't think they'd be able to go to court in their community. First of all, that's what I meant. I may not have been precise enough. Here, now I'm precise. So 18 municipalities in Vojvodina won't have a court, not a basic court, not a judicial unit in the territory of their municipality. I'll be very specific about going to the Vrbas and going to the campaign. So this is the government document of the Republic of Serbia, 5,720 kilometers across official vehicles. This is not SNS money spent, but money from the Republika Srpska budget for party purposes. I think the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Honorable Minister, should deal with this. We requested an emergency session of the Finance Committee. One copy of this document, as justice minister, will be handed over to you as soon as I copy it, so you can see what this is all about. So 5,720km, based on existing records, crossed over the government of the Republic of Serbia to have its ministers campaign in Vrbas from 1 November to 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27418	I'm sorry. Let's stick to the subject. I'm not saying it doesn't matter what you say, but we're talking about a network of courts, and you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27419	I agree, Chairman. I'm only saying this in the context of the fact that in the previous debate, the minister said in principle with pride that he visited the court in Vrbas. I don't blame him for that, but what were his colleagues doing in Verbas? What were two vehicles to the Kosovo and Metohija offices in Vrbas doing? That's what I'm asking you. Did they visit the court in Vorbas?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27420	The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when we look at this amendment, I'm glad Kovaca will be given a judicial unit, because I asked for it with my amendment. However, I am not satisfied because many municipalities will be left without a judicial unit. In the debate, I said in principle that 18 municipalities in Vojvodina would not have a judicial unit, and in this way some 350,000 people of Vojvodina were put in a difficult position when it comes to the availability of justice. They will all have to travel tens of kilometers to, for example, exercise the right to alimony, get mothers to have custody of a child, get the right to unpaid earnings by an employer or exercise their right to be fired illegally. They'll have to travel citizens, in some cases judges, and they'll have to travel lawyers. I have the impression that it will be the hardest for citizens and that all the burden of passing this law will literally be imposed on the citizens. It's one aspect, and the other aspect is that it will lead to the institutional collapse of municipalities. We are all happy to talk about decentralisation, about even regional development, but obviously that's all he wants to talk about, and that's a little bit of what he's working on. I don't think this law contributes to the even development of Serbia. On the contrary, it only in some ways promotes the departure of people from the place where they were born. I agree, that's what we were talking about, that lack of work is the biggest reason for moving out of some city or municipality. However, when you talk to people, you will see that this is not the only reason for them to leave their environments in large cities, but also that they do not have adequate access to institutions, education, health and justice. You somehow get the impression that the state has forgotten you. It is the state that should create conditions not to empty certain parts of Serbia. The state is the most responsible for this. I have the impression that citizens living in these municipalities where there will be no judicial units will taste bitterly that the state has left them at large. It was about days of judging, but I didn't see anywhere that there would be an obligation for the days of judgment to be in places where there weren't any judicial units. I get the impression that it's by the system can be, and it doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27422	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27423	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to start with this last thing that's been said. The organisation of judgment days is not prescribed by law, but by the rules of procedure. That is the intention of the court's Rules of Procedure, where there is a need, so the reasons for Celebrities and rationality, where there is no judicial unit, or the basic court, are to be held on trial days. Therefore, the fact is that justice will remain available even to smaller places where it is not intended to survive judicial units or in which there is no basic court, so that the needs of citizens to exercise their right to alimony, to unpaid earnings, to grant custody of children, and how they will be satisfied. It is the state that should take care of every part of its territory, all its citizens, and according to its capabilities. Unfortunately, we witnessed situations where the state did not take care of cities with 70, 80, or more than 100,000 inhabitants during some periods. Then what could she possibly have hoped for in a smaller municipality? In addition to justice, education, health, culture and traffic, we will all agree on something that is important, traffic infrastructure. I believe that a citizen of every municipality in Serbia would wish there was an airport on the territory of his municipality. It's completely unrealistic. That's the request. We simply have to stand in front of a mirror, to know Serbia as it is, to stop living in some past time where it was economically, industrially, so if we want, culturally, educationally, healthly much stronger than it is today, that we do not lose what is much bigger, more numerous and more significant for something less, and I am the one who came to Belgrade from a small municipality. We need to be as rational as possible. I respect every request, but once again to mention, where the work for the judges is, and where there is no judicial unit or basic court, the trial will be organised, and through the amendment of the Registrar, which is in the jurisdiction of the ministry, or the minister, we will prescribe such a binding norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27424	The word is by MP Ana Novkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27425	Mr. Minister, I absolutely agree with you that every place can't have an airport, but I, as someone who comes from inside and lives there, will really fight with all my strength for those people who live there. It is inadmissible for me that 350,000 people of Vojvodina will not have adequate access to justice. I know they don't have an airport, but I think they have to have at least a judicial unit, because you know that most citizens are now addressing basic courts to protect their fundamental rights. I know exactly what the roads are like in both Serbia and Vojvodina, and that's why I'm sorry because these citizens, they're going to have to travel for tens of miles, and they're going to have to pay for it. It's not about small municipalities. Odzaci municipality has about 30,000 inhabitants and is 37km away from Somboro, Beocin, which has 25-26 000 inhabitants. Are these small municipalities? Believe me, I'm going to fight for even the smallest community and I think it's the state that needs to contribute that all of us living inside have about the same conditions for life as those in larger cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27426	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I listened carefully to the explanation of my predecessors and got the impression from their presentation, especially from the opposition, that we had damaged Vojvodina, or that we were damaged in Vojvodina. With that in mind, I have to say that Vojvodina has so far had eight basic courts, and now there are 15. So, that argument simply doesn't stand for me as someone who advocated the speciality of the Vojvodina and when others, who are now so fiercely defending citizens and citizens, as they say the Vojvodina, when others have advocated the full derrogation of the autonomy of Vojvodina, therefore, as someone who has principledly advocated the rights of the Vojvodina and the people who live there, I must say that Vojvodina has nothing to do with this proposal. So far, she has had eight 34 courts in Serbia, and now she has 15 out of 66. So the proportion remained the same, just that argument does not stand. It also complained that a judicial unit had been abolished in Backo Palanca. I'm not a doctor of law, I'm not even a professor at law school, but if someone's being assigned the General Court in Backo Palanca, they'll stop him anyway. She has to disappear to form a primary court. I don't know what they were going to say about it, is Bucky Palanca not supposed to have a court in order to remain a judicial unit or do they think there should be both a court and a judicial unit? I say again, I'm not a law professor, I haven't even doctored, but I think it's almost impossible to have a judicial unit and a primary court. There's a minister, so let him deny me if I'm wrong. As for the rest, I don't think this is the end, and if there is a change, everything is changing, the situation is changing, the population is changing, demographic change, etc., parliament in Serbia will continue to exist. If there has been some error in the number of cases, by demographics, geography, etc., if any new circumstances arise, and they are possible, I do not believe that we are capable of making changes and additions to this law and establishing a new judicial unit, some new court, if there are reasons for statistics, demographics, geography, so that this can happen in Vojvodina and Serbia and in this, I, who have lived in Vojvodina since birth, have no impression that something has gone wrong in the position of Vojvodina. I'm afraid this is about the next one, which is -- I don't admit court, I just admit my own parties, I don't admit all the other courts, even if they're independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27428	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27429	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the predecessors knew what rationalization was, we wouldn't have come to this in a state of justice, both in the economy and in anything else. Every branch of the economy needs to know what rationalization means, to behave rationally and to implement a plan. Mr. Minister, they're not exactly naive, when they're lying and they're not telling the truth, there's a little demagogy, but about that path. I cannot understand those who criticise that in the province they were for their reigns of eight basic courts. He's 15 today. How is the number eight greater than 15? I can't figure that out. There were 26 in central Serbia, and now there are 58 basic courts. How can you say something, if there is a judicial unit in every municipality, that there is a court day, that they will be in the municipality, that citizens in their municipality will, when they do, come to solve their problems? I can't understand that you who have done evil in the judiciary are now saying that this is wrong which is now rational and which is improved and is going towards some European values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27430	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, then we move on to the next part of the debate. The 3rd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Nevena Stojanovic, Vojislav Vujic, Zoran Vasic and Mr Djordje Kosanic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27431	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have only reported to clarify that the JS parliamentary group has submitted this amendment, and given the circumstances, most of what it has proposed has been accepted as an amendment to the Committee, with amendments from other parliamentary groups. There was a speech here, so even an expression was used – lobbying, that the JS parliamentary group lobbyed the ministry to accept part of the amendment of the parliamentary group, which is absolutely not true, because none of the JS MPs absolutely spoke to anyone from the ministry, we even received an amendment to praise that we have identified certain problems, which means that we have come very thoroughly to study and review the draft law on basic courts and public prosecutors. We are pleased to have stabbed the problem in the middle and that most of our proposals have been accepted. However, what is somewhat surprising to me in the discussion of some distinguished colleagues and colleagues is when they talk about why there are no judicial units in certain municipalities, as if they have not heard what Mr. Minister was saying when he exhibited and came out with statistics on how many cases in certain municipalities, or present judicial units. If in some current judicial units the inflow of litigation cases, if I remember correctly, between 1.9 and 5.5 cases a month, the question arises – what did these judges in these judicial units do and have so few cases? I'm telling you from experience that in some smaller places, unfortunately, after 12.00 hours, after half one, one, you can't find anyone in a court unit, and that's all the state pays. For that reason, we had to go as a state with this proposal. There's no money for Serbia to pay unhappiness. A judge in Belgrade who has 100 cases a month can't work for 100,000 dinars and judges in a small town, which has five or ten cases a month for the same money, and is also paid for by a dactylographer and a clerk and heating and a phone and everything. That state can't take it anymore. That's why rationalization had to be approached. Please, distinguished colleagues and colleagues from Vojvodina, don't just talk about there aren't enough judicial units in Vojvodina. Serbia exists from the Danube both west and south and east. And there isn't in all the municipalities of the judicial units. Please, so if the minister wanted to be personal, he could have put in his own municipality a Nova Varosh court unit or a basic court and said – here, I satisfied my citizens, my neighbors, my relatives. I could have, if I wanted to lobby and tell the minister – give in my Rijeka that we have a judicial unit or court, but it wasn't done, I didn't want to, and that's why I think this proposal is good, that the Ambassador's Club of Unity Serbia will know the problem well, and I hope that during the debate and the Ministry. I appeal to accept some more of the amendments that are well-founded, which are based on statistical data and some other data, and to be there if not the basic court, at least the judicial unit and how much we fix something that went wrong four years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27432	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Aleksandar Senić and Mladen Grujic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Anybody want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27433	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the essence of the SVM's submitted amendment to the return of several basic courts and judicial units to the North-Bak County. I primarily want to talk about the return of the basic court to Backo Topola for the territory of Backa Topola and Mali Ijoš. The proposed solution in the law does not provide for the re-establishment of the basic court in Backo Topola, contrary to the fact that the Municipality of Backo Topol meets to a greater extent the basic and additional criteria on the basis of which the bill was drawn up. Prior to the 2008 and 2009 judicial reform in the municipality court in Bačka Topoli, seven judicial posts were systematised. Baka Topola has 33,300 inhabitants, and along with Mali Ijoš municipality, the main court area in Bačka Topola would cover an area of 45,350 inhabitants. In addition, the bill, unfortunately, ignored 150 years of court tradition in Backo Topola, as well as the fact that the municipalities of Backo Topola and Mali Ijoš are multilingual environments through which the road corridor 10 passes. Of course, with this amendment, we don't want to tear down the concept of this law. We want to preserve those courts whose survival is rational, more than necessary. This solution would not prejudice the whole concept of judicial reform, which is indeed necessary, but would preserve those courts whose survival has historical and geographical justification. We, SVM MPs, believe that MPs, above all, should represent the interests of citizens and voters of those municipalities, cities and regions that give them the opportunity to be in the National Assembly. Since I come from Pachir, from the municipality of Backa Topola, first of all, I appeal to you once again, Mr. Minister, that we, citizens of the Bačka Topola municipality, come out to meet and adopt this amendment through which we ask that there be not only judicial units in Backo Topola, but to return to the basic court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27434	I thank you, Mr. Fremond. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27435	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, this is the first in a series of SVM amendments. We've submitted a total of nine, five of which are essential, and the other amendments follow these essential ones. What is our feeling is, like this a few hours after the debate began in particular, that there is one significant continuity and one significant discontinuity compared to the 2008 debate. Now I'm going to try to explain what I mean. On the one hand, if we compare today's debate with the debate five years ago, that's a lot of words, we can only conclude that the tendency to reduce the number of judicial institutions in municipalities, or in the cities of Serbia continues. So in 2008, a significant number of municipal courts were demoted to judicial units, and today a significant number of judicial units are abolished, with a significant number of basic courts being resoluted. But if we look at a collection of basic courts, or judicial units that are being abolished, then we can only come to the conclusion that 43 municipalities will not have judicial institutions. That I don't think is disputed and that's one fact. On the other hand, which is the same continuity compared to 2008, no SVM amendment is currently accepted. Of course, I can't say that makes us happy, since we haven't submitted a single amendment that we've been looking for something that's completely unreal. We didn't ask for the establishment of courts or judicial units in municipalities with tens of thousands of inhabitants. We didn't call or complain about the damage or the integrity of the Vojvodina. We were trying to try with arguments in several municipalities either to resuscitate the court or to survive the judicial unit. What is certainly discontinuity compared to five years ago is that two of our important initiatives in Vienna's relative municipality and the Senta municipality were accepted even when the bill was drawn up, that basic courts were re-founded in Vienna and in Senta. On the other hand, what is the same discontinuity and which gives us some hope that perhaps some of our amendments might be accepted is the fact that, through the Justice Committee, several municipalities have managed to vote for judicial units. So at this point, that's kind of our attitude. As far as the overall reform or concept of the new network of courts is concerned, the key question will be whether this reform will be more successful or less successful than the one in 2008. I think it will be extremely valuable when, at the end of this year, a cross-section of the situation is made, to determine on 1 January the number of pending cases by all basic courts, in order to be able to analyse all this in three or four years, and that we, too, our fellow MPs, are in a position to see if they were right when they proposed the establishment of new basic courts or judicial units. What is the fact that in this debate in particular, in this process that preceded this debate, no amendment relating to the establishment of a new basic court has been accepted. That's a fact. Therefore, there remains as many basic courts as it was in the draft law. I must say, it's not a big surprise, but it's certainly a disappointment. No surprise because it was held at the Justice Committee several months ago, it was March 21st, 2013. Mrs. Mirjana Ivić, deputy chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, before the draft law on seats and areas of courts went public, said at a session of the board on the one hand that the Supreme Council of the judiciary analysed the number and structure of the returned judges, and on the other hand that there would be 67 basic courts. That's what she said here in the Assembly on March 21st. In the end, that's how it happened. However, one basic court will be less due to a specific situation in Kosovo's Mitrovica. I think it's an important fact. On the other hand, it is also important that some amendments are accepted in relation to judicial units. So there will be four new judicial units compared to the bill. What's a surprise and a disappointment to us is an explanation that's why most of the amendment has been rejected. Namely, I must confess to the MPs that it is not an easy task with you, Mr Minister, here in Parliament to settle, because most of what you say, you are based on arguments and all your discussions are extremely reasoned. If a man reads the explanation for which some amendments have been rejected, I think there are a lot of arguments missing. A lot of arguments in terms of some figures, some exact data. If the amendment is not accepted because the Ministry or Government considers the proposed solution to be more meaningful, I think it is a rather thin explanation compared to the complexity of the entire area in this debate. I'd take advantage of the opportunity to draw attention on one side, for example. The issue of a judicial unit in Temerin. We have submitted this amendment and explained the need for this judicial unit to survive because the international relations in Temera are extremely sensitive. I can accept that you refused the amendment, but if you refused the amendment, then you should have rejected the amendment in a way that you put our arguments with some of your arguments out of force, not that you called for expenses. Because if the irrational functioning of the Temerino judicial unit is due to costs, I think that at least the costs for this country are international incidents, that is, the consequences when these international incidents happen. This is an example of Temerina and an example of why we are not satisfied with the way our amendments have been rejected. Col. Fremond spoke in detail about Backo Topoli, our proposal to re-establish the basic court in Backo Topoli. In the debate, in principle, I talked about some data and compared Backo Topola to Mali Ijisha, along with for example. With Dimitrovgrad, Raška, Ubo, Lebanese, where there will be basic courts. If a man looks at the criteria, looks at the distance of the second basic court, the number of inhabitants, etc., then in all these cases there are fewer arguments for the existence of the basic court, or as much as, let's say, compared to Backo Topol. In the end, I would conclude that, but I will probably, in further discussion and continue, what I have said in principle in the debate, our key objections refer to the upper Nemesis, to the municipalities of Adu, Kanjiž, Saint, Choku and the New Prince. Here we have proposed several alternatives, our amendments, and I think that the most minimal alternative in which we propose that there be a further existence of a judicial unit in Kanjija. I spoke about it in detail on the Justice Committee. Your secretary of state then promised to take another look at it and analyze the indicators. There, colleagues voted on this amendment and seven MPs were abstentioned. Practically, no one was against the further functioning of the Kanjija court unit, and with the appeal that if you are not ready to reconsider your position in relation to others, at least do so in relation to the Kanjija court unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27436	Thank you. I must say, honourable MPs, we'll take a break from 1600 to 1700 hours. I'm asking MP Janko Veselinovic, he's got three minutes left, does he want to take a word? If he wants to, I'll give it to you. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27437	Thank you, Chairman. Since our amendments coincide with the amendments submitted by the SVM, which relate to certain courts in which the Hungarian national minority has significant representation in these municipalities, I would like to express our position, the position of the DS, that the execution of courts in the places where national minorities live has a special weight and that it is, of course, not only a question of survival and life in that area, but also the application of the entire Corps of Minority Rights, which certainly means the use of languages and letters and not anywhere. Therefore, it is not disputed that they will be allowed to use language and letters and those who, for example, go from Kovacica to Belgrade or those whose judicial unit has been abolished in a place where the Hungarian language is spoken primarily, but that it means shutting down some institutions that mean life for those municipalities, and you spoke of it before you came to that position, that abolishing the courts means abolishing, in a way, living in those municipalities. That is why we too support the amendments that have just been explained, and I think you should have more hearing when it comes to places where most of the inhabitants are made up of members of national minorities. Finally, since some have warned us that we are not only talking about the courts in Vojvodina, but also about the courts outside Vojvodina, these amendments were simply about the courts in Vojvodina, so we were mostly talking about them and we were talking about them, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about, and we were talking about them, and we were talking about, and we were talking about, and we were talking about, and we were talking about, and we were talking about, and we were talking about, and we were talking about, and we were talking about, we were talking about, like, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, you know, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, In the last year, almost every two weeks, they've been tipped off by bombs, empty courts, holding off hearings in two, three months. Is it possible there's no funds, is there a problem with public procurement or something? I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, if it's possible after the break to get an answer to that. I don't know if you know about that fact. It is the largest court in the Vojvodina area, i.e. the second court in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27438	Thank you. Will you, Mr. Shane? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27439	I'd only like one sentence, ladies and gentlemen. Under the proposed law, people from Kovacica do not need to go to Belgrade. They either have a court unit in Kovac, or they need to travel to Pancheva for certain things. The situation of a colleague who spoke before me must have slipped. I'd like to make it clear to the public. I'd also like to ask the minister to back it up with a clear explanation. Citizens of Kovac do not need to go to Belgrade in that sense. The other thing is why it's good that Panchevo and Kovačica are connected, because you have in the municipality of Panchevo, in that district, members of different national communities. You have, for example, members of Dol's who speak Romanian, you have members near Pančev who speak Slovaks as well as in Kovacica and Padina, and then it is very rational to organize that part of the territory in this way that Kovacica gets a judicial unit, as it is proposed in the amendment, when it comes to violations, that we really provide some rationality in that territory. What I can agree with you, that is, and what we all have to work on together, is to develop the capacity of courts and in general administrations when it comes to trials in the languages of national minorities. We had a situation in Panchev that in the past government there was not one investigation that could be conducted because a court interpreter could not be provided. In that sense, it is a special question and I agree there are certain things to be done. I would ask the minister here to give us an answer, as far as I understand Kovačica is related to Pancheva and there is no need to go to Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27440	I wouldn't want to take away anyone's word, not especially the MP from Panchev, but the time is up. We'll continue this conversation at 1700 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Is there anyone else who would like a word for the amendment to article 3 submitted by MP Arpad Fremond? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Andric. The government and the board didn't accept it. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The words have been sent by the People's MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, in an explanation that rejects my amendment to Article 3 above, it is said that the proposed solution enables the economy and lower costs of the judiciary. Now I ask the question – how is it possible that there is rationality or that it will be saved at all, or that it will be more economical, if all the participants of the court case have so far traveled 45 to 60 kilometers to Vranj, and now they should travel from 30 to 45 kilometers to Bujanovac? Where's the economics in there now? The second criterion says – due to the equality of citizens. Where you see the equality of citizens if the municipality with at least 35,000 citizens can't get an unfounded court that he was 50 years old, but he can't have a unit, and the unit, the 23 that I counted on, only the Smederjevska Palanka was bigger, everyone else with even four times with a smaller population... Ten basic courts are actually in municipalities with fewer populations than Presevo. On a trip if you take it. Take an example of Pirot and Dimitrovgrad 22 kilometers. Presevo-Bujanovac is 30 kilometers away. Take Raska and Novi Pazar. How far away are they? Less than Bujanovac and Preshevo. There aren't any criteria here and there's no equality, and if we're considering that this continues with what's already been degraded from the municipal court to the unit, which we had three years ago, actually five years ago, but it's been going on for three years, what did we actually get here? That the number of Albanian judges has decreased, the Albanian nation's judge drastically. Now we only have one from Preshevo. About 30 years ago, we had five judges in Presevo four Albanian judges. Now we're down to only one, because in these three years, the primary court in Vranj has not received any trainee Albanians, and where does this lead? Where's the equality here? The constitution envisioned, the law predicted that, in addition to Serbian court proceedings, minority language should also be conducted, in this case Albanian. How can he do it under these conditions? I already mentioned that there is no translator there when it comes to this unit, the court department in Bujanovac. You also have a situation where there is no translator for these other institutions in Vranj. Absolutely neither are received, it is impossible for professionals who know at least Albanian, not to say Albanians, to be hired and then there is no representation. We're a long way from being proportionally represented than being at least at the level we had 30 or 40 years ago. Why are we moving away now and we're getting pretty far? I'm asking a question. Talks have begun with the Prime Minister. That's what they're doing. It loses the sense of further conversations if the windows are closed at the start like this. You're losing your sense of purpose. Even under such conditions, I do not see what I am still looking for in this Assembly if this is how the degradation of the citizens of the area continues and if discrimination continues. I don't see the point of talking without any effect in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27443	Thank you, too. He has the word Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27444	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have an obligation to the general public in the Republic of Serbia, especially the part that monitors the television broadcasts of the assembly session to say that it is today, and at the invitation of the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje, that the State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice and State Administration is on the ground, that he met with the presidents of the municipalities, with representatives of the relevant forces in the area, particularly Bujanovac and Presevo, and that this dialogue still exists. It is a good thing that there is also any proposal that has been made through this bill that is very well reasoned and well-founded and has its own cause, it has both criteria and maximum possible within the limits of the possibility of state equality. How'd it go in the past? If we could talk about it, we could spend both days and hours and weeks and it would be a little bit of a description of how something worked. Unfortunately for us, some of the things that were in that period don't work anymore, and we need to see how these things improve. I was already saying that the kilometre distance between Bujanovac and Vranja is such that if we had managed for the sole reason of rationality and no more Bujaovac would have court. Even in this bill, it is not proposed for no reason that there is one basic court for the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, because it can then be a court that will function in a respectable capacity. One without another would not achieve its purpose. It was mentioned earlier – even if there were judicial units in Presevo. The one who says so did not submit an amendment that would propose a possible judicial unit in Presevo, but a special court. Not only does there not have a basis for establishing a basic court in the Presevo area, but it also has a basis for us as a state, the state of Serbia, along with the Albanian community living in this area of southeastern Serbia, to have a long way to train human capacities, that one day if conditions are met that there is a court, that one satisfactory representation of members and the Albanian national community is established. I have already said in principle that I am pleased with the fact that among the members of the Judicial Academy we have those who come from the order of the Albanian national community and that is good. It's a good indication that some things change. If the law in this form is adopted by the National Assembly and established as of January 1st, the Court of First Instance in Bujanovac, which will cover the area of two municipalities, Bujanovac and Presevo, and you know that it has been stopped, not only in Vranj, but in the whole of Serbia, the possibility will also open that those who meet the requirements prescribed by law will compete and be admitted to that status. I don't know why that would be a problem. If there are not all those accompanying professions, whether they are interpreters, translators, let's work on it. Will the formation of one basic court for Bujanovac, the second basic court for Presevo, as stated here, help us to have more interpreters for Albanian language? I don't believe it, because it's not the courts that dictate whether or not the interpreter will be, it's the people who live in some area. In view of the fact that we are also preparing ourselves for amendments to the legal provisions concerning interpreters, as a judicial profession on one hand, given that we have discussed and adopted in line with the amendments of our colleagues from the SVM when we have adopted the Justice Reform Strategy, which concerns the official use of language and letter, given the fact that the ministry is a step forward until the completion of the draft amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act, which has nothing to do with the judiciary, but it has to do with the resolution on which I am headed, I urge that we, as it was today in Bujanovac and Presevo, continue this dialogue and see how we can change things on the ground. When these conditions are met and there are enough court cases for the court to act in that area, such an amendment or addition of the law will be most easily implemented. I don't think anyone in this room will be against the fact that when certain conditions are met, raises his hand or presses the key and votes to establish either a judicial unit or a court in that area. At this point, these conditions are not met and, unlike many other parts of Serbia, they are no longer met. I think that we should do this together and in this sense I would really praise that, especially in the last period, the coordination body has worked, in the dialogue that has been established, and that dialogue should last, and we should look for life solutions to the life problems of the residents living in that part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27445	The word is Riza Halimi, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27446	Today's conversation, Mr. Minister, would have been involved if it had been at least two, three weeks ago and we had this argument debated on time. Now that you've brought it all before the final act, what is the meaning of today's conversation in Bujanovac over the coordination body? You say: none of the criteria you used are fulfilled. I am now asking the question – if both Presevo and Bujanovac is a border area, and we know the problem, especially this current one, with illegal border crossings, you have in two municipalities, very busy, Presevo with the busiest border crossing. This is the only thing worse in Subotica or Kanjijiji can be more traffic or it's the same traffic. And Corridor 10 is here. I am only here to state that the objects that are being processed, which are happening in Presevo, have been processed in Vranje so far. That's the point. Again, I say that all the participants of the court proceedings go very expensively to Vranj. So far they've gone to Vranj, now they're going to see Bujanovac. It's all costing, and there's no rationality. It's like if someone said it's more rational teaching to do in Vranj, not Presevo, at any school. It doesn't make sense here. On the other hand, where did you come from if you didn't even have a Bujanovac? Presevo and Bujanovac have at least 80,000 inhabitants, and basic courts have been allocated to 10,000 residents. From Dimitrovgrad to Piroth there are 22 kilometers... (President: Thank you, sir.) Time. )......................................................................................................... Raška has 24 kilometers to Novi Pazar. There's rationality there, and when Preshevo and Bujanovac are at stake, there's no rationality. I don't see the logic here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27447	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27448	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, I can understand your response to Mr. Riza Halimi, as a MP and representative of the Albanian community, however, I cannot understand that as an answer to Serbian citizens, especially citizens living in Bujanovac. I assume you focused the answer in that direction after being appointed by counterpart Riza Halimi. However, we cannot forget that just in Bujanovac and the environment there are over 5,000 Roma living below and that we need to talk about the integration of these national communities into all state bodies. I assume you've had an idea about that, too. I would ask only for correctness, because you said we were talking to the public, because Serbian citizens would have a really real relationship and a relationship in the government, the relationship of the majority who would vote, that we should be very clear about this thing, because exactly Bujanovac, exactly Vranje, who was spoken of by counterpart Riza Halimi, are the areas where a large number of Roma live and a number of Roma who have refugee status, and I also think that we should include this later, when we talk about human policy and the regulation of the court, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27449	The word has Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27450	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we would not come to a situation where my words were incorrectly interpreted, I was just saying, I even mentioned other national communities, not only the Albanian national community, but also other national communities living in other parts of Serbia, not only in the Pcinj County, that it is our goal to involve all members. And what is much more important to us is that we also restore trust in the judicial system and the authorities of the Serbian state to members of the national minorities. One thing has just been forgotten, if we're talking about an illegal crossing of the border that can qualify as a violation, there is a Criminal Court in Presevo, an important border crossing, many customs violations. There is, by law, a mistrial in Preshevo. What is happening in that part of Serbia, which is neither praise nor for the example of the state of Serbia, are numerous cases, intercepted cases of human trafficking, which falls under the crimes of organised crime, for which the Special Court in Belgrade is responsible and the Special Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. That's what this is about. What do I think should be our goal, and what should we work on together? Should we interest and motivate young and mature people, members of other national communities to engage in the work of the judiciary? It's up to us to create a condition for that. You said no trainees were received. We'll create a condition for the trainees to be accepted and we can sit down and agree to do that. I think it's very important and that it should be done. But we can't get into a situation, imagine that there are conditions to form a basic court in Presevo, for example, and we need to make a choice or transfer of judges from Vranj and you don't have enough Albanian judges and then you choose down there, or you move Serbian judges. I believe it would cause great disdain by the Presembians themselves. I'm sure you would. Let us create conditions, educate young people, make them interested in working in the judiciary, and when they meet the conditions for a choice in calling a judge or a deputy public prosecutor, that that's when the election actually comes. I'm up for it, too. Not now, you know how to say cobwebs - it's not done, someone's funerals I don't know what. You know, in 2012, I was the first Serbian justice minister to ever go to Albania officially. In Albania, there is a Serb national community that had no right to its own name, name, language, and nothing, all the time in the country's communist fear. I proposed to my Albanian colleagues – we have an Albanian national community in Serbia, both in central and in Kosovo and Metohija, there is a Serbian national community in Albania, so let us address the reciprocal issues that exist. Is it an area of education, whether it's an area of health, whether it's an area of culture, whether it's an area of justice, very gladly. There were no official reactions to that, but there's a good chance we could talk about it. On the side of the Serbian state, there is absolute will and willingness to deal with these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27451	The People's MP, Riza Halimi, called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27452	Mr. Minister, first about this last one. I think MP Čotric was in Albania and on his way back with the Assembly delegation boasted that in a village near the Municipality of Fijeri they visited a school where a Serbian flag with an Albanian flag went up and took quite a number of books to that school. Then I asked the question -- why not just have that reciprocity with one village school, come true here? It takes a year or two of procedures to be done to get one textbook approved. I'm talking about the subject again. You said there was no reception. There was. Last year, six trainees were admitted to the Vranj primary court, and no Albanian. However, for two years this procedure lasted. But in an area where at least 25% are made up of Albanians, no trainee has been admitted. There was no hearing at all that it was necessary for Albanians to be involved in judicial institutions. You said - crossings are a violation. All right, but you have a lot of incidents that qualify as part of the crimes at border crossings, and I said Presevo is probably the busiest and busiest border crossing towards Macedonia, and we have a crossing integrated with Kosovo, as is Bujanovac. Just when you mentioned the offenses, so I was just saying that it takes Bujanovac to have a misdemeanor court, because there really are a lot of these objects of this nature. So, I think absolutely when this proposal was made, there was no willingness to look at this specificity in this area, and I see it as discrimination against the Albanian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27453	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27454	Thank you for that information that was just released. I'm sure more than a year and a half ago might have been a reception. I'll check it out, and I'll confirm whether it was or not. Anyway, ever since I've been on this function that I've been doing for 16 months in a row, I know that reception hasn't happened. On the other hand, thank you, indeed, for this is an extraordinary introduction to what we propose to amend and supplement the Law on Court Order. How else to regulate, or define the possibility of reception if there is a need for the reception of a trainee or associate who is a member of a minority nation or minority community, if your basic criterion is exclusively an average assessment of the study? So, what we have predicted by amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulation of Courts and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is now in favour of making this possible, what we are both talking about. I think that's good. The fact that a year and a half or two years ago didn't happen, that's a good example of the bad consequences of the bad mistake that was made and let's just make sure it doesn't happen again. But when it's trying to defend itself, it's a little bit awkward to defend one thing and the other with another criterion. It is likely that some balance has been reached just by continuing to exist in Presevo, while in Bujanovac a basic court is being established, in Bujanovac where there is a division of the criminal court. To be clear, where there's no difference between the seat of a criminal court and the department where they're going to be tried. There's no difference in matter. That's exactly what seems to be happening now with the judicial unit, because it will be able to prosecute both criminal and litigation cases. I think with this solution we've proposed, it's setting up a good balance. Is that a solution that will make everyone happy, happy? No, I don't. This law is the result of a kind of compromise where we as a society and a state in many of its segments no longer have a choice, because we need a system that works as well as we can support it. I think this proposal of the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors now provides that possibility, and it is up to us to work on involving all national communities throughout Serbia as much as possible in public political life in all its segments, in public life from education, health and culture, to participation in the work of state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27455	Mr. Riza, I think we've made the problem clear, so there's no point in reporting anymore. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, if Mr. Riza had proposed a senior court, I would have voted for it. So, if he suggested that the high court be, let's say, based in Veliko Trnovec, I would be very happy to accept that, given the number of crimes and the type of crimes committed in the border post. It is a public secret that drug trafficking is particularly expressed in the part of Serbia. So I'm saying, if he suggested that we have a senior court, or that we have a senior court for organised crime, or a senior court, or a half-judge for organised crime in Veliko Trnovec, I'd be happy to accept that because it's about trafficking in human beings, because it's about drug trafficking, because it's about arms trafficking. It's no secret that several trucks of rifles were found at the time of handover. I want to believe that's all of the weapons that were illegal there and that everything was sold and that nothing was hidden and hidden. However, if it were proposed to be this higher court dealing with crime which I have marked and which is the most dangerous type of crime, not only in Serbia, but being persecuted worldwide, or across Europe, I believe that not only would I support such a type of amendment, but I believe that we would have the support of both the EU and the international community, given that it is in everyone's interest to cut those chains. I'm not saying there's a source in Presevo. I believe the source is in the Middle East, etc., but the roads lead through Presevo and Bujanovac, that is, through that sensitive zone. Also, I want to believe that the flag is growing and that this school is not yellow in Albania. Either way, we need to look up to ourselves and give ever more rights to national minorities than others do, because it's in the interest of the stability of the state. We can't look up to the worst, we can look up to the best. As far as the interpreter is concerned, I don't mind being introduced. Given the type of crime, we need there for both Arabic and Iranian and other other languages, both for Swahili and for Roma and Albanian, but I'm afraid we'll need an interpreter there soon for both Serbian. That's what I'm afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27457	The People's MP, Riza Halimi, called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27458	I was actually looking for a higher court, and since Bujanovac and Trnovac are connected, it's no problem at all to be in Trnovec. I'd agree. But that story about the arms trucks is the same to you, the same nature as the tons of drugs that were in the press two, three weeks ago. These are sensational newspapers that work pass and sell everything and everything, but in parliament we should still be more serious when we present the data. I would use the replica to state that, surely during the current minister, six interns were admitted to the Vranj General Court, and the contest was held before that, one two years earlier. To finish what I wanted to say for a little while, that it is not a problem, Mr. Minister, Albanians are used to being broad-minded and do not have, they did not make any problem when there is currently one Albanian and one Serb in a mistrial court. But when there were three Serbs and one Albanian before, no one was causing a problem. If there's no expert frame, there isn't. But that's no reason for citizens to suffer and travel, to Vranj, it's 60 km away. In fact, all the participants, witnesses, direct actors, police, they were all supposed to travel to Vranj, and now they're going to Bujanovac. And that's worth it. Citizens suffer for it. They deserve more attention from both this government and the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27459	Replica, Marijan Risticevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27460	So I wouldn't be misunderstood, I wasn't talking negatively about guns. I was saying that this weapon was handed over when the crisis in the land's security zone was resolved. At least that's what's been said. It's also no secret that there's a monument built there for some fighters. Now we have two things: either when the crisis is over, weapons are handed over, like I said, or they're not. I want to believe that when the crisis was resolved and the Albanians living downstairs handed over all their weapons, as they said. Either that army had a weapon so they handed it over, or maybe they were at war with brushes and brooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27461	The word is Riza Halimi, although I don't think this is the topic of today's agenda. Although, given the sensitivity of the question, I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27462	A colleague has entered the past 13 years and reminded me well. I am counting on these armed conflicts from that time to come to an end, but I would remind you that the programme of the two governments, both federal and republican, which was in February 2001 -- has not been achieved so far. There's a big problem that we've been potentiating all along. When the co-ordination body was to be reconstructed in 2009, and it was not done, and now, this year, when we started talking to the government again, to solve the most serious life problems in the area, and one of those seven areas is the judiciary, for which we insist all the time that we have a more serious approach than before, and finally to start making commitments that have been made even more serious in 2001 and to start living there too. Because that's what these citizens deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27463	Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and together by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Zvonimir Stepic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27464	Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, MPs of the DS, or Mr Stefanovic, submitted an amendment concerning the fact that according to the current government proposal, the Supreme Court in the Great Plan is for the territory of the Municipality of Velika Plana and Smederjevska Palanka. Mr Stefanovic's proposal is that the basic court be Smederjevska Palanka. Of course, this proves that we care about all of Serbia, not how some of them were moving us before. We believe that Smederevska Palanka, both because of the size of the municipality and because of tradition, when it comes to the existence of the court, deserves to have a basic court and I believe that the Government should have accepted this amendment. However, given the fact that the government, or the minister, did not accept any of the amendments most of the opposition parties submitted, this fact does not surprise us either. But we call on the minister to accept some of the amendments as long as this debate takes place in particular. I hope he got enough arguments from the amendment promoter for such a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27465	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27466	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a good thing I'm going to repeat one sentence I've given several times before. Therefore, there is a basic court in the Great Plan with a judicial unit in Smederjevska Palanca. Given the fact that both units will be treated in both criminal and litigation matters, given the kilometre distance of these two places, given the fact that both places have an almost identical number of inhabitants, that they have an almost identical inflow of cases and that they have a well-accompanied judicial infrastructure, one of the reasons why the working group decided on the establishment of this court, that there is no confusion, we wanted to put a basic court in the Smederjevska Palank, one in the Great Plan, but simply none of these two municipalities in particular have the arguments that both of them will be courts. So, one basic court. Yes, they will share all the accompanying services, with judges who will sit in the Great Plan, judges who will sit in Smederjevska Palanca. Citizens will absolutely not feel the difference in the fact that in Smederjevska Palanca, the basic court in the Great Plana will stand on the board. The difference will be that the President of the Court will be sitting there. The building in the Great Plana, I know in particular, is a building that is better equipped for, in a better condition than it is for the Smederjevska Palanca building. Of course, that doesn't mean that this one will stay in bad shape. In line with the possibilities provided by the budget, we will take equal care of the entire judicial network, and in this case, as I said, a citizen from Smederjevska Palanka will not feel any difference as to why it is called the Grand Plane Court, because in his judicial unit will also be handled in criminal and litigation matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27467	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27468	I thank you, and I don't want to repeat myself, but a colleague from the DS has been talking about this same amendment, and you've given an explanation, but I just come from that district and I have an obligation to pass on what the Smederjev Palanca residents think is necessary. You certainly know that there are more than 200 years in the Smederjevska Palanca court and that Smederjevska Palanka has 55,000 inhabitants, that no legitimate reason was ever such to question the quality of the work of the court and judges in that court. With the 2009 reform, the basic court in Smederjevska Palanca was abolished and that these four years the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka expected the basic court to return, and indeed there is no valid reason not to. You stated that Smederevska Palanka and the Great Plan although territorially close to the court buildings are almost at the same level of equipment, so to speak, we heard in your discussion in principle, that the building in the Great Plana is better equipped, that we do not appreciate it, I was almost in court in Smederjevska Palanca and meets all functional and technical conditions in terms of equipment. Given that this law is being passed to make the judiciary more efficient and accessible, I believe that it may still need to consider whether the Smederjevska Palanca should have a basic court and whether this judicial unit meets the same number, the inflow of cases is in considerable numbers in the year two won the scope of the Smederjevska Palanca, so I do not know whether the judicial unit will meet these needs, and whether it is really necessary for the citizens of the Smederjev Palanca to go to the Great Plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27469	The word of Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27470	Thank you, once again, for the opportunity to repeat what I just said. Except for the judicial administration that will sit in the Great Plan in this case, between the Great Plan and the Smederjevska Palanka, will really be no difference. I am using this opportunity to point out that almost there are unfortunately no cities in Serbia that have such an equipped building as the building from now on is a judicial unit, and hopefully soon a court in the Great Plana. Believe it can be compared to internal equipment, facilities, a state in which it can be compared with some museum spaces in Serbia. It was a shame that the state of Serbia had not used such a thing in the past four years. I suggest, who's interested, I'm going to take a tour of these now judicial units, hopefully recently for some of these places and the headquarters of the basic courts, and let's see for ourselves. I'll point out once again, you have one situation that's easier to go from Smederjevska Palanka to the Great Plan than to get from Kaluderica to the Palace of Justice, incomparably easier, and if I didn't just speak from Grocka, the distance measured by almost someone would say 10, someone would say less than 10 kilometers. Let's be rational, let's say -- this is good, there's a chance it works out well, and I think this solution is good. There's an idea that in the Great Plan, there's a criminal court department with a public prosecutor's office, a civil department even in the Smederjevska Palanca, and that's one of the ideas, but if we have a judicial unit that can be treated equally in all matter, I believe it won't create any major problems, especially in cases like this, Vrbasa, Tower, Smederjevska Palanka, Great Plane, Vienna, New Vienna. I think it's a good model that needs to be helped to work well without citizens feeling any consequences, but that they're feeling good effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27471	Mr. Veselinović, on what grounds? Well, you're entitled to the amendment, since no one else has responded to this amendment, then you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27472	Yes, I know, Mr. Chairman, that I have to give a special explanation to answer the word, but that's no problem either. Mr. Minister, you have repeatedly used it as an argument that a city or municipality has a basic court, a fact in which the building is located, so now in your last address, you have said that the building in the Great Plana looks like a museum. On this occasion I would like to ask you a question – do you want the items in these courts to become museum exhibits or to be treated? In this set of laws, or amendments to existing laws, we do not see how these cases will be resolved without becoming court exhibits, or we will turn the entire court in Veli Plana into a large museum with exhibits of the case from the previous century, and I believe that there are cases from the previous century, as well as in courts throughout Serbia, but unfortunately, these cases are not resolved faster because you have returned for these or those reasons, decisions of the Constitutional Court and 600 judges to their previous jobs. What are you going to do to make things not become and remain museum exhibits, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27473	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27474	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really do listen to the debate with full pleasure once in a while. Just before the break, it was said that I did not mention the state of the buildings, but that it was done by someone from the SNS parliamentary group, and now suddenly denying myself, so I was said to have said it several times. No, this is the first time I've spoken and spoken in an exact reasoned case, in which there is an almost identical situation in two municipalities. If you have an identical situation in Smederev, Smederjevska Palanca and the Great Plan, when it comes to judicial infrastructure, and you have a much more representative facility in the Greater Plan, was that a criterion? No, I don't. The criterion was basic – the number of items. If you have a more representative building, and we will all agree that the judicial building should be both a state and a court, which unfortunately is not the case in Serbia, in a large number of municipalities and cities, then it is both normal and better and rational, where this situation is better, predicting that there is a seat of the court. If anyone has anything against it, let them say, for as it was, cosmetic changes. I don't know if the introduction of that claim in breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, whether it's a cosmetic change or whether it's one of the ways that courts will do more instance, carry out professional, professional pressure legally, judges to judges, to judge a matter within a reasonable period of time, and thus to avoid jeopardising the availability of justice to citizens where citizens will receive a judgment within a reasonable period of time in a dispute in which they are, one of the parties. It's possible that it's for some cosmetics, it's possible that someone's reading the laws on the surface, so they don't read from the beginning to the end of some things that we think aren't bad, which is more than that, that they're really a good chance of getting the situation in the judiciary sorted out. For those who want to speak openly, honestly and to speak in the language of the profession, so look at the statistics from 2010 to today, they will see that even before the return of judges unselected by the decisions of the Constitutional Court and after their return, that the statistics of resolution, or judgment, are not improved in any way compared to the period before 2010, which I think is bad. I think it shows that the system doesn't produce those results, which were drawn in 2009. If you compare the number of sentencing cases in 2011 to 2012, or look at the 10-month 2012 and 2013 reports, you will see that 1.13% of the cases have been decided more. I think it's extremely bad. If you look at the comparison of 2011 with 2012, don't hold me by the word whether 2011 with 2012 or 2010 with 2011 the decided number is smaller than this, the higher the number of unjudged cases. There are different reasons why it is. One is the lack of a satisfactory level of procedural discipline, and this is procedural discipline once and on the part of the judges themselves, which was once again a problem in the functioning of the judges, because the courts do not have their own presidents, and the president is responsible for organising the work of the court itself and proposing the annual work schedule. Far from anyone saying it's a great situation. I am convinced that certain amendments and additions to these laws that are before you can lead to better results, and that with all my heart and all my actions I stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27475	Replica, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27476	Minister, it is not simply true that you did not mention the state of the buildings as one of the advantages that determines whether the place will have a court or not, not today, but in principle debate. No, you also mentioned Soko Banja, and you mentioned the vessels in which the roofs leak, I don't remember the place at the moment, but you'll help me out and you'll tell me what place it was when you came to the court, you saw that it was sneezing the building, etc. So you mentioned it. But I don't want to hang on to it, that's exactly what you're talking about, the fact that the courts aren't effective. So for a year and a half we have a new government for a year and a half you're a minister, a year and a half the situation in the judiciary hasn't changed no matter what we have the new six hundred judges returned and it would be expected that the number of solved cases is larger. The number of cases solved as you say yourself is not larger, it's almost the same, we have the items that are outdated. I am not accusing you personally of the fact that the aged subject is "Yugocan", that an outdated subject was the other day, the third one concerning "NIS gas", etc., but in any case the system does not work and does not give us hope of this change and supplementing the law that it will be better. Something in the system has to change. Something in the system has to change, but it seems to me that these years and a half days have not been used in this way to prepare measures to make a better one, to make improvements in the Serbian judiciary. It's just that we have this impression, and I don't think these laws are going to contribute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27477	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27478	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I don't know something, I usually ask or ask questions, and so on and when it comes to the results of someone's work. Once again, we cannot say that the situation in our judiciary is great, unfortunately, far from it, but who was interested and who was good at reading the press, followed the means of public information, he can say that for the first time in more than 20 years, the Supreme Court of Cassation carried out a delegation of jurisdiction, that many second-degree litigation cases waiting for a verdict of 15.16.17 to 20 years began to resolve precisely that delegation of jurisdiction from the High Court of Belgrade, by deploying a number of cases in other more courts in the Republic of Serbia that were less burdensome. From the information I received from the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, if I am not mistaken, some 3,000 such cases have already been resolved, and they have waited almost two decades for the verdict. As far as I know from the talks with the acting President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, such a delegation is also foreseen for the Supreme Court in Novi Sad, which is also overloaded by this type of case. It is planned that in this way, in the next few months, the cases that, I say, have been waiting for some or more decades for the verdict to be resolved, in conclusion, at the end of the spring of next year. I think it's a major shift, a good organisation of work, a good handling of a single court of republican level, shows that and how well it can be done. I am convinced that such a recipe will be applied in the future. Last time in the debate, I read in principle the results of the work of the Court of Appeal in Nis, comparing the nine-month reports for 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. Some 4,000 cases were resolved in 2010, in the first nine months 11.107 cases were solved. We can also read about some of the materials where it was solved in 2010, and today it's about 560. The Board of Appeal in Nis received its president, the president well organised the work of judges and achieved truly envious results and I am proud of what was done. Is that an example of a state of emergency? Again, I repeat the situation is not extraordinary, but the one who is interested and how he can get acquainted with the fact that in the courts themselves, some positive change is happening, that I'm not talking about problems, let's just say, that were found in the Basic and the Supreme Court in Panchev, catastrophic examples. You have an example of a judge who never came to work before 11:00 in the afternoon in Pancheva. Previously on The President of the Court, he had absolutely no idea that he was going to change anything. So, a judge who doesn't schedule any hearings before 11:00. You have terrible examples, some things, like I said, have started to change. Can we say that some of it should be done faster, done better? You know, when I took office, every performer of the President of the Court of Appeal complained of an unfulfilled number of judges according to the judge's decision on the number of judges. Recently, the Court of Appeals also received this missing number of judges. I am convinced that like the case of the Court of Appeal in Nis, which has shown that even with eight judges less can triple the results of its work, that now with a full number of judges these work results will be even better. I want to believe that because I've seen that someone with less resources, with less professional and human resources, can do one hard job, I have reason to believe in the future that they will do it even better, and time as we see it shows itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27479	Replica, Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27480	You see, I agree with the possibility that the debate on a certain amendment will go a little wider and explain the situation. I find it inappropriate for a representative of the executive authority, who is also a member of the VSS, to draw up an individual case and give an image, for example, to a whole court. So if there's an individual case of a bad judge, a judge who doesn't understand his obligations, I don't think there's any more invited institutions in the country than the VSS to raise that issue, just a matter of resolution. Otherwise, to give a picture of the otherwise good court and the High Court and the General Court in Panchev where there are a lot of good judges, there is no need to generalize any thing, and right here I have to say right in the defense of people who are doing their job safely, we can talk about the number of who is who isn't, but we don't need to give a picture to the entire institution. Furthermore, you mentioned that the Supreme Court in Belgrade could not do its job in certain cases and that there was a delegation of jurisdiction, and at the same time we now have the situation that the Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government Committee is proposing, and I expect to see the government's statement on amendments, that only the Supreme Court in Belgrade is doing certain things, means in the matter of deciding on a ban on breaking up the press or disputes on copyright and related rights, regardless of, for example, being accepted by the government, a good amendment by my colleague Konstantinovic, that the Supreme Court judges in disputes on copyright and related rights unless the second court is competent. (President: Time. So, on the one hand, you get into this story...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27481	I'll take it from the time of the authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27482	So, on the one hand, you say that the Supreme Court cannot carry out its tasks and on the other hand, on the other hand, we are loading another obligation and we are not allowing other senior courts to judge in such cases, regardless of what the Government has said and accepted Mr Konstantinovic's amendment. Next thing. These legal proposals are connected, the very network of courts and the arrangement of courts. But, you see, you are proposing that cases in which no decision has been taken by the courts and public prosecutors established by law be taken over by the competent courts and the public prosecutor's office as established by this law and the Law on the regulation of courts. Translated in Serbian – everything the Supreme Court is now judging in Panchev, for example, guilt determined, and where it is from the Kovin area, all these cases will be terminated and dismissed to the Higher Court in Smederev. Does that make sense or doesn't make sense? If something has arrived with the evidence provided and at a certain stage of the proceedings, is there any excuse to interrupt such a thing and judge practically from the beginning, because if the second court takes over from the beginning, we know what the obligations are. So in that sense, you take this discussion as well-intentioned and try to point out certain things that are still possible to fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27483	Replica, Dragan Shormaz. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: I've applied for the amendment. ) I apologize, Minister Selakovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27484	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly see the discussion as well-intentioned from the very beginning and I understand it as an opportunity to clarify some of the things that I think are different from what was the intensities of the legislator. We can talk about everything in general, I haven't named anyone, I spoke on the basis of the information delivered to me by the court presidents and far from making the whole court look bad. I simply cited an extreme example that I don't believe anyone in his private company would tolerate, and imagine only in the state service that you have someone who does a respectable job, a very important job like a judge's job, which is in terms of our economic opportunities, we can say well paid, without coming to work on time and not doing its work duties as prescribed by law. I conveyed the knowledge that was presented to me by the managers of a judicial authority. I think it's important to say one thing even though it's not the subject of this amendment, but it's being initiated, so it needs to be answered. So, if the Supreme Court in Belgrade was overloaded, why now assign him exclusive jurisdiction for one matter in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia? There's a few reasons. The first reason, when I said it was overloaded and a delegation of jurisdiction was carried out, was a delegation of cases decided by appeal. So, the second degree of litigation. Secondly, the concentration of jurisdiction when we speak, we are talking about the first degree of copyright and related rights violations, intellectual property rights. The third reason, i.e. the third thing and the reason additional, why it is intended to reach the concentration of jurisdiction, is both explicit and exclusive EU demand, because it is a tendency not only in Serbia's judiciary, which is now being put into effect. Many of them, some of them better organised justice, in terms of, say, international private law, which is a specific matter, where you can't say that a large number of judges know how to act in this matter, in terms of copyright and related rights, the right to freedom of the press, or to support, etc. media disputes, concentrates on jurisdiction to overcome a major problem. Because of the specificity of matter, this is the problem of unequal court practice. You today have problems with media law cases, where in the same things a diametrically different verdict is made in the High Court in Belgrade and the High Court in Novi Sad. We can't say for either of those two courts that it's a court of less quality, one than the other. I think these are two perhaps the strongest court of personnel, professionally throughout Serbia. But there is a problem of different judgments in the same legal situation, in one matter where some kind of judicial specialization is needed. Specialization in the sense of establishing a special court for that matter. There are different opinions, someone says it's good, someone says it's less good, but what we have a chance to do, we have a chance to concentrate that jurisdiction in one place. If that's centralization, we can have a discussion. It is my opinion that on some mid-term, when we show that the concentration of jurisdiction is possible, when we train a good fit to deal with such issues and deal with them in this matter, that two places should, or if possible, at least four places, in the seats of appeals, in higher courts in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac, we have departments that will deal exclusively with this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27485	According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am advocating article 104th century 1, 2nd and 3rd. In paragraph 3, you shall have the discretionary right to decide in the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 who you will give the replica. Paragraph 1 states: if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name, last name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive is expressed, point 2. – relations to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to replicate. You gave Panchev's previous speaker the right to reply just because the court in Panchev was mentioned. There is no mention of an MP or an MP group. So here the minister spoke of the customs of a judge coming at 11.00 a.m. to work at the court in Panchev. Since he was not a previous speaker and the minister did not respond to him, a colleague reported, advertised the right to a replica, you gave him the right, and I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure. But since it is in favour of the opposition, given that I am giving you the right to be lenient and tolerant, especially to the opposition that is very sensitive, which we had the right to do the other night and to see, I will not ask you to vote on it, but I ask you to keep an eye on it in the future, even if the replica refers to an MP who had previously performed, because this was a free topic, a free shooter, I don't know on what basis you gave the right to a replica at all. But I don't blame you, since I used to be an opposition, so when you let that happen, let it be to honor the opposition. I'm not asking to vote on it, but you'll make sure it doesn't go to some extreme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27487	I don't know what to tell you. That exposure took place during the presidential change. In the consultations of the previous chairman and I, we exchanged information that seemed to us to be the basis. However, you're right that we should always make sure there is a basis or no basis. Thank you for understanding this individual case. By amendment, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27488	Let's go back to the amendment regarding the Smederjev Palanka and the Great Plane. To support everything the minister said, I want to try to demystify this story in some way. It's the Danube County, I know every juice I know, if not every field road and I know what it's all about and here it's talking about. Namely, the amendment was filed by parties in power in a locale in Smederjevska Palanca. In particular, the president of the DS municipality. Here you can see, on this case, that it's only politics and he made it that way. You have the village of Saraorci. It's the last village towards the Great Plan that has 3,000 voters. So it's not a small village in the Smederevo municipality. It is twice as far for them to come to Smederev for justice and to come to Smederev's primary court to do whatever they need as citizens, rather than to the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka to the Great Plana. It's twice as far away from them, not to say that it's closer to them than to the Great Plan, but to the Smederov. There are several cases like this. What's being said here was entirely a matter of politics and nothing else, because the president of the DS municipality asked his MPs to do so. In the Great Plan, the president of the DSS municipality is one of the few but is the president of the DSS municipality, the legacy of the old force. It shows here that there is no interest in the SNS or the minister to accuse himself of politics, but all that the minister said was indeed an advantage to be the headquarters of the basic court there, but in Smederjevska Palanca. This is how we come in the last thing that Honorable colleague Vesenovic said. The system's not working. Well, yes, it doesn't work because this is a system that was established in the previous reform that was political and which has been done in this way like these amendments, and these amendments of the law are now being reset and made on sound grounds for what citizens need, and that is, I repeat, not political courts, not courts that will be at the will of some presidents of municipalities, mayors or parties, but independent of the executive government, and of course from local authorities, but more effectively. That's what citizens are interested in. They don't care where they go to court, I say responsibly, but they want to know how quickly that court will do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27489	Replica, Mr. Veselinović. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27490	Thank you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, these are baseless accusations that DS MPs have submitted amendments to municipalities in which DS personnel are in power. That, above all, is not true, because we have submitted amendments and for municipalities in which the representatives of the SNS or other options are in power, so that is not true at all. Now I just have my suspicions, what I said earlier this afternoon when we were talking about a network of courts, that is, before the break, when we said that some of the solutions seemed to be caused by the fact that they were in power in that municipality. But we're not the ones who could decide. It was decided primarily by the minister when he proposed this network of courts, that is, this law. We can influence through the amendments and through our proposals it is seen that we did not go along the political line, but above all according to the fact whether we believe that a place, or a municipality, should have a court or not. Today, symbolically, it was the Baki Petrovac we talked about the most and if we weren't in Backo Petrovac in power, we would feel that this place should have a court, because of everything we talked about, as well as the Smederjevska Palanka. Finally, the minister himself agreed that it was a dilemma that was difficult to resolve, should the court be in Smederjevska Palanca, or the Great Plana? I hope she didn't decide that she was in the DSS, I didn't even know, really, not DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27491	Mr. Shormaz, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27492	Just for a little while. I think you understand doves in Knin, as well as here what I say when I speak. That's what I said. That's what I said. That's what I said. That's what the minister said. That's what it was for. It is true that it was a difficult dilemma because it is almost identical to two municipalities both by size and by population, by all means. They're almost identical municipalities. Of course it was hard. It is seen here that the decision was in the interest of the Serbian judiciary and the courts in the area, and your proposal is only because the president of the municipality and the Smederjevska Palanka sent it to you. I know a man, and I know that must be true. Of course you can say that it is not true and that you have not advocated what your president of the municipality stands for. I don't argue with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27493	MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27494	Dear President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, of course I will not support this amendment for any number of reasons. Let me say that the network of courts in the former regime was very bad. You know very well, and we people's MPs, that the judiciary in general has been assessed as the worst in Europe, as well as the network of courts. It is therefore good that the Supreme Cassation Court analysed in detail the work of all courts in 2012. What did that analysis show? It would be good for those who criticise the year and some work of this government today to look at what this analysis shows and what it was that was wrong for this network to correct. First, it showed that there are still certain problems in the basic courts. First of all, the burden of judges with a large number of cases, that the network of courts was irrational, inefficient, uneconomic and as such did not correspond to the interests of citizens. Therefore, this current network in my opinion is a more efficient network of courts, more economically, more suited to the interests of citizens, and all with one goal, which is a fair trial, respect for the right of trial within a reasonable period of time and because it was a large number of judicial units that were in some way irrational. It's not true that this network hasn't solved any problems. I must point out that the EU, or the European Commission, has given a very poor assessment to the former network and also to the judiciary and that the latest is now more positive. In the end, it was said to go in the first direction. Mr. Selakovic, as much as you are committed to the work of the judiciary, says that more than all ministers have stayed in this assembly. My stats say you've been 27 times with today. It is not true that something did not happen, some judges had died of injustice before, I must say, 14 according to the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Judges of Serbia. Furthermore, I must point out that the former regime had no courts in border posts. If you compare the network of courts with your ex now, you'll see that it's fixed. Is that 100% fixed? I won't say it is, but it is in the vast majority. Justice was not available to Serbian citizens. Now with those corrections will be more accessible. Furthermore, the number of basic courts decreased, and that is true, because there were more before. What's very important, what we're talking about here today, the former regime had no courts in towns populated by minority communities. Is that injustice corrected? Of course it is. Is it 100%? I'm not gonna say it is, but it's still fixed. I must also say that the number of judges in the earlier period, and the most experienced ones, are some of the jobs away. Today, this injustice has been corrected, etc. I must say, the former regime has come down, to say the Department of Justice with the Supreme Judiciary of the Justice. Let me say, in the end, that it is strange that during the previous period, during today, most opposition MPs do not distinguish the basic court from the judicial unit. I'm surprised, even if it's the university professors who teach in colleges. In that sense, I got three text messages from students with two law schools, two university places, one agricultural college. I quote: "We are ashamed as students of the right that our teachers do not distinguish between the basic court and the judicial unit," finished the quote. Let me say that I am against these amendments and I think that the Government, or the Ministry of the Right Way, thanks in the first place, Mr. Minister, to your knowledge, your ability and the desire to bring this judiciary to its place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27495	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27496	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in these 250 MPs there are those of us who remember at least one 15, 20, we remember some of the encounter courts back then, but long ago, and I know that these lawyers, who proposed these amendments, learned from the book what it means to be a happy court. Then I remember that in the 1970s, every municipality had a court, for some other reason that the centre of power would be reduced to one municipality and dictated from there. We've come to another time when we've re-imposed some courts in municipalities where it can be dictated. Now is the time for us to even rationalize and deploy these courts and prosecutions where they are necessary and where they are meant to work. I was under the impression that some of the promoters from all opposition parties, and even from the authorities, that the justice ministers in their municipality would place the entire judiciary in their district, the prosecution so that there would be no court on the other sides. That's why I accept that the board and the government have not accepted such amendments, because then there would be sunflowers, like the amendments we're proposing from some services, lawyers. I'd like dialogue to be conducted between lawyers, but on a healthy basis, not emotionally or personally. So let's understand that this bill is one of the best laws so far and accept it as it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27497	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27498	It's obvious Mr. Secretary can't listen to this discussion either.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27499	The minister only came out for a moment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27500	I don't think he understood anything about this amendment, my colleagues at Atlagic. First of all, you didn't understand there was no analysis. There's no analysis of the Supreme Cassation Court. The MPs haven't received any analysis, and we've been talking all day about this law being taken by heart, without any analysis, and we've given you clear examples where the judicial units have been abolished, and there are cases or there are more cases than where the judicial units have been left or the courts have been brought in. I don't know what's more effective and how it's more accessible justice when there are no more judicial units in 40 municipalities. How can there be more justice if you have to go to another municipality, to another city in court? It's neither available nor more efficient. On the contrary, it will be less accessible, because citizens have to travel, they have to go elsewhere. No courts were returned wherever they were, as they were before 2008. No, we had a situation where courts were in the largest cities in Serbia, and judicial units in all municipalities. Now there are no judicial units left in all the municipalities, and the courts exist in those cities or in those municipalities where someone thought by heart that courts should be. So it's done by heart, it's politically done. What's effective in the fact that the Shabatz is going to the appeal in Novi Sad? What did you find here to be more effective and accessible justice, by having the citizens of Whispers appeal to Novi Sad? Since the state of Serbia, Sabac has gravitated Belgrade, not Novi Sad. What is effective and accessible in that when you abolish the 40 municipalities of the judicial unit? Why did you cancel? Why can't they do outsider procedures, why can't they leave, why can't they sue in their place to lead? There's a building everywhere, all provided with infrastructure in all these places. How were they so far, if it wasn't secured? This is where we heard the arguments - it's an illegal building. It's okay to be a judicial unit in an illegal building, and it can't be a court in an illegal building and vice versa. So, please, if we're talking about this topic, let's talk it over. Most of these proposals are political. Surduke had to get the court, and Vladic's Han couldn't get the court. Why? Because someone asked for it politically, and then you're going to take the blame to Vladica's Han, not Surdulica, and you're giving the name of the court in Surdulica. Then here you have debates how wonderful this is, how great this is, how it's never been better. Nothing has really changed, except 40 municipalities don't have a judicial unit. The only change, the only reform of these laws, is that in 40 municipalities in Serbia there are no more judicial units. Everything else is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27501	The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27502	I really don't want to have sex with the previous speaker, but whether the analysis was done or not, it was published in a magazine. I recommend, I hope that we MPs follow the magazines, not to say what number, so let our colleague make an effort, and he will see that the Supreme Court of Cassation carried out an analysis of the work of the courts, even in 2012, but then. Is the network better? I'm sure the previous speaker, I think he's a legal profession, thinks he is. They won't deny that in border areas no more uniform courts have been deployed, unlike the previous one, this analysis has been carried out. He won't deny it and say that, given the state of the national communities in the border towns, it's not ideal. No, but compared to the previous network, it must be better. Did the judges die of injustice? A statement by the president of Serbia's judges. Even a dead judge was elected on the election list. When they saw it, the judges were shocked. I'm not saying it's ideal, but it's much better and there's no dilemma. I'm surprised that there are still some lawyers in this assembly who really don't distinguish between the basic court and the judicial unit and the compensation given to the judicial unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27503	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanović Plassic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27504	I'm advocating a violation of article 27. I urge you, Mr. President, to follow the debate and remind you that the amendment to article 3 is on the agenda of the amendment to the Great Plan and the Smederjev Palace, not the law in principle. You may not have followed well, but the last three, four speakers are always talking about the law in principle. I would ask you to return to the amendment currently on the agenda in order to be effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27505	I need to know that the last two discussions were replicas. So, when I allow someone a replica, I let them say what they want to say. That's what it's gonna be like when I'm president of the National Assembly. Of course, in Voting Day, we can make a statement about your proposal for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27506	Easy, Milivoevich. I have a replica of Mikovic's observation, perhaps I should have even served the Rules of Procedure, when he said that as much as the minister sees in my discussion, he has come out. I'm gonna get out of here right now so I don't listen to what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27507	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27508	According to the amendment, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I will be wasting my time. The chairman, I did not want to report to the Rules of Procedure, but indeed some discussions humiliated the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't mind that the Serbian Progressive Party is represented by top experts, as we just heard from the gentleman who came out of the O.R., but the longest reading they've read in their lives is text messages. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27509	Don't insult the People's Messengers. No one insulted you and what you're doing right now is truly a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure. Because if we, as colleagues, make a statement about each other, what will people think? Of course, then, not to contribute to the dignity of the National Assembly, but to all of us as humans. I really think that we, first of all as MPs, should try to show each other the mask of respect. How do we feel about the law, how do we feel about the government, about ministers is one thing, but to bring each other such difficult qualifications... So I ask you to take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27510	Mr. Chairman, you have not listened to all the speakers from the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. If you had listened, the MP who is not currently in the O.R. was speaking to the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, reading allegedly text messages. A man who doctored in Blac, in which no judicial unit is even scheduled, and teaches in Kosovo Mitrovica, in which no basic court is scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27511	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27512	I'll quote, Mr. President, if you haven't heard from the beginning because of the noise, the first sentence of a distinguished colleague who spoke before me. "I will use the time of the parliamentary group to talk about the amendment." That's all he said about the amendment. Everything else was about the Serbian Progressive Party, analyzing who was where, and what he had doctored or what he had done. If we're going to make such a pattern, and if we're going to use the Assembly's pay phone for such purposes, if we're going to report on the amendment, and we're going to talk and insinuate something, and none of our colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party explicitly mentioned the name of any parliamentary group, and the fact that someone is hurt, offended, that someone is called in the disastrous reform of the judiciary, and not only because the Serbian Progressive Party has estimated it to be catastrophic, but because the international community has estimated that it is disastrous and that you have it in every report... (President: I only ask that we do not engage in replication on the part of the Rules of Procedure. ) For this reason, I ask you to introduce this debate into normal flows and discuss courts, or a network of courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27513	I couldn't agree more. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27514	Article 107(1) and (2) has been injured. No one has the right to insult anyone here, especially the very good intellectuals who have been at all functions for the last 10 years, and we know what the results of that work are. So, Mr. President, you distracted him, but that should have been noted. You can't be insulted in the National Assembly, no one in this building, no matter what. I think the gentleman who made such a statement deserves a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27515	Members of the 3rd Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić and together the MPs of the people Snezana Stojanović Plassic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Živojin Stankovic and Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic. First for the word, the People's MP, Alexander Pejcic, was reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Minister Selakovic and representatives of the government. The amendment I'm going to discuss today has been filed by the opposition MPs. The same amendment was filed by MPs from the ruling structure, which says we have one political consensus. What does our mutually speaking of, so to speak, the amendment? We ask you, sir, to appoint a court unit in Vlasotanc as the primary court in Vlasotanc. There are many reasons, I will state one of the reasons. For example, the current judicial unit in Vlasotinc on 1 January 2013 was involved in some 4,000 pending cases, of which 416 in criminal matter, over 1,000 in litigation, 2,372 in execution cases and other non-partic matter. The expected annual inflow of the case is between 250 and 300, in criminal matter between 800 and 1,000 cases, in a lawsuit of about 2,000 executives and other outsiders. The court unit in Vlasotinc has a total of seven judges, of which four in litigation and execution matter, two in criminal matter and one in non-partisan matter. When it comes to this law, we support your decision that you have established the Fundamental Court in Lebanon, but when we mention the indicators and when it comes to the case, the number of inhabitants, you will see that they are equivalent. We suggest that the Municipality's basic court in Vlasotinc be in charge of the municipality of Black Trevo and Vlasotince. You've got about 39,000 inhabitants around here. The Leban basic court also covers some 40,000 inhabitants. So when you compare judges, in the municipal court in Vlasotinc, and the number of judges in the municipality court in Lebanon, you'll see it's the same. For these reasons, we ask for the establishment of a basic court in Vlasotinc. I think these are solid indicators and arguments I was just talking about. That's probably what my esteemed colleagues are going to talk about. We have a political consensus here, and we have amendedly responded that you accept this amendment and that the basic court in Vlasotanc is established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27517	The word has a national emissary, Ljubica Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27518	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow Members, the honourable representatives of the Government, the PUPS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 3(1). We have suggested adding a new point 13a after point 13a – the basic court in Vlasotanc for the territory of the municipalities of Vlasotinac and Crna Trava. Point 32) is changed and reads – The basic court in Leskovec for the territory of the town of Leskovec. This was explained by the provisions of the bill. For the area of the town of Leskovec and the municipalities of Vlasotince and Crna Trava, the main court in Leskovec with the judicial unit in Vlasotinc is scheduled to be the local court. We believe that such a solution does not reflect the right picture of the situation on the ground, and that the needs of the population of that area, the number of subjects in work, the number of judges, the economic opportunities and the configuration of the terrain and how they justify the establishment of the i.e. Returning the basic court to Vlasotanc. According to the publication of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, municipalities and regions in the 2012 figures in the Municipality of Vlasotince, there were 5,045 employees, in the Municipality of Crna Trava 710, a total of 5,755. On the other hand, the Municipality of Medvedja 1.225 and the Municipality of Bojnik 1,081, which is a total of 2,306 employees, much less and 50% less than the number of employees in the Municipality of Vlasotince alone. Total investments in the Municipality of Vlasotince in 2011 were 77,209.000 dinars. In 2011, Vlasotince had 1,514 nights of tourists. In Vlasotinc, several foreign investors from Germany, Slovenia and Italy operate. Bear and Black Weed industry almost don't have any. The territory covered by the basic court in Vlasotinc extends to 615 m2, where 35,969 inhabitants live. Vlasotince is a town settlement with 15,835 inhabitants according to the 2011 census. From the highway E75 Corridor 10 is about 8 km away. Black grass is 45 km away from Vlasotanc and represents a border zone. It covers part of the state border with Bulgaria for a length of 9 km. In the area there is a border crossing which is about 60 km away from Vlasotinc. From a geographical point of view, it is a mountain-mounted area with a lot of decomposed settlements. Some settlements are located at an altitude of more than 1,600 m, where the cold period begins in half October and ends in early May. The roads that connect these settlements with the seats in the municipalities of Vlasotince and Crna Trava during the winter period are almost impenetrable. At the same time, the judges of the current court unit in Vlasotinc, on 1 January 2013, were involved in some 4,000 pending cases, of which 416 in criminal, over 1,000 in litigation and 2,372 in execution cases and remained in non-parish matter. The expected annual inflow of the case is between 250 and 300 in criminal matter and between 800 and 1,000 cases of litigation, about 2,000 executive cases and other outsider cases. The court unit in Vlasotinc has a total of seven judges, of which four in litigation and execution matter, two in criminal matter and one in an outsider. Such criteria for determining the number of judges in courts of general jurisdiction and special courts provide that the basic court may be educated if at least seven judges operate there, and therefore that condition is met. The court unit has a court building that is adequately decorated, has eight courtrooms and an optimal number of offices, archives and solid material and technical equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27519	The word is Mr. Ninoslav Girić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27520	Thank you. The Honorable President, respected ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, my fellow promoters of this amendment also generally said all the data that absolutely agrees with my data, from the number of judges, through litigation, extraparate and criminal proceedings, so I wouldn't repeat it, except for this second part. I think there's that basic criterion, although your position, Minister, I know very well about this matter. These additional criteria, as far as the road network is concerned, should be said to be practically 73 inhabited places, many of which are in the mountainous and mountainous areas. Some are over 1,000 feet above sea level. The colleague said – since the cold period began in October, and ends there at the end, or early May of the month, which is about 60 km away from the Municipality of Vlasotince, I am talking about Black Grass. In addition, there is a constant number of registered skills of economic and financial professions, construction, agricultural professions in Vlasotinc. Then, there is an adapted and renovated court building with eight courtrooms and an optimal number of offices and archives with solid material and technical equipment. It should be noted that in Vlasotinc, quite developed economic activity. There are three foreign companies: ELRAD from Slovenia, "Gruner" from Germany and "Fjorentino Group" from Italy, which employ about 1,000 workers. In addition, very much alive is economic activity. For these reasons and with this explanation and my colleagues and myself, I would once again ask you, Minister, to consider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27521	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27522	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I hadn't heard a few things that seem rather suspicious to me, I wouldn't have answered the word, and I wouldn't have reacted. In fact, the same information that several respected fellow Members of Parliament read mentions judges who act in criminal and investigative matters. There is not a single judicial unit in the Vlasotinc judicial unit in Serbia that is being handled in criminal matter. That's the first thing. The second thing is, something is listed which, let me know, I know by two sources that it's about populated places at an altitude of more than 1,600 meters above sea level. Maybe something changed in the meantime. If we remember, in Serbia and Montenegro the most populated place, the permanent settlement was Žabljak, and in Serbia it is the village of Jasenovo at 1,194 m above sea level, on the slopes of Zlatibor. So, it's about a constantly populated place. There may be some pitches or katuns, but constantly populated places, at least that's what the geography in Serbia says, above the height of 1,194 m is not. That's why I'm saying that the data that's been presented here seems suspicious to me, but let me get that data from official court statistics by tomorrow and share it with you, because some I've heard here seem to me and how illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27523	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27524	On behalf of counterparts Miodrag Stojkovic and Zivojin Stankovic and DS MPs who also submitted this amendment, I would like to say that the DS supports this amendment. As far as I can see, if it supports the SNS, PUPS, DSS and the URS, we could absolutely vote on this amendment, unless some colleagues change their minds until the moment of the vote. Please, just as the minister respects that all parliamentary groups are proposing one amendment. However, it is the Assembly that should pass the laws, so I ask you to reconsider and that you accept in the course of the debate. If you don't accept it, I urge my colleagues to vote that the Vlasotins still get court, because apparently according to the criteria we've heard they meet the conditions for court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27525	The word is Snezana Stojanović Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27526	Thank you. I am also one of the applicants of these amendments, since these are two amendments, one was submitted by the opposition MPs, and one MP of the position, which is essentially irrelevant. Mr. Minister, what I wanted to say to you is that this is not the amendment of our MPs, this is the amendment of the citizens of Vlasotina. I guess you get that. That's why the argument given by all colleagues is actually based on the same data you claim to be incorrect. My colleagues took that opportunity from me, and so did you, so I'm not going to use that information. What I want to tell you is that this is an amendment practically to the citizens of Vlasotinc, the local government of Vlasotince, the judges, the people who use these services in Vlasotinc, and we are only here to pass on what they asked of us and what it is their request. So you will forgive us for, say, not being a lawyer personally, not being an expert, not having any experience in life with the court, but I think that the citizens of Vlasotinca, since they don't have their own MP in the Serbian Parliament, deserve to be represented in this unanimous way by the MPs of Leskovec. I think that's good. I also think it's a good thing that Lebanesee gets a basic court and I believe that it's one of the ways that, among other things, things that will bring about the availability of justice to the citizens of the region, that it is, in some ways, a satisfaction for them to continue to develop this area, since, as some colleagues have said, it is a highly undeveloped area. As far as the Vlasotince is concerned, the Vlasotince is a very lively environment. Ownership is a city that's always had its own spirit, where something's always happened. It's a city where, I must tell you, unlike other parts of southern Serbia that are empty, young people are happy to return, who love their city, who love that specific spirit of Vlasotina. I think it is one of the reasons why Vlasotince develops a little more intensively than other parts, and because of that, thanks to the special incentives that investors have received, they have also invested in Vlasotince and Vlasotinc, thanks to this now employs 1,000 or 1,500 people in companies that foreign investors have opened in Vlasotinc. I think all of this can be the reason that, with these formal criteria that have been met, you make a decision to change this part of the law and Vlasotince still gets the right to its basic court, regardless of whether the inhabited place is 1,100 or 1,600 meters high. What I can witness to you as someone who lives in this area and often travels to these parts, Black Treva, Vlassin Lake, etc., is that these paths are often covered, that there are very interesting weather opportunities over the winter. I don't know exactly what altitude it is, but the fact is that these paths are often covered and often even people from Black Grass can hardly reach Vlastotinc or Leskovec. Finally, I would also like to emphasise what my colleague Konstantinovic said and I would like to say not only for you to think about it, but also for the citizens of Vlasotinac, which is that all MPs from Leskovec, regardless of which parliamentary group and which foreign parliament, opposition or positional, belong, have submitted the amendment that they asked us to submit. But it's not enough to submit an amendment, and it's not enough to talk about it, the amendment should essentially support the day of the vote. And not only the MPs who have submitted the amendment, but their entire parliamentary groups in support of what they are doing for their end. In that sense, we already have a clear situation that some parliamentary groups will fully support the Vlasotins, the citizens of Vlasotin and their opportunity to get a municipal court. I call on all colleagues who have submitted amendments not only to vote but also to their entire parliamentary groups, and in this case Vlasotince will have a municipal court and will have the pleasure and opportunity to make sure that MPs work unitedly in their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27527	The word is Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27528	Mr. Chairman, I'm not answering our amendment. I will use this time, as I promised, on behalf of our parliamentary group, in a debate in principle, to support everything that makes sense to us. I say, since I am a Kraguje MP, I do not have any particular objections as to the citizens I represent, I think this is a good example of how MPs perform uniquely and I would absolutely support this amendment. The reasons given in favour of the adoption of this amendment, I think they are entirely meaningful. Secondly, we also supported the previous network of courts, precisely because of all previous analyses that indicated that the current state of the network of courts, particularly the burden of judges on cases, in great proportion and in great disbalancing. As a parliamentary group, we are fully aware that there have been a number of restrictions on the justification of the number of courts in a given territory, as well as the number of judicial units. This fact was faced by this government and this ministry, as the previous government has largely had its hands tied to the number of basic courts and judicial units, which is the key, we think, and the basis for the discussion of all MPs. I wanted to ask the minister and his team to reconsider our amendment that has a similar explanation for the remaining judicial unit in Guca. Since there are approximately 6,000 cases in various matter, there have been seven judges in litigation, non-participatory and executive matter, that the existing judicial unit has made it impossible for citizens to access the area largely because the furthest areas were 35 km away, now, with the transfer of the judicial unit to the basic court in Ivanjica, that distance will be 70 km. It is a mountain-mounted area which has particularly difficult traffic connections during the winter period, and I think it will significantly disable the work and those who work directly in the judiciary and all participants in the process. Dragačevo with 21,500 inhabitants and 36 settlements, with historical reasons because the Guca court has existed as a meeting court since 1947, as a municipal court later than 2010, and as a judicial unit since 2010, so that it is something that, with the existing court, has been fully reconstructed in 2003 by state money, building maintenance costs, judicial guards, auxiliary staff and everything else exists, so there are. I think we should reconsider the rest of the Gucci judicial unit. Another one of our proposals is, again, with a very similar argument, and it concerns the abolition of the Babusnica court unit. We see that in this proposal there is a basic court in Piroth and the basic court in Dimitrovgrad. According to us, there seems to be room and valid arguments that Piroth of course has his primary court, but that, eventually, Dimitrovgrad has a judicial unit, and that he remains a judicial unit in Babusnica and is bound by jurisdiction for the Community Court of Justice in Piroth. It's about a pretty big territory, also a mountain-mounted area. It's not a large population, it's just over 12,000 people, but it's 53 rural settlements. Babusnica municipality has 532km of square area, it is a border municipality, it borders the border towards Bulgaria, one fifth is the citizens of Bulgarian nationality, which was also one of the working group criteria. It seems to us that every citizen in those territories who's demographically empty will literally need a full day's work to do some of the most trivial jobs in the Court of Pirot. I also wanted to take this opportunity to thank the Ministry of Justice and the Chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee for having heard a lot about our argument to remain a judicial unit in the Municipality of Varvarin, which would be the judicial unit of the Kruševac municipality, but would also be responsible for the municipality of Varvarin and Cicevic. I wouldn't repeat the argument, I think the Ministry has heard in this section. I believe there is still time for these amendments to a group of ambassadors from the Japanese region, who were supported by the ruling majority of the SNS, to think about them. I fully understand and support them. I'm saying, I think they're absolutely meaningful and justifiable.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27529	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ana Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27530	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I advertise Article 27. Mr. President, I'm really asking you to take care of the order at the session and not allow this session to take place. With all due respect to his colleagues, he reported for an amendment relating to the Vlasotince, and told of all his amendments. I don't think that's right and you should take care of the order at the session because now each of us could talk about our amendments if he's in a hurry home or I don't know what. I ask that you respect every MP and that the debate goes on about that amendment that's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27531	Of course, I support this, but I think Mr. Chikiriz was just trying to get in touch, which is why he suggested this amendment because he was in sync with this previous amendment. That's how I've experienced it, but I'm also allowing that I'm wrong. I certainly expect all MPs to stick to the agenda, we're talking about the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27532	Thank you, Mr. President. I only wanted to say one sentence to the minister, that this information has, that only Lake Vlassin is at 1230 meters above sea level, and that they are inhabited places or so on. Mahal, with constantly populated people well above that height of Lake Vlassin, the very lake of Vlassin. That's the information you suspected, you can verify, that's the exact information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27533	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27534	Mr. Minister, since I see you hesitate to accept this amendment, another thesis in favour of accepting. So when you compare the Jablanic and the Pcinian district that we were just talking about, they're the same size, same population. This law provides that three basic courts in the Pcinj County with only two in the Jablanic district. So, I'm only in favour of this thesis, to support all the discussions of my colleagues from the Jablani County, that for this reason you should accept this amendment. The second thing, two basic courts in the Jablani district are distributed to 240 thousand inhabitants. So the basic court in Leskovac and the court unit in Vlasotanc would have about 200,000 citizens to serve, and the basic court in Leban would have about 40,000 citizens to serve. The basics in Leskovac with the court unit in Vlasotinc would have about 24 thousand cases, and that is why you should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27535	The 3rd amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27536	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also have a request that you also take my discussion well-intentioned. I really intend to bring down this government, the worst since the arrival of the Southern Slovenians, which is in the absolute interest of the Serbian citizens. I intend to supplement these amendments with this disastrous proposal of the network of courts. First, I'm going to start with this request to open a judicial unit in Backo Petrovac. I think it's a very significant amendment. I bear it on behalf of my friend Pavel Marchok, who I sat with in the parliamentary benches, who is now the president of the Municipality of Baki Petrovac. Respecting the importance that the Slovak community has given to Serbia's development in each segment, in the field of education, culture, painting. This morning, the first four directors of the Karlovak High School were Slovaks from Baki Petrovec, and it is important that we respect our national minorities and ethnic communities and we can show that respect by allowing these people to have a judicial unit, regardless of what they will say about Bucky Petrovac near Novi Sad, regardless of any other beliefs, I am absolutely persistent in the request that Baki Petrovac be given a judicial unit. My second request is that Guca continue to have a judicial unit, Gucha covers a large territory, because I see that the altitude is very important for the amendments. The cabler is a place, a mountain above Guca 985 meters above sea level, and it is important to Guca, not only because of the trumpet Parliament, but also because there are 36 inhabited places, not because I am born from the village of Planinci, from Dučalovic, a heroic neighborhood, but because you should think when you go to Nova Varoš, you will go there through Ovcar Banja, next to Cablar, through the Ovcar-Cablar ravine, and the people will ask you what we don't have more judicial units, you should take care of it. I think it's a good amendment, a meaningful amendment. Of course, I'm not going to talk about what I said this morning that your every law is a coward's egg, it's actually a matter of terminating the court in Kosovo Mitrovica. While I was already at the court in Kosovo Mitrovica, I was absolutely convinced, since the elections were held there, that the first Deputy Prime Minister would ask our boxkeepers to enter Kosovo Mitrovica for 45 minutes, to count votes, to bring some sack of stolen ballots to the court in Kosovo Mitrovica, while there is still a dilemma to solve, whether that Pantic last night is the same with this Pantic from tonight and whether these elections are finally valid or not. Of course, I'm amazed because I got a text from students from Kosovo Mitrovica who say it's incomprehensible for teachers who teach in Kosovo Mitrovica to easily cross the court, and they know as history teachers what a court means for a people at KIM. It is simply incomprehensible that their teachers will come tomorrow to teach at the University of Kosovo Mitrovica, and they will vote to abolish the court. Of course, these people know what the consequences leave, because the next day they're going to vote for an end to the university. In the end, I don't understand why there isn't a court in Ariel and a judicial unit in Koseric, Ljig? It's probably where the courthouses have hard walls, so when the president's advisor comes in to type in a picture of the president, she'll stay a hole above the picture, because she doesn't go above the picture, above the image of the president, to drill the wall three times. I'm absolutely sure that you will soon bring the amendment and that every court will have to have a picture of the president, just to determine who will upload the pictures. I don't want to be a pain in your ass, quoting those historical words, which is why the president's picture is standing under that hole like it's been dug in, not a hammer that's been knocked and your hands are probably shaking as you knock and your hands are restless, not just your conscience. To finish, you cannot convince me that you are doing these favors to the citizens of Serbia and that justice will be more accessible. It is not true, you will remove 96 judicial units, the people of Guca, Dučalovic, Jelen Dol will have to go to Požega first and from Požega to Aryl, and from Aryl to Ivanjic. You know what winters are in that area when it snows, it's gonna be hard for them to get to court and witnesses and others, and I think this is enough that I've shown you why at least part of this amendment should be accepted, and unfortunately it can't just be accepted part of the amendment, it can be an entire amendment, but I'm sorry that Guca is left without a judicial unit, I'm sorry that Bucky Petrovac is left without a judicial unit. At some new government, it will be to fix it, because when the Supreme Institutions collapse in this way, when the top becomes bottom, and that bottom, then it's the bottom even deeper and we're going back into that abyss that you brought Serbia into in the 1990s, which is bad for both you and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27537	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Krekic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27538	Mr. Branislav Krekic has proposed an amendment to establish a basic court in Vladimirci for the territory of the municipalities of Vladimirci and Koceljev and has given an argument. The municipality of Vladimirci makes up 29 settlements, I won't talk about history, about the former Srega Court of Vladimirs, even after World War II, but the fact is that only that municipality extends to the surface of about 338 square kilometers and that the municipality has 23.5,000 inhabitants. The inflow of the case according to the records Mr. Krekic had about 3000 items a year, and the fact that in 1994 and 1995, an old building of about 370 square meters was renovated and a new part was built in the area of about 300 square meters. It is now a beautifully equipped building with decorated courtrooms, cabinets and other necessary space. The building also houses other judicial authorities, the public prosecutor's office and the municipal body for violations. By the way, the fact is that Shabac is a distance from the easternmost point of the municipality, over 55km from Beljin. These are the reasons why Mr Branislav Krekic proposed a basic court in Vladimirci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27539	The People's MP, Vesna Jovicki, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27540	I asked with my amendment that Kovin be returned to the basic court, or that Kovin be no longer a judicial unit, but that he have his own judgment. We also saw during today's debate that many MPs spoke from both the post and the opposition that the citizens of the Kovin municipality would have major problems. There was also talk about whether it was easier or harder to travel to Panchev, or Smedereva, and for that very reason I think that Mr. Minister should accept my amendment and resolve this dilemma and that Kovin should receive the basic court. Of course, there are also arguments why Kovin should have a court, which is that the municipality of about 40,000 inhabitants, where it is a multinational environment, that the court has its own tradition that it was founded in 1872 and that it was once, that Kovin had a court even when Panchevo had it, that there was a building that meets all the spatial and technical conditions and what is particularly important to me is that this law provides for Kovin to be a judicial unit of the basic in Smederevo, and we know, when it comes to the Ministry of Interior that Kovin falls under the jurisdiction of Panchev. That's what counterpart Srdjan Mikovic was talking about, and I think there will be problems when a crime takes place on the territory of the Kovin municipality where Pancheva, or Kovina, will need to react to the inspector and the prosecutor will have to come from Pancheva. I think this will have a negative impact on the safety and security of the citizens of the Kovin municipality. The second part of my amendment refers to the assignment of judicial units to the municipalities of Alibunar, Plandište and Kovacica. We've seen that the committee's proposal said that Kovacica will have a judicial unit, which is fine, but I think that both Alibunar and Landište should have their own judicial units. For example, the Alibunar is 38 kilometers away from Panchev. About 20,000 citizens live there, and they will all have to travel to Panchevo to achieve their basic rights or interests. You, Mr. Minister, are still somewhere in the discussion that I still have to answer in principle – is there a detailed analysis of the costs and savings of this kind of network and how much savings will it be? I specifically asked for the court in Alibunar how much the judges work there, whether these judges live in Alibunar, and does that mean now that they will have to travel together with all these citizens to work in Pancevo and whether the state will pay, of course, those travel expenses as well as those travel expenses, the registerers, whether they will all travel to Pancevo and what costs will it be, because it turns out that here and the state has expenses and, of course, the citizens who, em will have to travel, will have to pay for it, which is not even cheap today? We see here, through these amendments that I have suggested that simply passing this law somewhere, citizens will be the biggest losers, and what is particularly important to us in the U.S.S.R. is that people living in the interior are allowed the conditions that they can stay there. One of the basic preconditions for people to stay in the places they live is to have access to institutions, state institutions. In this case, it seems to me that their right is being violated somewhere and they are being sent a bad message because they will not remain in their places because of their good promises. You'll agree, it's the most expensive thing when cities are empty and when we're left with virtually empty territories without people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27541	National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27542	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Section 3. 18. I would also like to propose that point 18 reads – The basic court in Svilinc for the territory of the municipalities of Svilajnac and Despotovac with the judicial unit in Despotovac. In 2010, the municipality of Svilajnac was left without a municipal court, although the tradition of the existence of a judiciary in the municipality of Svilajnac, since 1825, when the then magistrate’s district court for territory, or Resavski County, was established, where the geographical municipality of Svilajnac and the town of Svilajnac themselves are the headquarters of the Resav County. This bill does not return the basic court to Svilajnci but returns to Despotovac, while the Svilajnci remains only a judicial unit. If we go from criteria such as tradition, the existence of a court, such as the geographical position of Svilajnci compared to the highway, to Belgrade, Kragujevac, Jagodin, that the towns of Smedereva, Požarec, which is much more favourable than the Despotovac, if we go from Svilajnac city to the municipality of Despotovac, if we go from the Sviljanac municipality to the municipality of Sviljanac, it was built exclusively for the affairs of the judiciary, if we go from the quality of work and from the number of cases of the court in Svilajnc and Despotovac, they may be measured by the number of cases, but Svilajnac had eight permanent judges by 2010 and one time and ten permanent judges and 5,000 cases per year. If, then, we take these criteria into account it's safe, and you've mostly called them when you've been setting the base courts' seats, obviously that when we compare Svilajnac and Despotovac, I can't agree that these criteria were crucial. I'd rather say that right here between Despotovec and Svilinec, she ruled political membership of the local coalition, because in Despotovac, SNS and SPS are in the coalition, two key parties, and in Svilinc DSS and SPS. I'm just asking you -- would it be any different if the situation were different in SNS and SPS, and in Despotovac DS and SPS, would this be the situation? I am free to say that this time, when you were determining the seat of the court between Svilinec and Despotovec, you were handling political motives and that's why Svilajnac lost the basic court and Despotovac got it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27543	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov and Rajko Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment were submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov and MP Slavoljub Lajkovic, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27544	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment that I propose that the Court of Justice in Zajecar remain a judicial unit in Bolovac, especially because of the different formats of judicial units that will be brought to life after the adoption of this set of judicial laws. I mean, of course, the trial and the guilt and the lawsuits in the judicial units. As for other reasons, and they are specifically related to the municipality of Bolovac, it is one of the most dissociative municipalities in Serbia, stretching to 827km square with more than 14,000 inhabitants. The demographic picture of Bolec is bad with mostly nursing households, and going to Zaječar for justice, which is 40 kilometers from the center of the municipality, and from the most remote villages Krivi Vir, Rujište and Bačevica, for example, over 60 kilometers away, and not just the master's direction, was an attack on any difficult social and material situation and was practically impossible for the largest number of people in the municipality of Bolec, especially in winter conditions. The number of cases in the work of a judicial unit in Bolovac justifies the existence of that judicial unit, I stress if we also care about the costs of citizens, not just the state. In the event of the suspension of the judicial unit, the costs of transport for judges, staff and judicial units in Bolovac for travel to Zaječar would be significantly higher than the current monthly running costs for municipal services for the building of a judicial unit. These costs in general are paid today by the Court of Justice in Zajecar and if part of the building is used by the Criminal Court in Zajecar, the department in Bolovac that remains under the bill, and even these material and technical reasons do not contribute to the abolition of the judicial unit in Bolovac. I am not going to talk now about the court tradition in Bolovac dating back to 1848, I would just like to say that I support the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors in principle, but I am asking you, Mr. Minister, that because of the clear specificities that I have spoken about, once again, you look at the data and think about this proposal from amendments whose acceptance will not compromise the basic objectives that need to be achieved, which are an efficient and economic network of courts, in order to ensure respect for the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period and to achieve citizens' equality in every respect. On the contrary, a number of citizens will recognise the state's determination to help them achieve their constitutional and legal rights and these are the basic arguments and reasons why I proposed this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27545	National MP Slavoljub Vlajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27546	Dear Ministers, the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors abolishs the judicial unit in Vojac, which is already being talked about, which operates under the current law within the basic court in Zajecar. The abolition of such a judicial unit would have multiple negative consequences on the availability of justice and the exercise of other rights before the Court of Justice of the Municipality of Bolec. The municipality of Bolec is geographically dissociated from views that belong to the elderly, with very pronounced migration of young people, according to its social profile. The geographically unaccessible terrain, poor traffic connections and the harsh winter climate that make this territory even more isolated and cut off and thus a path to justice, for the majority of the people of the Bolec municipality, makes it difficult, especially inaccessible, because in the winter months for the locals of many villages, including the township itself, going to justice represents an impossible mission. The survival of the judicial unit would mean the slowdown and collapse of this environment, from which judges, lawyers and other young intellectuals would go, as the judicial authorities left. A non-judgmental environment is doomed to die, as it becomes unconscious all other attempts to stop eviction and create better conditions for the lives of those citizens who have defined themselves to live in these unaccessible and undeveloped environments, what the territory of the Bolec municipality is. I believe that by holding down a judicial unit in Bolovac, it would slow down these negative processes greatly. I'd just like to add that the same goes for the Srlig court. Here, just now, a colleague spoke for the rest of the courts. I believe that the other colleagues who spoke here, 90% were talking about Vojvodina and Belgrade. I believe that the south of Serbia and the southeast of Serbia are a very specific environment, where there is no more economy. You just said that we don't have school anymore, we don't have students, so at least we try the courts and the judicial units. Or that solution that you made, that there would be days of judgment. Maybe it's some sort of solution, but not to let those days of court be once a year, but to be at least once a week. The Socialist Party will support all amendments and this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27547	National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27548	With this amendment, we asked that the judicial units remain in Secnje, Novi Crnja and Backo Petrovac and Titell. I'm afraid by proposing this law and the citizens of these municipalities we have separated from justice. I just don't know how you think to meet this goal, which you stated in the bill, that the right to equal and easy access to court is expected? For example, the municipality of Nova Crnja is about 30km away from Kikinda and there is no direct bus line for Kikinda from New Montenegro at all. Titel is 47 kilometers from Novi Sad. Imagine a mother who has to exercise her right to alimony, how many times she has to go to Novi Sad to get it done. Instead of even having such a law that the state sues on her behalf and gives her the right to alimony, we now, for example, force such mothers to travel 50 kilometers in one direction, in order to exercise their right to do so. Or, one worker, to whom the employer has not paid off the profits and contributions, must also travel that 50km in one direction and, of course, to pay for a ticket that is certainly not cheap. Therefore, Ministers, I ask you to reconsider and adopt the amendment that has been proposed by the U.S.S.S.S. to leave Secnje, Novi Crnja, Bačka Petrovac and Titell to the judicial units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27549	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cikiriz and Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment were submitted by MPs Cedomir Protic, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Aleksandar Radojevic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27550	Mr. Minister, the DSS did not support the network of courts proposed by your predecessor, because certain solutions in it were scandalous and unwarranted to us. To be honest, in this bill you have corrected certain, even historical, injustices and respected the DSS proposal that Gornji Milanovac has the court again, you have respected our request that Ivanica, a municipality within the Moravia County, finally be turned towards Cačka, not towards Uzic. Along with MPs from seven other parliamentary groups in this House, I request that the judicial unit be retained in Guca. You can call this localpatriotism or otherwise try to explain it, but I believe that for one municipality, like the municipality of Luciani, which has an area of over 500 km square, where nearly 22 thousand inhabitants live, who have a fully equipped court building, renovated some 10 years ago, which still works, in which they will continue to operate the division of the Chačka Criminal Court, in no way increase the costs of that court, and the building. We have qualified judges here doing their job, and we think it's extremely important for the citizens of Guce to have that unit. I'm saying this because I know that people. Luciani and Guca are within the same municipality, but trust me that these two centres are divided by the number of inhabitants, even in Guca more people live than in Luciani, and I think that for those citizens living in Guca, the loss of the judicial unit will be a big problem. One who does not know the configuration of the terrain, one who only goes to the Dragačevski Assembly, which is held in August of the month, thinks that the roads towards Guca are always so fleeting, believe me that in winter conditions, the right of the lottery to come down from Guca to Ivanjica, in which the citizens of this region will have to go to give them access to justice. That is why I ask you once again to consider this amendment. I say once again, seven parliamentary groups are behind this. I don't think it's going to be a big problem for the Ministry and for you to accept it, since the costs don't increase in any way, and that judicial unit to the citizens of Guce really is of vital importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27551	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27552	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would like to join my former colleague and I would like to support what has been proposed through the amendment, and that is to get that judicial unit. Given that everything has been said many times, about Guca, about the Lucians, that it is a dissociated territory, the minister knows it, from Požega to Kralje and from Ivanjica to Cačak, that it is a mountain high. The city itself is divided into two parts – to Luciane and Guč, there are still Kotra and some smaller places. I don't think that under this law on the network, reorganising courts would be a big problem if Guca, who wouldn't cost too much of the state or the budget, had his own little judicial unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27553	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27554	Just for a while, since our colleague Snezana Bogosavljevic also submitted the same amendment. We support that, and I've already said that today when I was talking about the amendment committee. It's about the same amendment and supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27555	National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic submitted the 3rd amendment together. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, the MP club of the NS, in particular my colleagues Miroslav Markicevic and Velimir Stanojevic, have submitted an amendment where Article 3rd point 22 is amended and reads: "The basic court in Ivanjica, for the territory of the municipality of Ivanjica and Lucana, with a judicial unit in Guca, for the territory of the municipality of Luciani. “ As all my previous colleagues have repeatedly pointed out, I believe that this amendment of the NS should be accepted, as well as the other colleagues, who submitted this amendment in the same text. I want to explain in a few sentences what I mean by that. Namely, a judicial unit in Guca until the end of September 2013 has a total of about 6,000 cases with a further trend in the number of cases, especially in relation to the period before 2010, when it was established as a judicial unit. Only this numerical data indicates the fact that this judicial unit fully meets the conditions for its further existence and functioning. Eight judges have been working in a judicial unit in Guca in the previous period since 1 January 2010 and so far in litigation, desert and executive matter. The Guca Judicial Unit is set up under the provisions of still current law as an organisational part of the Basic Court in Caca, fully accessible to the citizens of the Municipality of Luciani, as the most remote settlement in the municipality of Luciani is about 35 kilometers from the seat of the judicial unit in Guca, while to the headquarters of the General Court in Ivanjica, whose jurisdiction is established in accordance with the solution in the new Bill proposal, this distance is 70 kilometers. A few more clumps that make me think this amendment should be accepted, is that the same building in Guca is currently being used by the Department of Violent Court in Chačka, for which the proposal for a new law provides for it to continue to exist. Economic reasons are also important. In fact, the structure of the Municipality of Luciani's economy also fully justifys the existence of a judicial unit in Guca, especially because of labour disputes, because companies, companies and entrepreneurs employ a large number of workers. The historical reasons why this amendment should be accepted are that they are undoubtedly in favour of the existence of a judicial unit in Guca, because since the end of May of 1947, there has been a meeting court in Guca for the administrative section of Dragačevsky, followed by a municipal court in Guca for the municipality of Luciani, continuously until 1 January 2010. Therefore, all of the above reasons as well as the need to make the citizens of the Municipality of Luciani available judicial authority, and thus more effective protection and exercise of the rights provided for by the law of the Republic of Serbia and guaranteed by the Constitution justify the existence of a judicial unit in Guca, as an integral part of the basic court in Ivanjica. Mr. Minister, I would once again ask that, in addition to the many practical solutions we have offered as MPs, make another exception when it comes to Guca, as one of the cities many people in the world have heard of. Guca is one special brand of Serbia and all these historic, economic, commercial and other reasons suggest that the amendment of New Serbia's MPs, Miroslav Markevic and Velimir Stanojevic, therefore, New Serbia's parliamentary groups should be accepted, but of course if we do not support the other solutions, of course, but once again we ask the minister to make an exception and to assign what we asked for with the New Serbia amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27557	Thank you. The People's MP, Milica Dronjak, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Zoltan Peck, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Karolj Chizik. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Elvira Kovac submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment were submitted by MPs Konstantin Arsenovic and joint MPs Dr Zoran Radovanovic and Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 3rd amendment in the same text was submitted by Snezana Paunovic and Slavica Saveljic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27558	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you explained the laws in detail, primarily the laws as we spoke in principle. We MPs have submitted a large number of amendments, I think over 400 to this whole package of judicial laws, all in the intention of, of course, fixing these laws together further. Unfortunately, most of the amendments have not been accepted, and this is our last chance to convince you by the power of the arguments that some of the amendments might have accepted. The amendment that I have submitted, although officially submitted on behalf of the URS parliamentary group, is in fact the conclusion of the local parliament in Batocina, the conclusion that they oblige you to leave a judicial unit in Batocina. That was the conclusion that all the committee groups agreed on regardless of which sides they came from, whether from the opposition or from the government, I must stress that the committees of your political party voted for this conclusion. Since they passed the conclusion to the Ministry of Justice, I think you have had the opportunity to get acquainted with their arguments, and they have called for a different argument and a court tradition that is longer than 40 years and the fact that since 2010 there has been a judicial unit in Batocina and on the number of cases, on staff training, on spatial equipment, but also on the fact that the court itself in Kragujevac where the judicial unit from Batocina should now cross over, is actually overbooked. Your arguments that you rejected this argument, of course with whom you have been discussing all along, were different and primarily related to the rationalisation of the costs that we can agree with, but among other things you talked about Serbia dying unfortunately, that in many areas there are fewer children, fewer young people, less and less to put out schools, to shut down health institutions, and therefore there are not many reasons why there are even judicial units. In Batocina which is 30 kilometers from Kragujevac there are children and young people, there are schools and that and primary and secondary ones, there are also homes of health, churches and home of culture, kindergartens, and nearby are highways with an extraordinary location, with solid infrastructure. So they have everything you've been saying that others are missing and that's exactly why life is being extinguished in those environments. There are also quite solid conditions for the work of a judicial unit and enough personnel and objects. We as a party that originally advocates Serbia's decentralisation, think that places such as Batocina are centralized by Serbia as well as those that group life and institutions in Belgrade, but also in other major places, regardless of whether it is Kragujevac, Nis or Novi Sad. In these few days, we haven't even heard the arguments, and maybe you said them, I apologize if I haven't heard, what happens to the space currently used either as a court building or as a judicial unit. So if these spaces are going to remain in the role of judicial authorities or other budget users, then I really don't see how we're going to rationalize and save. If your space stays empty for years, then it's something that's the most expensive account we all pay. If it will be used again occasionally in so-called. On mandatory days of jurisprudence, then I ask – who will pay the bills at the other time when these buildings are not in office? For all of these reasons, we urge you once again to consider and try to keep a judicial unit in Batocina, because we really think that this way we will not gain quality, that we will not make significant savings and that only the citizens of Serbia will be at a loss. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Radoslav Komlenović, Vesna Kovac and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27559	Given that this amendment has been submitted in the same text as part of the amendments submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and in this section concerning the area of the General Court in Kruševec, which provides for the establishment of a judicial unit in Barvarin, I think it is correct and, on my part, to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27560	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Bojana Djordjevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27561	Just so you know what this is about. It's exactly the same amendment for Barvarin and Siticovac, to get a judicial unit. It's accepted, just to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27562	National MPs Mirjana Dragas and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Dujovic, Ivana Dinic and MP Nenad Kitanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Mujo Mukovic, joint MPs Bajro Gegic and Enis Imamovic and MP Srdjan Dragojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27563	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, of this amendment, in one way or another, has been spoken several times today. It is the fact that this proposal to amend and supplement the law abolishes the court, i.e. the judicial unit in Backo Petrovac. We discussed why we believe Bucky Petrovac should have court. This is because the majority, over 70%, of the Slovak population, lives in Bačka Petrovac. It's because of the fact that this court has a tradition. In general, Baki Petrovac has a tradition in many areas. Something related to the history of Vojvodina and Serbia is in Bakko Petrovac. For example, the first cooperative in today's Serbia was founded in Bačka Petrovac. The court has an uninterrupted tradition. Not to mention other aspects that might confirm my thesis, that there is a building, that there are judges, that there are people who know Slovak. We will now, according to this proposal, and in Backo Petrovac we will lose the judicial unit. Is that, Minister, for rationalization? You were talking about how many cases there are in that court. However, this should not be a criterion for such municipalities in which the minority population lives and in which the existence and survival in this area is threatened. It's just like when you were talking about the Shadow, and I remember when you said that the area was isolated, that the snows were falling in winter, that they couldn't come to another place, or that Tutin was at stake. Right? The same situation is with Bucky Petrov. I really don't see why you're so persistent, I don't want to use any harder words when it comes to Bucky Petrovic. It seemed to me, at least when I spoke to your associates before the principle debate on this matter began, that you would have an understanding of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27564	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27565	Thank you. For the same reason I'm reporting for this amendment as this morning. We have repeatedly discussed the need for a judicial unit in Bakko Petrovac. The thing that bothers me the most is that it does not present the reasons that are really standing, but is trying to make some difference between the two peoples living in Backo Petrovac. There is also a Serb people who no one here proposing amendments has mentioned, of course, as well as members of the national minority. It is constantly pointed out that some of the fundamental rights of the national minority in Bačka Petrovac are being threatened, which absolutely does not stand. It's a very strange thesis, if you can see there's a basic unit in Kovacica on the other hand. Today we presented the reasons and that this is a much bigger place, twice as big as Bucky Petrovic. Also, there are many more numerous members of the Slovak national minority than Baki Petrovac. If we're going to compare and if it's one of the criteria, and it was, what kind of courts are in one and the other place, of course the court in Kovacica has a priority. Several times, several times, and when we talked in the principle debate and now in particular, we see that somehow it simply doesn't reach the difference between language knowledge, as someone says, and the use of the official language of national minorities. It's a whole other thing, other matter regulated by special law. That's what drew your attention here and members of the national minorities who are MPs in this House, not to chase those two notions and not to be bigger than them. So, the number of people in Backo Petrovac, as many of them have been evicted and moved to live and work in Novi Sad, what are the number of objects, that would also like to hear from you, when you're so much in favour that there is a judicial unit in Backo Petrovac, and the proximity between those two places doesn't need it at all. At least MPs from Novi Sad to comment and residents of Bačka Petrovec, indeed as little as they have the need for access to justice come very happily to Novi Sad, as they come every morning to work in Novi Sad and as they come every morning to seek medical services or to be educated. All this doesn't exist in Backo Petrovac and they come to Novi Sad for it. Therefore, I understand you, "Repetio est mother studiorum", that it is necessary to repeat, repeat, repeat, three days at this session that one's rights are at risk. But reality will deny you when this new network of courts comes into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27566	National MP Janko Veselinovic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27567	My colleague, Maja Gojkovic, I hope there is no bad intentions when he tries to defend what is indefensible. This reminds me of that thesis that all Serbian citizens will live in Belgrade in communism. It is not intended for citizens of Backo Petrovec, among other things, to have no court living in Novi Sad or to travel each morning to Novi Sad. They would love most if they could satisfy their basic needs in Bačka Petrovac, as well as all of these residents of the cities and municipalities we talked about. Who was talking about the conflict among the nations? On the contrary, I may have been well-intentioned not to politicise this topic to say that Slovakia is one of the countries that has not recognised Kosovo, that the Slovak country which has recognised the Serb national minority although for this there was no technical and legal conditions at that time. Legal assumptions were created that the Serbian national minority would be recognised in Slovakia. Now I could ask you – do you know how many Serbs live in Slovakia? It is one of the few countries in the EU that has always been a friend of Serbia without a fig in its pocket. In that sense, I would not want to waste my words to prove friendship between the Serbian and Slovak people. I guess that's not a question to anyone. What kind of discord? I just believe that for these reasons, historical, cultural and all the others, Baki Petrovac should have his own judicial unit, at least a judicial unit, if he can't have a basic court.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27568	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27569	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really ask that we be correct and that some things that should not be mixed, and especially when it leads in some other unwanted direction, we involve them in this debate. Look out, the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the political will of all relevant political entities on its scene, is the only country in Europe that has a system of national councils of national minorities. That doesn't have any other countries in Europe. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Which suggests the possibility of protecting, protecting human and minority rights at the highest level. That's exactly what some of the MPs were talking about. So is this a bill that will satisfy everyone and everyone? It's not. If it were intended to return the basic court to any municipality where there was a municipal court, then most of those who today regret that there is no judicial unit or the basic court would jump to say this is irrational, who will pay for this. Today, when a solution is given, which we consider to be rational and is the only one that is rarely possible at this time, is no good either. Come on, be honest and say that even often, when something repeats itself four, five, or 15 times, which is enough for every reasonable person. Normally, to use the assembly pay phone to contact our voters at the bar and show them how we fight for their interests. As far as the Slovak national minority is concerned, it has already been said. It's true. When you look at the percentage in Bačka Petrovac, about 70% of the members of the Slovak national minority live, unless I'm wrong on the last list of 72%. But it's twice as much as the number of Slovaks living in Kovacica. Although their percentage is slightly less than 50% in Kovacica, it is seen as a percentage, it is significantly higher in Kovacica. By handling this very reason, that one truly national minority that has always shown one great loyalty to the Republic of Serbia as its country, should not be damaged in this regard. Managing that Baki Petrovac is closer to Novi Sad, than Kovacica is closer to Pancheva, handling the number of items, the inflow of objects that exist. I mentioned earlier, if we're talking about a classic lawsuit, the monthly inflow in Bačka Petrovac is 2.61 subjects, so ten times smaller than the judge's norm should be. Ten times smaller. I think the reason is absolutely rational. The Slovaks are a wonderful people. Grandma Petrovic has something for them that no one has said in today's debate, so here's what I'm going to say because I have no reason to hide. Grandma Petrovac has one special historical significance for them that has nothing to do with justice, with nothing, with business, with nothing else. It is a kind of capital of Slovakia in Serbia because the Slovaks, when at the time of the Habsburg monarchy emigrated to today's Vojvodina, were first inhabited in Baki Petrovac. Does this have anything to do with the survival or establishment of a judicial unit in that city, which even the Slovaks themselves will not serve as much as they would, again, with the same Slovaks in Kovacica, that it is not there? I say again, the law has been made according to some criteria of our ability as a state. I think this solution is more rational. Of course, there are those of the Slovak people, but others living in that area, who would advocate that in any place mentioned be a judicial unit, or a basic court, especially today when the judicial unit is almost even with the court. Mixing international relations with this really, really, there's no room. What I mentioned at the beginning of this replication, or exposure, here's what I'm going to say right now. The Republic of Serbia is the only country that has the concept of national councils of national minorities. Of course, to be extremely politically correct, that concept was adopted during the term of office of the last government. It's starting to work. Only once have elections been held for national councils of national minorities. To conclude that, as a competent ministry, we have brought to an end the work of writing amendments to that law, because as far as the next year, which is the election year for national councils of national minorities, there are elections to be held again, and some of the shortcomings that the law has shown in practice, and there are, and they really are essential to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27570	Replica, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27571	Minister, you almost said most of the things I said. You have also told the fact that I have not said that the Republic of Serbia has passed legislation that best protects national minorities. That's what you just said. You did not say for the sake of political correctness, that you as an opposition party did not vote in favour of the law during that period. It's not a irrelevant fact. On the other hand, sensitivity for national minorities is not irrelevant to the position of our people living outside Serbia's borders. You know that only about two million Serbs live in the region. Every scale we raise in this regard means our right to seek similar rights in Croatia, the Federation, Macedonia, Slovenia and not to list all countries in the region, as recognized by the Law on Serbs in the region and Serbs in the diaspora. In that sense, it doesn't matter when some rights are questioned, even this way. I'm not saying that the Slovaks will not have the right to exercise judicial protection, or use their language in Novi Sad. But you said so yourself. Baki Petrovac is the capital of Slovakia in Serbia. That capital won't have a judicial unit. If there's so much money, you said 2.5 items a month. Please tell me which court as a judicial unit won that status and what limit was it? Is that five items a month, three, two, one, and that's why Bucky Petrovac lost his criteria? Was that the only criterion?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27572	National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I disagree with the amendment's proposal. I think I'd rather understand that he suggested that the judicial unit be placed in the Title or the Frog, given the distance of the Title and the Frog from the New Sad. Baki Petrovac is about 20km from Novi Sad, and is larger than some suburban municipalities in Novi Sad and Belgrade, from Bačka Petrovac to the court. So there's even more reason for someone to get a court unit. I want to say something next. That all of us here have proposed amendments mainly because of prestige, because of the environment and the law offices that operate in our cities. I didn't propose an amendment. No matter what Old Paz, as a city, has 18,645 inhabitants and has been courted. India has 26,000 inhabitants and 0.25, but it has a judicial unit. But I understand that a judicial unit, except for a lawsuit, can judge, or judge and guilty, so that one is called a court, and the other is called a judicial unit. There are 6,000 Slovaks living in Old Paz. In India, the number in the city is much smaller. One of the reasons why Stara Paz was courted, and Indjia did not, or only received the judicial unit is that in Stara Paz, a number of Slovaks and national minorities had the right advantage and positive discrimination. That's what I appreciated. I also appreciated the fact that the Indjia Unit would shut down its needs, a team before all of Sremm and all of these Slovaks from Stara Paz traveled 70-80 km to the basic court in Sremska Mitrovica during the former regime, to meet some of their judicial needs. I say this as a man who grew up with the Slovaks, who live eight miles away from me, who lived on my street too. But a significant group, about 6,000 of them, lives in Old Paz. So, as someone who grew up with the Slovaks, it's about an extremely decent, honest and above all working national group. Not wanting to be a bigger Slovak Slovak Slovak, I just want to say that the criteria when deciding whether to get a court or a judicial unit were respected that the national group was expressed in Old Paz to a considerable extent and that some of the criteria that they also have a basic court is respected in Old Paz. Now, I think it would have been a lot to do with Bucky Petrov. So, I don't want to go into any disputes, but I think someone here wants to say that some national minorities, first of all in Vojvodina and the Vojvodina itself, are damaged by this proposal, which absolutely doesn't stand. In the last 12-13 years, since one regime has been in power in Vojvodina, Vojvodina has long been out of the sea but is sinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27574	MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I agree with you that it is dangerous as a political weapon to serve and argue on such examples the state of Serbia with national smaller but also with sovereign states. We all have to ask ourselves what's more important - a political point, a daily, a small, tiny, or a state? A party or a state? The Serbian Progressive Party has always advocated and will always stand for the state, no matter how much it costs us, no matter how thorny the way is. It is dangerous to argue Serbia's state with any national minority, and Mr. Minister also described the national councils of national minorities and all possibilities. It's time to bond, it's time to co-life, it's time to live in Serbia, not fight. To whom an argument is to earn a small, tiny point that will be forgotten in half an hour will have a great burden and ballast both in his political career and in everything he does. Double arches or double standards are dangerous when used in politics, but also when used in life. Because of these double SNS standards, they will not vote for this amendment. And why do I say double standards? Baki Petrovac is almost connected with Novi Sad, 15 to 20 km away is, I trust my colleagues who live their whole lives in that area, and now it bothers us and now let's argue the legislator with the national minority, so let's say – yes, we were right, we would do better. And then when they could do better, when they could do more, four years ago, the Belgrade city municipalities had a much greater distance and the citizens of those municipalities, the Belgrade citizens had a much greater distance, the whole of Belgrade had two basic courts. Does the proposer of this amendment know what is the distance between Barai and the Second Basic Court then and now? He doesn't know. So, double standards. Now the arguments are decentralisation. We're afraid of centralization. Now, according to this bill, Belgrade has three basic courts and a number of judicial units. According to a former bill, 34 basic courts, now 66. Where's the decentralisation? Double arches. When the former mayor of Belgrade was to be put in his hands, all the power of this city, the capital of Serbia, was not the problem. I'm just asking you to hold on to the time. ) On the one hand, we worry about decentralisation, and on the other hand, where they had the opportunity to decentralise, they authorised all of Belgrade's municipalities and collected the full power for themselves. Do not look forward to the brief minds of the citizens and of Belgrade and Serbia. Because of the double arches, the SNS will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27576	National MP Janko Veselinović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27577	It's a big thing when individual political options from one or two national minorities' policies offer national rights. However, why did we not get an answer as soon as the National Councils Act was on the agenda, did you not support the law? Why didn't you support the National Councils Act? On the other hand, do not use things that are not true. Today the mountains grow here, right, from 1,100 to 1,500 meters, and now you have reduced the distance of Bačka Petrovac and Novi Sad by 10 km. The distance between Novi Sad and Bačko Petrovec is 24 km and 500 meters, not 15 km, Mr. Babić. You should know all of Serbia, you're not the head of the parliamentary group just for the part where you live. You should not insult the citizens of Vojvodina who live in that territory. It is impossible for Serbia and Vojvodina to shrink in the winter and the summer to expand. How can you ignore 10 kilometers? So there are 25 kilometers between Novi Sad and Bakko Petrovec. It is the capital of Slovakia and I ask you why you did not vote for the National Councils Act? Tell me why you didn't vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27578	Minister Selakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27579	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's really be correct. Why didn't the party to whom I had the honour and the pleasure of belonging vote for the law? Certainly not because it is against the rights of national minorities. When you enter something completely unique and nowhere yet checked or introduced into the world, then you express a high degree of doubt about it. If one of you is in favour of abolishing it, it can come out with that case, that is, with that proposal, but I will remind you who would advocate doing the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced or reduced. That's a very vivid comparison. Like, say, if I were to say that the parties that did not vote in this assembly for the National Anti-Corruption Strategy are in favour of booming corruption. But I won't say it and I didn't say it because I find it extremely politically incorrect. We can differ in terms of how we see a possible way of doing things. It has been shown in some very important things that the Law on National Councils of National Minorities is a law that contains numerous shortcomings in it. These shortcomings will be changed. But believe me, that would be exactly the case -- you didn't want to vote for the anti-corruption strategy for the next five years, so you're rebelling against corruption for the next five years. What does that look like? I don't know if anyone in Serbia will believe that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27580	The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27581	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I wanted to take advantage of a similar argument, but what is most important – SNS respects that law. We can disagree with some solutions, but we respect, Mr. Veselinovic. We respect you, and we have yet to see how you will define yourself in the future on the fight against corruption, since in the past you have really not proved to be consistent. On the other hand, the distance from one place to another can be measured from center to center, from beginning to end, so it can be 16-17 and can be 24 km. Mr. Vesenovic, 38 billion dinars, as much as your party president's company trafficked, can't be reduced. It can't be washed, it can't be washed, it's how it is in the dinar and in the APR exactly how and what it is. Speaking of geography, I would really like you to show the distance between Belgrade city municipalities, so you can say that this is a better space solution was that more than two million Belgrade residents have two basic courts, what are the distances between Obrenovac and the basic courts, unlike now that there are three basic courts and more judicial units. What's spectacular about when there were 34 basic courts, and now 66, and where is centralization, when the number of basic courts is smaller or when it's larger? You have to add some things the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27582	Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27583	Look, I already said once that our parliamentary group is sticking to it, I think that you chairmans must make sure that this is not the Belgrade City Assembly, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let us not open here topics concerning Belgrade, Novi Sad, cities where the SNS is in power. Let's get back to this subject, Minister Selakovic. You and I are colleagues, as far as I know, right? Let's go back to the lesson of the source of law. It is said that the source of law is the Constitution, law, sublaws, case law, etc., autonomous sources of law. There's no strategy anywhere. The strategy is not a source of law. The strategy is a strategy. A political act that should be governed by executive power, but if the strategy is a particularly pamphlet, and there is no point behind it what your fight against corruption, selective, politically colored, is already another matter. We're the strategy you suggested to this home that you looked at. Unfortunately, we proved to be right. Therefore, do not compare the strategy of any strategy to the Law on National Councils, or any law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27584	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27585	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have now become much more aware of some of the things that have happened in the past when this respected home in some other composition has passed certain strategic acts, and has not treated them as legal acts, because the strategy is adopted by the law-making procedure. You can say it's not true, you can say it now, there's no debate in principle or in particular, so there's no ratification of international contracts. Then it's nice, especially when someone's a lady, not toss when someone else is talking. I'm asking you to intervene, Mr. President, because there are very often identical reactions coming from that side. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brings a very small number of strategic acts, a very small number. Under the circumstances, the government-led ministry proposed two such acts, two strategies, the National Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period until 2018 and the National Strategy for Justice Reform. The normal and usual thing in every parliamentary practice, that opposition parties determine whether or not they will vote for a proposal, and that is quite legitimate, but I did not conclude on the basis of whether someone is against the purpose of adopting a strategic act, as I think it is extremely incorrect to claim that if someone did not vote for the National Councils of National Minorities, it is against the rights of national minorities. So that's exactly the point of my intervention and my comparison. It is necessary to make a difference, that is, there are strategies brought by the Government, as I say, that will soon come to the agenda, the Government of Public Administration Reform Strategy for the period until 2018, but there are two strategies that this distinguished home has brought in the course of this year, one dedicated to reforming the judiciary, one dedicated to fighting corruption. These two topics are on such a high level of importance for certain social topics for the state of Serbia, that they should be passed according to the law provided for in the procedure as for the adoption of the law, among other things because the level of obligation, their level of variability is significantly different from all others. It's not about any political pamphlet, it's about something that independent experts, both domestic and foreign experts have seen as extremely good texts. Of course, we can say the text is one thing, the implementation is another, but since it's started with the implementation of both strategies, let's see how it goes. What I can always say is that in that domain as much as it depends on the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, we will, with all our powers, make every effort and will to fulfill what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has adopted as a strategic act under the law of the envisaged procedure as if it were the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27586	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27587	Mr. Minister, as far as I know, two anti-corruption strategies have been adopted in Serbia so far, one for the period between 2005 and 2010, and the other for the period between 2013 and 2018. It is also in my knowledge that there is no written trace of the effects of the first strategy between 2005 and 2010, except that there is measurable evidence that, unfortunately, by corruption, we have become the first country in Europe, and, on the other hand, if so important for the former regime was the fight against corruption, it shows also the data until 2010, neither anyone wanted, nor who had adopted, nor who had written, nor who worked in the fight against corruption, nor on the strategy, so you have shown the relationship between the former regime and the former government towards the document, but also against corruption. I don't know how much evidence and what everything SNS needs, how to document the fight against corruption? You've had a little bit of a report from the Special Court on the 180 charges brought and confirmed, and everyone sees it. See the international community, see the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only you will not and do not want to see. On the one hand, you do not bring any acts in the fight against corruption, on the other hand you do not want to see what this Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. What do you want? What kind of relationship? What do we do? To be like you? No, we won't be like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27588	Replica, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27589	I'm not picking up any more lines. Mr Babiæ, or the chairman, that I do not address my esteemed colleague Babić, you do not need to document anything, the reality best shows how effective this fight against crime is. Crime is on the rise in all areas. Your general amnesty has led to the fact that today we have people who are sentenced to death, after your amnesty doing crimes, not to talk about violence on sports grounds, that we are not talking about crimes involving organized crime and drug trafficking, that we are not talking about other crimes. It was the previous government that led a serious action in the fight against organised crime. She took away tens of millions of assets from criminals who were free to commit crimes until then and went into action, she didn't finish the job. This government has been left with this job, but don't say that the world starts with you, that you did something that the previous government has allowed to pass without active state policy. Of course, conditions were what they were in the previous period. You've got a knife and a scone now. But unfortunately, you don't use your resources because you collect cheap political points. I'd like to talk to you today about a network of courts on the agenda, not always going back on the subject that you're repeating so stalkerly, which means nothing to ordinary citizens, because unfortunately they realize there's no action behind them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27590	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27591	I'll do one more sentence. If this amnesty and the Amnesty Act, which was adopted last year, is ours, whose Amnesty Act of February 2001? Whose? Whose Amnesty Act of February 2001? The Flyor Brovine that was released, the Drenic Group, who? Whose Amnesty Act is it? Who adopted him? Who brought it? Who applied it? What's that? That's when the criminals didn't come out, that's when the academics came out. What happened then? Then you brought him in. You've introduced amnesty into this space. You've introduced amnesty into this country. So stop once, your amnesty, you let go, you first invented it and made it up in 2001.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27592	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27593	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another political and inappropriate comparison. As it was just a moment ago, where you had not yet voted for it, so you were against it, and now here – you brought amnesty and then the degree of crime in Serbia was suddenly increased. It would be the same as if I were to say now - in 2001 you brought amnesty and then in 2004, there was a March pogrom, because you let all those who were in prison by then, and they started killing again and persecuting people. I'm saying again, how many times have we talked about this, I haven't once taken the opportunity to give such an inappropriate and ugly comparison. As you know, there is no connection between what you said, because it is very clear in the Law on Amnesty that the returnees of amnesty are not concerned, and whoever was patient enough and written enough to read the law could see it, so neither can a conclusion be made – you released in 2001 by amnesty of people, and then in March 2004, they began to persecute and kill again. Various conclusions can be drawn, but let's be correct. Is this where we aim to muddle each other or to pass a law that will allow for better application of rights and a higher level of rule of law in Serbia? I am pleased that the debate took place at one satisfactory and better level, better in any case, than it ran under the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors in 2008. We should all be proud of that. I am proud to see such discussions being held in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a citizen of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27594	The People's MP, Balint Pastor, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Djordje Stojsic. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27595	I'm not talking about amnesty. I'm not talking about a case of pardon. I'm not talking about an amnesty. I'm not talking about a case of pardon. It's a bill of law. In my amendment, practically, I suggested that all those from Kovin be able to stand trial at a judicial unit in Covin, but that the judicial unit be at the General Court in Panchev, not at the basic court in Smederev. I must suggest that Article 13 paragraph 2. The bill has been defined that cases in which no decision has been taken by the courts or by the public prosecutors until the date of the application of this law has been taken, that the competent courts and the public prosecutors established by this law and the Law on the regulation of courts are taking place. This is another reason why it is necessary to think too much about whether everything that has been tried, for example, before the Supreme Court in Pancheva, and it is about, for example, criminal acts committed or if the perpetrators of the Kovin territory, from January 1st cannot be completed, if the case cannot be completed by January 1st, the case shall be brought to court in Smederev. Does that make sense? How many of those objects are there? Here I'm not just talking about cases of jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, where there's a judicial unit here or there, I'm also talking about cases of the Supreme Court. I believe that in the situation of opportunity, I keep this book with me, and today I am learning how to apply the new Code of Criminal Procedure on the need for the prosecutor's investigation to respond to the task set before it. We'll have a situation, for example, that if we drive from Panchev to the White Church, across the Covin territory, depending on where a crime may be committed, God forbid a traffic accident, there will be a competent prosecutor's office in Panchev, Smederev, for example, either Panchev or Vrscu. The procedure, which means if it is such a work, a hard work, an extremely difficult crime, for example, where jurisdiction, for example, is a higher court, we will come to a situation where a police officer from the Panchev-based police department, which is covered by Panchevo, a minor from Belgrade, to the Romanian border, and will come out if the territory of the metal municipality is the prosecutor from Smederev. The second thing, we have a situation that is borderline, whether it's a violation of responsibility or a criminal offence, a police officer will file a criminal report to the Smederev prosecution, and if it's a violation of responsibility, there will be jurisdictional courts with a centre in Panchev. So, judging from the territory of the Kovin municipality in criminal proceedings will go towards Panchev, in the proceedings of economic disputes against Panchev, the basic courts and senior courts towards Smederev. And one more thing to tell you, it's a lot easier to control the territory by the police administration and all that we don't have the limits on the Atara, because so far, the police department has been in charge of the entire Southern Banat. So, up to half the bridge when Kovin's heading for Smederev. In that sense, I call once again, to think about not doing it, especially in this situation where there is a need for adequate application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, not to play with it, if there really is an assessment that this should go with Smeder. There's time, if there's going to be a new law in that part, but I don't think it should be done right now, especially given all the items that are currently under way, and where they're going to come, practically, to stop and everyone's going to watch, let's go over the subject in New Year's Eve, and then let's do somebody else. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27596	The People's MP Judita Popovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27597	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Vlahovic and I have submitted a very similar amendment to the previous and the essence of this amendment is in the following. The Kovin Judicial Unit has so far been located within the General Court in Panchev. The bill stipulates that it belongs to the Smedereva basic court. With the amendment, we propose to amend the bill so that the judicial unit in Kovin continues to belong to the General Court in Pancheva. In addition to the reasons presented by counterpart Mikovic, I will remind you that Vojvodina is a multinational environment, multilingual and multicultural. In southern Banat, which includes municipalities, including the municipality of Kovin, Pančevo, Kovacica, Alibunar, Vrsac, live Hungarians, Romanians, Slovaks, Czechs and other peoples. A while ago, the minister also called for the Constitution himself, and I will remind myself that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, along with a whole series of human and minority rights and freedoms, guarantees the prohibition of all types of discrimination, the protection of human and minority rights and freedoms, the right to equal protection of rights and of legal means, the promotion of respect for differences and the rights of members of national minorities prohibits discrimination of national minorities, guarantees equality in the conduct of public affairs, the right to preserve specialities and others. In the context of all this, the right of members of national minorities to conduct a judicial procedure is also understood, in their language. This would be possible if an existing organisation of courts were to be maintained, because the courts in the territory of South Banat are so organized that they have judges, court interpreters, translators, and experts who are trained to conduct proceedings in languages that are in accordance with the law, in official use in this area. As a confirmation of the correctness of that attitude and of such a division, it is also the fact that, in this principle, they are organized and infringing and commercial courts in this territory. In addition, it also says that the territory of the Kovin municipality is operated by lawyers who are registered in the register of the Vojvodina Bar, which is the Police Administration working in the area, based in Pancheva. All this points to the need for Kovin to remain within the Southern Banat and under the jurisdiction of the General Court in Panchev. In the light of the refusal of the amendment, it cannot be accepted as justified. One word does not call for an explanation that we have given in addition to the amendment, but talks about how the costs of maintaining judicial units are large, there is the maintenance of parentheses, the cost of utility, the salaries of employees, and to make the maintenance of the Kovin judicial unit significantly increase the costs of the General Court in Pancheva. But I don't see a reason for this, and I don't think it's justified, because the Covin court unit isn't shutting down, so to create some savings on these costs that are counted here. She stays, she just moves. It doesn't belong to one court anymore. It belongs to another court. Also, it does not stand for this part of the argument that the Grand Plan and Smederjevska Palanka came out of the basic court in Smederevo, and only the Smederevo Court remained, so to increase its scope the judicial unit from Kovin is attached. We can't because someone's singled out to punish the other guy and put him together where things don't belong by nature. If you are calling for citizens to be closer, to use the needs they meet in court, to come to justice and justice, I think that the fact that Smederjevo is a little closer than Panchev is not a reason enough, because from all of South Banat, the whole Banat and all of Vojvodina's rights are being exercised in Novi Sad, and it is not a problem to go to Novi Sad. It's not a problem when we need to get directions for some specialist review. We don't win for Belgrade because it's closer to us, but we get for Novi Sad if the same services are done both in Belgrade and in Novi Sad. So we wouldn't really be able to accept such arguments, so we suggest you reconsider and accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27598	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27599	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really need to look back on something that has been said, and I don't believe anyone rational in Serbia can support it. Do you think it is rational to go from Pancheva which is 17 kilometers from Belgrade to the Clinical Center in Novi Sad? It's not rational. That's very, very bad. A man in sanity from Pancheva to Novi Now can die ten times. Because someone thought it was okay. I'm talking about a network of courts, somewhere with rationalization to start. Although it's not my resort, but something that is, believe me, as minister of justice, I've received six or seven complaints, many of our pensioners who during the spring, autumn and summer months leave the cities where they live during the winter can't lift their meds because they're not certified in the health home where the insurance companies are. So this story, rights are being realized in Novi Sad, someone who lives in the White Church and then he should go from Vrsac, the White Church or from Kovin and Panchev to Novi Sad, and not in Belgrade that is much closer to him. As much as I'm an opponent of Belgrade, and I'm a great opponent of Belgrade, I'm also an opponent of new sedation. What does that mean? Because someone cannot exercise their right to health care, someone who is from Kovin cannot achieve it in Belgrade or Smedereva, he should go to Nosi Sad. I think it's an extremely bad solution. An extremely bad solution, if I think it's bad that someone should go along with this current Sokobanja solution for Belgrade instead of Nis. Some things should be turned to the citizen and to life. If there's a bad habit from the past, then we should change it in the future. As someone who worked at the university, I know that 99% of students who are Panchevan are studying in Belgrade, not in Novi Sad. Because it's closer to them. Because it's much easier for them to get to Belgrade. I repeat another 17 kilometers. Is there anything that has been recognized rationally during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia when Belgrade, Zemun and Panchevo were outside the banking system, we cannot recognize 80-85 years later today? The state should be a service of citizens, as a service of citizens to address their needs and where there is an economic possibility of achieving the role of citizens' services to indeed be. I really think this law is one step forward and one good move. Kovin is eight kilometers away from Smederov, so let's say 15, it's really not a dispute, but because someone has to go, I don't have the authority to suggest it, but as a rational man, I think that someone should go from Panchev to Novi Sad, and not to Belgrade, and that should change. Why not change? Because citizens usually come here. Then he will come to Belgrade to pay for a private doctor, because he is far away from going to the state hospital in Novi Sad. I just don't think that's an argument that says otherwise to these proposed legal solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27600	The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27601	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, I think that wherever there is a sensitive topic, the rights of language and the letters of national minorities, that is a sensitive question, you're starting to count miles. In fact, the exercise of human rights is never cheap. It costs, it's true, but I can't just substitute for rationality. When we talk about this case, we're actually talking about using language and letters in front of judicial authorities. We believe that the more the courts' seats are removed from the territory on which members of national minorities live, the less likely they will be to use their language and letter in the process. What we're looking for is not outside the Constitution, and I just can't help feeling very uncomfortable today when we talk, since I'm a member of the national minority, I can't believe that one question of the use and use of the right when it comes to members of Slovakia, I'm going to talk in one piece about the Alibunar, the right used by the Romanian national minority, to twist and tell us some political stories. This is something concrete and we don't think if we're looking for what national minorities belong to the Constitution and the law to look for something that's impossible, something that isn't rational. It's about human rights. So that ease that you convinced us in the part where there were talks about the law in principle -- of course it will be made possible in Belgrade, of course it will be made possible in Smederev, it simply didn't give us the conviction that it would be, because we know first that the court budgets are very thin. What the president of Belgrade's court, as well as what the president of the Smederjevo court will least be as a item, will be the item to ensure that the language and letter of national minorities can be used. What's the worst message for members of the national minority, when those courts get away from them in the middle where they don't live, is that they're actually not looking for it, because they're afraid that they won't realize it, or that it's going to make them very much longer off the process they're taking part in. That is the most important element of all our amendments that my colleague Biljana and I have proposed. It is one of the four amendments, and they are all about achieving the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights, which is the official use of the language and letters of national minorities. I'd just like to say a few words. In the light of what we have proposed, the amendment makes no difference, especially with the amendment of the Committee that proposed the judicial unit in Kovacica, is a judicial unit in Alibunar. The fact is that Vršac has its own court and that is the seat that is generally run as the cultural seat of Romania. But the Alibunar municipality has the largest number, practically the highest percentage of Romania's living and the court that was previously in Novi Sad, and the judicial unit has actually nurtured the largest number of people who speak, as far as judges and other court staff, Romanian language. So they're bilingual. What I would have liked to have heard from you, as you said when someone goes to judge outside of the city that they will be particularly rewarded, I would have been very pleased, and that would give me much more confidence that this will be so, if they said that the judge will take care of the evaluation and that which judge can use more languages. Not necessarily to be a member of the national minority, but to speak more languages and to be able to use languages of national minorities spoken in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27602	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27603	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is already a two-digit path that I'm going to repeat, and that's something that are our distinguished colleagues who are representatives of one of the largest national minorities in Serbia... Somehow that word of minority isn't so appropriate. Someone just said the word "nationality." If language is spoken, it may have been more correct to use that word at one time than the minority, but good. The word of the national community has been insulted by us. Therefore, just one of the representatives of minority parties stated in principle that the issue of trial, i.e. the conduct of proceedings in the language of the national minority, is not a matter governed by this law. There's a law on official use of language and letters. It is a law that is planned to be passed, since the applicable law has been well overcome. It is a law that we have included under the amendment SVM in the text of the National Strategy for Justice Reform and introduced it as a mandatory measure that must be achieved in accordance with the action plan of that strategy. I think it's really necessary to do that. The rights of national minorities to the official use of language and letters have been acquired rights that no one can touch. Unfortunately, unfortunately, our great regret, and since you talked about Vrsac's Basic Court, there was talk of the Vrsac Basic Court, that a good fit had been educated, I would transfer the information given to me by the acting President of the Basic Court in Vrsac, which we cannot praise, which is that even the judges and accompanying administrative staff who are Romanian national members are not qualified to conduct judicial proceedings in Romanian, because unfortunately, when studying positive legal cases at our universities, it is about the University of Novi Sad, professional terminology, legal terminology is not studied in minority language. This creates major problems in the application of that language during court proceedings. It's something that's one bad reality and present, independent of this, of that, of one last or future Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. It is precisely why we talked to the ministry at the level of representatives of the Judicial Academy, that it is necessary to organise courses of professional legal terminology for minority languages that are officially used in the Republic of Serbia. It has been said that something is sought by minorities in Serbia according to the Constitution and the law, if you think something is denied, and that belongs, I call on all those who think it is open, loud and clear, because it is therefore against constitutional and illegal action. But our big problem is exactly what I said. It's one thing you have on paper, what you have in reality. Our reality is that an extremely small number of persons are seeking to conduct the procedure in their native language, and when they are sought even when the judge and prosecutor are members of the same national community, they themselves, for a very simple reason, that they have been working in Serbian for many years, and they do not know it at a good level, at a satisfactory level of professional terminology, have a problem in leading the process. If it remains, as we have said, a judicial unit in Kovin with a new quality, the new nature of a judicial unit in which it will be treated equally in all matter, this means that the costs of the proceedings necessary for the conduct of proceedings in another language in official use will continue to remain in that division as costs. He'll go from one court to another, but he'll stay in the budget. And if that depends on the court's goodwill or judgment of the court's financial capacity by the president, I think it's inadmissible. Whatever town this is, it's inadmissible. Is it about Panchev, whether it's Smederev, whether it's Alibunar or Kovin? That example I gave and which was presented to me by the acting president of the Basic Court in Vrsac, the place where the most numerous Romanian national community is the most nominally numerous, by the number of people who live there. I think it's one example that needs to be fixed, but it's just an indicator. I wish that wasn't an indication of the general condition. If so in Vrsca where the nominal Romanian community is the most numerous so it can be in another smaller place. That's what as a state we have to do a lot more and better. Of course, every member of the national minority, wherever he lives in Serbia, has the right to use his own language and his letter in accordance with constitutional and legal solutions. We are in a position to have such solutions or to maintain them at the same level or to improve them, and to degrade them and lower them in no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27604	Replica, Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27605	Thank you. Otherwise, in the three minutes I had to talk in principle, I was just talking about a problem that has the power of justice in the administration regarding the use of the language of national minorities and the need to organise education. The education is occasionally organised by the regional secretariat for the regulations of the administration. She's not enough. It is normally organised, mostly in Hungarian, given that the most personnel have needs and needs, and in other languages it is less organised, it is not enough. I was speaking and I would add to what you said was very important at least by some regulation or any regulations of process and some of the essential regulations of material should be translated into these languages. Because I'm simply using two languages myself and I know how difficult it is, given that the systems aren't identical. So to take the dictionaries of Romanian and use the terminology of the judiciary, you just can't apply it. Some termology is different, some institutes are different. So we can't expect the judge to do that part of the job, no matter how fluently I knew my native language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27606	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27607	Dear President of the National Assembly, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I will try to convince you to accept this amendment for a number of reasons. The amendment refers to a judicial unit in Žabari, Braničevski County. The frogs are similar to the Frogs, they have 14 villages. The distance of some villages from Pogorec is 50 kilometers. The Democratic Party is not in power in Žabari. The abolition of the Zabari judicial unit, as it is given in the Bill, which is now well-functioning, in a well-equipped building, with the complete equipment needed for work, would not achieve savings in the budget, because for 15 employees who are now working in this judicial unit, only for tickets to Požarevec would be released monthly from the budget of 180,000 dinars per month. The local self-government has informed the president of the primary court, Pogorec, that it is ready to pay for the maintenance of the building. Since you stated in the reasons for the refusal of the amendment exactly that item – the cost of maintaining the building, the Zabari judicial unit, in which it works and works will be the department of the Criminal Court which remains as well as the cadastre. So the functioning of the judicial unit would not add to the budget where millions of savings would already be achieved in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Costs would also be avoided for citizens because citizens do not have well-organised public transport to Pogorec. Public transport to the Fireman works only for the transport of students and only at a time when it suits the students. The court unit is well-armed. The structure and number of cases justify the survival of this judicial unit, and the abolition would make it very difficult for citizens to exercise their right before the court. I am also interested, Mr. Minister, in the reasons for the definition of basic courts in Velika Gradište and Petrovac at Mlava, without being granted the right by locals in the municipality of Kučevo. I can only tell you one thing at the end. There's only one infringing court in Porevac. I hope that in a future network of misdemeanor courts, you will find places for Kučevo to receive the basic court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27608	National MPs Srdjan Spasojevic, professor Dr Petar Škundric, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić and Branislav Mitrovic submitted the 3rd amendment in the same text. The word is from the peoples of Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27609	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we from the URS and, at the request and proposal of citizens of Nova Varosha, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3rd point 49 and we propose that it is now read – the basic court in the Prepolje municipality of Nova Varoš and Prepolje, with a judicial unit in Novi Varosha. So, citizens of Nova Varoshi expect to remain as well as so far a judicial unit in Novi Varoshi and believe that a municipality of nearly 17,000 residents has valid reasons for having at least a judicial unit. What are those reasons? Starting with the traditional ones since 1932. Unfortunately, in 2009 until then, the municipal court did not become the primary court, and that is when the judicial unit began to exist. Four years after 2009, the law also proposes to abolish the judicial unit, which is why the citizens of Nova Varoshi oppose. Distance as one of the criteria, the distance to achieve justice is also going to the hands of this request. So the distance from Prepolje where citizens of Nova Varoshi should go for their justice in the next period is important from some of the farthest places. In the municipality of Nova Varoš, that distance is up to 60 kilometers away. Very bad weather, very difficult configuration. It's all in favor of respecting their proposal. Also, in 2009, the municipality of Nova Varoš allocated, defined about 300 square metres of office space and fully reconstructed the area together with the Republic of Serbia. So this reason goes in favor of this claim and request. But what scares citizens of Novi Varoshi and most small municipalities across Serbia, for all these reasons, is the fact that when a state institution leaves a municipality, there is a certain fear and fear for their future. In 2009, when the main court of Nova Varoš received a judicial unit, all five judges left Nova Varoš and went the way of Užica, Novi Pazar, Belgrade, Prepolje and some other major centres, along with them and some other people who were tied to the judiciary. That's one bad message. A lot has been said these days about this thesis, how many of our municipalities on the edge of our country, and first undeveloped municipalities face this problem. I will remind you that Nova Varosh belongs to the fourth category of the most underdeveloped municipalities, with over 50% of the unemployed in its municipality. I know, Mr. Minister, you know the problems of the New Varosh and better than all of us, since you're from New Varosha. However, I know of the high degree of your consistency and principle, and I think maybe that's exactly why you haven't suggested that Nova Varosh get his own, at least judicial unit. That's why I'm from the URS, and I'm sure I'm also representatives of other political parties, and I'm sure our colleagues from the DSS and the SNS will do the same, because I see that they have proposed this amendment with me. We want to encourage you. There's simply valid reason for Nova Varosh to get at least a judicial unit. They're not just contained in these criteria that you've adhered to. It is one, I would say, a long-term state strategic decision, which will respect all the specialities that the municipality of Nova Varoš has in the same way as you took into account the specificities of municipalities such as Bujanovac, I don't know Kovačica or any other. Your consistency and principle will not be defiled. We encourage you. There's a lot of reasons. It's a very important long-term, I'd say a state decision to have municipalities like the New Varoshi get at least a judicial unit. I sincerely hope you accept this encouragement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27610	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27611	I thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. In front of the DSS parliamentary club, I have submitted an amendment to keep the judicial unit in Novi Varoša, for the main court area in Prijepolje, and to keep the judicial unit in Chatitina, for the area of the General Court in Užica. Since counterpart Mitrovic spoke of Novi Varoša, and the minister knows it very well, I will not repeat it. I will support that amendment in any case, which is the same in the first half as the DSS amendment. As for the rationality of existence itself, we've been talking about this all day, these judicial units, for example. in Chattini and New Varosha. I can tell for Chatina that the building in which the court is located, there is the municipal administration and there are other institutions. The municipal administration, so local self-government pays a certain part of the cost, so there's no issue about maintaining the building itself. As far as the funds are concerned, I also have to tell you, as sure as you know, but the public does, if we don't have a transfer right now, but probably someone will be able to hear, that most of the contract is done in Chajetina itself, so in that judicial unit. In 2011 of 1,820, 1,200 were in Cajetina, and 620 combined Užice and Bajina Basta, 2012, 1,240 Cajetina, 585 Užice and Bajina Basta, 2013, so far, until the moment I collected this data 1,320 in Chejetina, 410 combined Užice and Bajina Basta. As you know, the tax on overalignment is ranging from 25,000 to 39,000 dinars per chapter. Of course, it all depends on the value of that immovableity. As for the real estates that are certified in the municipality of Chatin, since it covers Zlatibor as one big tourist resort, they are mostly all for these 39,000 dinar fees. Chuck, I can tell you a few years ago, an investor even certified a 171 contract for that highest tax. As far as rationality is concerned, that's what we're talking about. So the large funds are being poured right out of the Cheetah municipality of these taxis into the state budget. So you have to think about it a little bit. As for the other elements and other litigations, outsider procedures, etc., I ask you to reconsider. It's known what the situation is, as far as the field configuration is concerned. How these people from Semegnjev, from Labianica, from Stubla or Ljubiš will go to Užice, to settle their desert disputes, or to settle disputes on property-legal relations, whether someone's border has crossed. There's really a lot of that. Or how the people of Dragica, Negbin, or Shadows will go to Prepolje. How and in what way in winter. Whether there's a ride or not. You know better than anyone who lives there. So, when you spoke earlier at the beginning of the term of office, it would now be much better and how the situation, as far as the network of courts is concerned, would change. The citizens of Chattine and the New Varoshes didn't know that it would be better for them, they would be worse, of course for me, because that's where I live. I am really glad that Topola, Bogatic, Varavrin received the judicial unit after accepting these amendments, the Justice Committee. I really think that's what Chaetin and Nova Varosh deserve. You, I remember in the principle debate, were very keen to defend the abolition of these judicial units, including in Topolo and Bogatic, Barvarin and everywhere else, both in Chajetina and Nova Varosha, etc., but you eventually accepted it. Therefore, I see no reason why they would not accept amendments coming from some other local self-government and to remain judicial units, for example, in Chejetina and Nova Varosha. We of local self-government in the municipality of Chatin will accept that we fully bear the costs of maintaining the entire building, if necessary and if that is the only problem. In the last few years, schools have been shut down. So it's state policy to move people out of rural areas, because there aren't enough people. By evicting from the court, therefore, not only when it comes to schools, the education system, education, the health system, we are now abolishing this judicial authority entirely. I know they're going to stay here, in one part of that reception office, but certainly the existence of a judicial unit will be done at least once a week, certain affairs concerning these trials. I think it would be very important to do that. I don't think this is a disaster that has hit Serbia, and this is certainly not going to work out if it stays this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27612	Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27613	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will first look back at what is said, because that is one big disaster. I don't know where in Europe to pay you all the month because four times a month you have something to do. I don't know if much richer countries and much more rewarding and economically stronger states than Serbia have afforded themselves such a thing, and Serbia has afforded itself such a thing for many years and has come where it is. A few things have been said that I have to look back on because they are true and why they do not remain without a solution, and on the other hand, and how they motivate quality lawyers, I believe that there are those in the Zlatibor County, that they apply to work, that they apply to apply for exams for public records and enter a circle of 123 candidates that ended on Thursday last week, so on November 14th of this year they passed a public-record exam and met the basic conditions to be appointed public records. If it is stated that in 2011 in the area of the Municipality of Čajetin there were 1,200, 2012, 1,500, and by November 2013, 1,320 over, given that these certificates would continue to be carried out in the reception office in Chajetina itself, but that they were also an attractive figure for a possible candidate for a public notary, who would take a public-recorded exam from Cheeta and meet the conditions to be appointed as a public notary. Considering what I said was that amendments and additions to the Law on Out-of-Parking Procedure were prepared, that they were sent to the European Commission for expertise, that we were waiting for them to come and that they would then be in the National Assembly, in front of the MPs, which would achieve one of the main preconditions for training public notebooks for work. Then this information is important and important. What I can say as an example of some of the places that are listed here and mentioned in the debate. I'll give you information on the largest village in one of those two municipalities. I'm not going to name which municipalities, because they're about equal to the number of inhabitants, by the territory they're taking, by the number of settlements. The largest rural eight-year-old school in one of the two municipalities received three villages from only three pupils in September this year. What's a big problem is that in a long series of years back and at a time when there were municipal courts and now that there are judicial units, desert debates and desert proceedings are not being conducted until the end. We're here as a state, and that's just an example of how it works otherwise in Serbia, we're like a state completely dysfunctional. If someone wanted to buy some piece of land in the rural rural environment, then they realized that two or three generations back had not held a good desert debate, that there was no physical division of the legacy, and that the heirs were scattered around the world, on different continents, that you had no chance of bringing them together and that people were simply not resorting to it. What's important to say and that's why I thank you for what's been said here, if there's work to make minimum appointments and reflect hearings once a week, then it's more than clear. Once a week, and according to the president, the court will be organized by judging the days and the citizens, i.e. the citizens of Semegnjev, Jablanica, Ljubliš, Rosanja, Ravni, from other villages from the region, will be able to attend a hearing in a case in which one of the interested parties is and I don't see that they will feel anything, but on the one day when the judge from Užica comes he will have to work all day at work. What is said to be a really high number of overs, in the first place of purchase contracts, since when you compare Chatin from one side and Nova Varoš from the other, Châtina had opportunities for various reasons to speak up as a municipality unlike the New Varosha that was once much more developed than Chajetina, Châtina has recently had the opportunity to develop and the fact of this number of over the contract speaks up enough in favour of it. I'm always saying, if Chaetinac is the one who finished law school and met the conditions to pass the exam for a public notary and pass that exam, but if he doesn't apply for it, someone from Užica will find himself who has the same conditions, he'll report his residence in Chajetina, and he'll come, he'll open a notary office. It doesn't have to be from Užica, it can be from Belgrade and it's quite legitimate, but it is an invitation to every smaller municipality, especially tourist centres like Zlatibor, such as Soko Banja, such as Vrnjak spa, to motivate their lawyers to approach something like that. Unfortunately, on this case, we see how many municipalities in Serbia are, unfortunately, to our great pity, human beings are extremely weak. It often happens in some places that when local authorities are formed, you can't find an adequate person to function as mayor of the municipal administration or secretary of the municipality, where a law school is sought. Such people, unfortunately, are less and less in those environments. What's important and really to conclude with this deal of mys on these issues, I'm trying to be someone who's going to think a lot more with their heads, and with less heart in these things, the court won't stop at any place the people who started to leave. The chat you talked about belongs to a number of more developed municipalities today, and again from that and such a community of people are leaving, and again in Jablanica, which you mentioned earlier, is the largest number of bachelors in Serbia, although they have even the asphalt road of malte-not to all houses, but people go from there. It does not bypass Serbia, which has captured all the countries of this region, and some of them have passed through Western Europe long ago, and will someone in Jablanica be kept in Chejetina by the judicial unit to live there? Hardly. Hardly in situations where many institutions have left from some municipalities, as one of the previous municipalities has said, but have left among other things because the population of these municipalities has halved. New Varosh today has slightly less than 17,000 inhabitants, at least according to the list. In 1991, she had over 24 thousand inhabitants, then she had nearly 5,000 workers working in production, and today there are not even 140 of them. Each one of us who is rational, who is reasonable, who wants good to his country and his own end, is devoting their own spells and giving them the maximum effort to help people who are in charge of such local self-government, not to retain the court if that court has nothing to do, or the judicial unit, but to help them achieve the conditions for investing in these municipalities, to exploit their economic potentials, because once they re-function the economy, we will easily gather here and declare the establishment of a judicial unit in one of those places or the establishment of a basic court. That's what we're all supposed to be after. Sometimes some mistakes have been made in the past, some good moves have been made. It has been very difficult for these good moves to fall into the shadow of those mistakes and the bad things that have been done, but if there are going to be Judge days in such municipalities, and I say again as a member of the VSS I will ask for it from the entire VSS and in my domain in the jurisdiction of whoever brings the Rules of Procedure, we will introduce it as a mandatory category of course where there is a basis for it and where there is work. Chattina has this good side that she can't complain that she's going as a bad municipality, but again when you look at all 10 municipalities, or nine municipalities and Uzica City in the entire Zlatibor County, which is the only circle near the City of Belgrade and Southbačka County that records a positive balance in the balance of payments with abroad, Chajetina belongs to one of the poorest municipalities according to the living standards of people living in it, at the level of income even though the municipality earns well, so that I understand both my countrymen and the countrymen who are struggling here for their end to even when they themselves realize that eventually a judicial unit or a basic court in some place, although it requires to be established, will not have as much work as it represents being done here. Čatitina is a municipality in which, unlike Nova Varosha, if you look at pure statistics, by the number of cases received, by the inflow of the case, Chajetina has much less basis than Nova Varosha to have a judicial unit. Chuck, I'd say, almost three times the base. But I don't believe that a judicial unit in such a place will keep people from the urbanisation process that ends more or less in Serbia. That's why I think it's especially for places like this, and that's what I'm saying, and how important it is for the public-book system to function in them. One question has been asked, and I think this is very important – what will happen to the buildings where the judicial units are located today, in which several judicial units under this bill will not be? I am a supporter of an idea, and we will see that it is legally well formed, that in such places, since there is not so much interest for them in the candidates for public notaries, and it is the interest of the state that the public notary exists in Chejetina, and in Novi Varoša, and in Koserić, and in Baja Basta, and in Arile, in such municipalities the state will come out with the offer that one appointed as a public notary, for a certain period of time, whether it is five, six, seven, more or less years, we give that space to use without compensation. So we're going to do something that I think is extremely important and good, with the bad experiences of our neighbors who have introduced a public notebook system, bad experiences in smaller places. This would give one and how much support to those who are interested in making the public notebook system work. I'm sorry, if I took too much time, I think what I said is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27614	The word has the People's MP Bojana Bozanic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27615	Thank you for your response, Minister. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm just an ordinary citizen who can see, among other things, working in local self-government, what problems our citizens face. As for some of the facts you've brought out, I can agree with someone, and I don't. We may be perceiving things, someone's got a glass full, someone's half empty, everything depends on who's perceiving certain things. The only thing that worries me here is all this stuff, because I don't have as much time as you have to talk, but only two minutes. I would like to say that, as far as notaries or public notebooks are concerned, that they should start doing these jobs that these judicial units would do, that is, after the adoption of this law, the reception offices, it takes a few years of work experience for them to start working again. All those judges who were in court, or previously in court, and now that they've been hired, they've already gotten along, so they're doing something, I don't believe any of them are going to do it, and those who come young, they don't have work experience, they can't get a job anywhere, they can't volunteer, I can't even talk about interns, etc. As far as these edges are concerned, let me say, the population declines, Chattina is no different from the whole of Serbia, it doesn't matter what one of the largest budgets per capita in the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the developed municipalities, it doesn't matter, the citizens are leaving. In the past few years, few have returned, precisely because of such a situation and the inability to maintain themselves in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, etc., so they better return to their estates to do something. I wonder if that means that if everyone's moving out and going, then we have to shut it down completely. So if something goes away, then all institutions should go and shut down these local self-governments, take them into bankruptcy, bring them down to the level of local communities, live only Belgrade, Novi Sad and a few major cities. I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27616	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27617	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's an answer to the question I've been asked. Of course not. If you want, I'll give you an example that's completely personal. Since 1987, there's been no school in my village in Zlatibor. Unfortunately, this is not a lonely example, and in a neighboring village where there is a school, no one from that village has enrolled first grade this year. I know that in Zlatibor County that can still rise to have more people in the country than, say, Borski or Zajecar County, where you can spend a day or a half or two days walking in the countryside and not meet a single man. Let's not just talk about, say, southeastern Serbia or other parts. I just don't understand what logic it is, if we take and open that school that hasn't worked since 1987, so 26 years, are we gonna keep someone here? That's what our biggest problem is. Do we leave school and pay the teacher to go into an empty classroom every day, we'll keep someone here to live? I don't think so. We can open college there, nothing's gonna change again. These are things that I don't like either you or anyone reasonable who walks this country, but these are things that are not one, not three years, but unfortunately, we've started to measure this for decades, reality in Serbia, unfortunately for us. Are we going to leave the building where the municipal court used to be where the judges come in every day of work, and we're going to have work to do one week at a time, change something? Even if we had a fabulous fortune, I don't think so. What we are now doing through this law in Serbia, so one real rationalisation of the system, is something that, for example, has been implemented in one Germany. A much richer, much more economically powerful than Serbia has been implemented a reform in which every place with 15 thousand inhabitants and less and a certain number of cases is a place where every form of court has been abolished, and they have had such a judicial arrangement in which there could have been a court in which only one judge works. This is currently being conducted in Austria. I don't want to count all the countries. Much economically and in any other respect more stable and developed countries than our own. It's just that it's a problem. People are leaving. In those villages, women won't come to live. Our women would be most fortunate in statistics if they could have half a child, not one. Now we come into a situation to face this harsh reality through the functioning of the system on this case. Is this your fault? Is it my fault? Was it our fault who was sitting here? It's not. We need to see that where it's rational that something exists to strengthen it, to help it exist in full capacity. Don't let the people fool us with a story, if we run out of court, we won't have anyone left. Anyone who says that is very well aware that it is not true. This bill provides for basic courts to be established and to change the nature of the judicial unit and to be a court in places where at this point... That's why there's a reason. If we didn't do it today, all the indicators say that in five years, in many of those places where we can preserve a judicial unit and a court would have nothing. So let's save what can be saved, make one rational organisation of the judicial system in Serbia. It carries a lot of difficulties, a lot of obstacles, but I think it's worth working on. When we talked about candidates for public notebooks, the law prescribed quite serious criteria. I am convinced that there are people who, by meeting these criteria, will show interest in coming to these places. I say again, why would it be difficult tomorrow for a candidate from Belgrade who passed a public notary exam, who has his own cottage or house in Zlatibor, to go upstairs to report his residence and be appointed a public notary there? That's definitely gonna happen after this data was delivered here. Only when it comes to overtures, nothing else that he doesn't deal with, can he live a great life of it. If someone from Chajetina, from Uzic, doesn't do it, they'll do someone from Belgrade and they'll go up. That's why it's very important for the candidates to be aware of that in all environments. I guess it's better to work in the middle where everyone knows me than where no one knows me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27618	The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27619	I thank the President and the Honorable Minister. As a citizen, I certainly expect the state to stand behind me in some cases as a citizen, that is, behind all its citizens and help. We can't let the situation go the way it happens, that people leave. I would disagree that he will not give a result if we try to open a school, or kindergarten in some environment, of course if there are children or young couples. I'm proud of what the Cheetah municipality is doing to keep young people in the country. We have success, and we have managed not to stop, but certainly to slow down the departure of these young people from the village. The court unit won't keep them, you said it well, but I expect that in some future period we'll see each other again and maybe assess the situation, whether it'll be better or worse. I just think we should look at the picture all together, not individually. You may have a little, if I may say so, checked out that a court unit would be left by someone in a certain place, etc. I don't think that's gonna be the case, but the whole picture and you as a representative, part of the government, part of the government, part of the government, is in power, knife and cake, you should try to do something with your colleagues. We certainly can't do it as an opposition. We can only suggest, and it's yours to listen or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27620	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27621	Mr. Minister, I will always support rationality, as you said, I will never support someone in a state body not earning their job. That's my personal attitude and the attitude of my party. However, when it comes to state strategic interests, the state must find a model and sometimes deviate from that harsh rationality. You said there are three students in a village in Zlatar. Yes, there won't be one next year, but if we continue this way with Nova Varosha, or some place in Homolj or Borska Municipality, Borsko County, we won't have a new Varosha student, so tomorrow someone will come to mind that, in addition to abolishing the judicial unit, they will cancel the inspection service, because they will say – there is no need for inspectors from the Management District of the Zlatibor Seat in Novi Varosha because they don't have enough work. The inspectors from Uzic will be coming. Then someone will think to cancel the school, and they will say it is irrational, and then someone will say, "No need in Novi Varosha or EPS headquarters." Why, when he's in Uzica. Just like we were transferred from Uzice to the King's headquarters. Again for reasons of rationality. That's where we come up with that sad, cruel truth, that the state has to stop at some point and say what the state's strategic interest is? The state of Serbia has made serious mistakes in the past decades, even in the last century in favour of its damage, and today we are paying for all these mistakes. We know that not only will one judicial unit in Novi Varosha retain some people, but if educated people, intellectuals, who worked in courts, who work tomorrow in inspection services, who work in some state institutions, leave Nova Varosha, so rightly you say - there is no one to run that Nova Varosh, there is no place to go back young people, and that way we'll sneak through to Belgrade. (President: Time. Our border territory will remain empty. Now, that's where we come into the country's strategic interest. Perhaps you are not, let me say, even this law is so eclectic that it deals with these strategic interests, but individually, as dice, we come to the harsh truth that we are retreating to Belgrade from our borders. And that's a cruel truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27622	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27623	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for this very law determines this difficult reality that he has no chance of correcting. You have something that's also a cruel reality. There is neither the right nor the need for law without legal entities, and the subjects of law are natural and legal persons, people and bodies and organisations, institutions, companies. If that's not there, there's no need for any legal regulation of anything. Any kind. These little places came into trouble the moment they were put out of maternity homes. It was the first alarm for all the people who lived in those places. It was the first bell on the alert of a state that was at that time much more organized, much more economically capable, much more efficient. The state was not to react at that time. What position are we in now? Now we're in a position to stand in front of that sad picture and say -- there's sad, there's a place she could be soon, let's stop there. Because when you look at the age structure of the population, you again regrettably realize that people of 50-60 who make up a large part of that population, unfortunately are no longer productively capable and cannot give birth to children. If the way out is to bring people back to live here, let's see how economically we attract them. I think we'll all agree on that, that's the key thing. The moment the economy once again strengthens to the point where the entrepreneur, the businessman, the employee, does not pay to go to the hearing only once a week, but the number of hearings has been increased, so it takes instead of once, three times a week to maintain, then we can think about establishing a judicial unit or court. In this situation it's really hard, especially where realistically, rationally speaking, there's no basis. Of course it's very important to define what strategic state interest is. I am one of those who advocated, and some of the former coalition partners know well that the state of Serbia should pass one act that has not yet been adopted under the Constitution, and it is a strategic plan for the development of the Republic of Serbia for a period of 10 to 20 years. What the entire chain, a series of previous governments of the Republic of Serbia, has been dealing with is the ceasefire, the resolution of current problems, and rarely when or almost never making something that is a visionary investment in the future. By dealing with all these current problems, daily whether they are legal, economic, political, let us completely forget what people need to live on in the future and come into this situation to realize that we are getting smaller and smaller. The question is, what is our priority state interest at this point? It's a priority state interest to survive biologically. When we survive biologically, we will look forward to a more different and easier solution to some problems in the future. Otherwise, in the event of the establishment of the judicial units for the municipalities we talked about, I'm afraid that for the next few years, a large part of their activities will be in the desert debates, making up the legacy and life support contracts, and that will take over public notebooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27624	The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27625	Mr. President, I suggest that, however, in terms of Articles 27 and 106, you draw attention to all speakers in a certain way, given that the Committee left today at 9:00 a.m. Now it's nearly 10:00, let's try to stick to the strict agenda and the strict amendment. If we're discussing it, there's a possibility of decry and a wide story. Given that there are a lot of people here who expect to still talk about their amendments, unless we interrupt the debate, to at least concentrate on the amendment itself, that if that's all we can talk about, and to leave the need for a wider explanation possibly for tomorrow or for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27626	You read my mind, Mr. Mikovic. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27627	I'll just take a minute and I won't answer again. Our thoughts also match and I join, we should cut short. I agree, Mr. Minister, I would only repeat it once more - despite the great economic crisis despite everything that has gripped us and every day tightens us, yet Serbia's state interest must still be first. That's one long story. If we had a clearly defined interest in the last 100 years, we wouldn't have come up with the situation we're in today. All I'm asking is that you take care of it. One quick question, and I'd like you to give me a quick answer. As far as public notebooks are concerned, do you think that their services, given all those experiences in the environment, will be available to users of their services and will it be more expensive than if there were a judicial unit in that place? Well, just for a little while, if you can answer that. I know the Ministry is prescribing tariffs. (Nikola Selakovic, from the post: Exactly. There's no need. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27628	The People's MP, Lasslo Varg, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mirna Kosanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Mirna Kosanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27629	The Honored Chairman, honourable ministers, representatives of the ministry, respected fellow Members, the amendment was submitted to Article 3. The proposal for a law on the seats and areas of the courts, by proposing that point 58 be changed so that the Court of Justice in Stara Pazova remains for the territory of the Municipality of Stara Pazov, while adding point 58a, which is to say that the Court of First Instance in Indjia is for the territory of the Indji municipality. We also suggested that point 63 be changed by adding a new point of 63a to Užica for the territory of the municipality of Čajetin and for the town of Užice, after the membership, i.e. point 63a, which is the basic court in Baja Basta for the territory of Bajina Basta municipality. With this amendment, I have proposed the establishment of basic courts in Indjia and Baja's Garden. In the proposal for a law for India, the basic court is in Stari Paza with a judicial unit in Indjia, and for Baja Basta, the basic court is in Užica with a judicial unit in Baja Basta. The reasons for the founding of the basic court in India are next. In 2009, and before the reforms were carried out, the Indjia Municipal Court had a total of 3,060 cases, in litigation 1.558 cases, in the 924 vanpard, in the executive 1,177, as well as 7,276 executive cases. The inflow of the case was increased between 2010 and 2013. The Indjia judicial unit has seven judges and 30 employees. Otherwise, the Indjia Municipal Court was founded in 1956. The building was built in 1965 and has a total area of 1,250 meters and two floors in the center of Indjija. The municipality of Indjija has a territory of 384km, has 49,000 inhabitants of different nationalities that are situated in 11 settlements. There are several associations of persons with disabilities and special needs. The inhabitants of the 10 settlements would have to use two transports to Stara Paz, i.e. to sit in India, which you will surely agree, very irrationally and for them it is a very difficult approach to justice. As for the establishment of the Base Court in Baja Basta, it is a fact that it is the basic criteria and the 10-year average of the required number of judges in Baja Basta, which exceeds certainly the number of seven judges. According to the 2008 cases, before the reform, there were around 2,500, and the same trend of the case was maintained in 2010 to 2013, although the automatic data introduction database in Užica could not be given the exact information, since this base of Užice did not lead. When it comes to additional criteria, Bajina Basta has a surface area of 673 kilometers, has 36 settlements, is a border municipality with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the length of the border is over 100km. It has 30,000 inhabitants. He owns an excellent functional court building. It is very important to say that the General Court in Uzica, along with the second Court in Belgrade, is the courts with the highest average inflow. Unfortunately, such a situation has affected the up-to-dateness of a large number of cases in the Main Court in Užica, which is why Bajina Basta suffers, or the citizens of Bajina Basta suffer. The data provided by the municipality court in Uzic is considered to be to be verified, and they are related to the total number, i.e. the inflow of the case in Baja Basta. Since the bill provides for the establishment of basic courts in Aleksinac, Brus, Gradište, Dimitrovgrad, Književec, Kursumlia, Leban, Surdulica, Sjenici and Priboj, we believe that these solutions are positive. We believe that the citizens of these places are certainly satisfied with this proposal, but I would like to point out that Baji's garden has a larger inflow of objects compared to them. In a material sense, if a basic court was established in Baja Basta, the court in Užica would be relieved, i.e. there would be less costs for the number of judges who would be in Baja Basta. Therefore, we ask the Minister of Justice to verify the accuracy of the data, in particular the data on the inflow of the case, and to respect these reasons which we consider to have been established in order to establish the Court of Justice in India and the Court of Justice in Baja Basta as basic courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27630	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I should support half the amendments, since I come from India. I agree that Indjia should have a basic court. However, when I remember that the proponent, during the former regime's rule, accepted that Indjia had no court, it was not the authority that abolished the court in India, but the previous one. So, the Indjia is from Old Paz's eight kilometers. The basic court is in Old Paz, and a judicial unit in India, as far as I know, will have more work to do than the basic court in Pazova, because there is more space and because many of the cases will be solved in India instead of in Old Paz. So far, we've had no court or judicial unit involved in guilt. I agree it's a shame to travel eight kilometers, but during the former regime to Sremska Mitrovica we traveled 50. Now it depends on what part of the Indjia municipality you're going from, if you're going from Old Slancamen, you could go 70 kilometers to court. Such a proposal was supported among other things by this party, which now proposes with the right to have Indjia court. However, between what we've had so far and the judicial unit that judges both guilt and litigation, therefore, it has all the role played by the basic court in Old Pazova, I've agreed that Indjia has a judicial unit, since it would be a lot if there were two basic courts just eight kilometers away. So it would only be in Belgrade and it would happen in Srem. In all of Srem, seven municipalities, almost one whole region had only one basic court in Sremska Mitrovica, and now has four courts, one judicial unit and two smaller municipalities remain with the court day, so they are not covered by judicial units. Compared to what we had, we've now drawn a premium as a region. So, if I could vote for half the amendment, of course I'd vote for Indjia to get the court. However, between these two proposals that we had from the Justice Department, no one responded, and in the first proposal, even the Indjia had no judicial unit, so after a reaction from certain lawyers, judges, to my application and to my request, the Ministry more than justifiably determined that the Indjia had a judicial unit, that the basic court would be in Old Pazova, so called, that the prosecution would be the Chief Prosecutor's Office of Stara Paz, with the fact that if the premises were better provided by Indjia, then the prosecution would be placed. Given that there are only eight kilometers, given the practice of traveling up to 70 kilometers, I think the Indjia citizens will still fall less difficult to travel eight to 20 or 25 kilometers from their journey of 50 to 70 and 75 kilometers. That's it. So, if I could vote for Indjia to get court, for half the amendment, I would vote. Given that these would be significantly increased costs, etc., I can't accept this second part of the amendment because in Baji's Garden I don't really understand much, I don't know how justified it is that Baja's Garden get the basic court. So, I'll support that Indjia has a basic court, but I'm a satisfied judicial unit, since so far we haven't had anything and we've travelled to Sremska Mitrovica for 70 kilometers, so it's gonna be less difficult for us to travel eight kilometers. If I did something wrong, there's a minister to correct me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27632	National MP Siniša Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Slobodan Jeremic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27633	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the court's unit to enrol in the basic court of Uzic to enroll in Chatin. We've heard a lot about Chattina, but we haven't heard about the specificities and contradictions that happen in Chattini. The chat area is one of the bigger ones, not to mention the largest, municipalities – 647 square kilometers. According to the number of inhabitants, there are some 16,000 smaller municipalities. However, in the Municipality of Čatetina, in Zlatibor is the most accurate, during the year, between 15,000 and 30,000 people. These are the people who have their problems there. When we add that to the population, we get about 40,000, what's an average city that's supposed to have its own judicial unit. What's another specificity here? The Čajetina municipality has 1,650,000 in its budget with rebalancing for 2013. They're going to repeat once more 1,650,000 dinars. It's an extremely large budget for so many people. I'm just going to give you a parallel value. For example, the Municipality of Merošin, which is similar to Chatini, has its budget of 330,000,000 for 2013. It's already the first contradiction. It's very important where big money is, where it's needed, these processes happen: transfer of property rights, sales, purchases and everything else, they need to have a judicial unit. The Tchaitina municipality is one more thing, which I'm going to bring out here, very characteristic. Zlatibor and Chajetina, which make up about half of the population, the second half are rural environments, is connected to the Užica highway and has its own turn of driving and it is possible to go down to these processes. However, border villages don't have a van, they don't have any directions, they don't have any plans when the van comes or goes and whether it comes and goes, when it will come and when it will come. On the contrary, Čatetina Municipality plans large investments such as gondola, such as the Golden City. I'm just wondering how these poor village people are gonna get to the primary court unit. They have nothing to come by. It is also necessary to cross 35 kilometers now, of which it must be 20 kilometers on foot or on horseback, especially in wintertime, and you know that Čatetina Municipality is mostly above a thousand meters of settlement. Finally, if Varvarin, Čupria, Bogastić and Kovačica are, on a proposal from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr. Minister, if you accept them, it would be regular for you to accept the bar and Chajetina, Guch or Nova Varoš. This part of Serbia's space has been neglected, we must tell you, neglected from all sides. I think we're experiencing that you're neglecting it, too. You don't understand or you don't want to realize that it's a real need. I mean, to think again, especially about Chaetin, for the judicial unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27634	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir J. Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Stepic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Tanja Radovanovic and Milan Kovacevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27635	As we had just had a case with Barvarin where MP Aligrudic submitted an amendment which, in its content, was identical to the part of the amendment submitted by the Committee, which I have accepted, and so here I declare to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27636	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinović, Sadna Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27637	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the few who stayed for ten hours to listen, discuss this very important law, or the first set of laws we're discussing today, must respect the fact that we've been here today since nine o'clock, that the Justice Committee started at nine o'clock and that it's really not correct to discuss it this long. That the concentration has dropped and that many of the applicants of the amendments that did it today are not in the O.R. and therefore I think it was much more correct to interrupt this debate at some normal time of night. But since you didn't do it and there's no transmission of course, and it's been gone for as many hours as we've had the chance to hear it, I think that's enough arguments to support what I'm saying right now. This amendment, which we are discussing today and now, is one in a series of amendments that we have tabled on this bill, and it concerns the return of courts to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. We think that in particular, this is about returning the basic court to Kosovo Mitrovica with judicial units in Gorazdevec, Gracanica, Ranilug and Strpec. It is clear that with this whole bill that you have proposed, in fact, from the single system of Serbia, you set out the judicial system in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and thus directly undermine the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, you continue, not you, but as a representative of the government to destroy and abolish all the institutions of the Republic of Serbia that exist in Kosovo and Metohija. It was not enough that the government disbanded parliaments in northern Kosovo, which replaced democratically elected mayors, and now we need to abolish the courts, abolish the prosecutions, tomorrow we are likely to abolish hospitals, abolish schools, institutions of culture and everything that belongs to the Republic of Serbia. I think all this is done, and you know it very well that one agreement that does not exist in legal traffic at all, which has not been published at all, in order to adapt and subdue the entire legal system of the Republic of Serbia, to that agreement which is not existing, because it has not been published. To make things worse, he is subject to a constitutionality assessment before the Serbian Constitutional Court. To submit to him all applicable laws and in the extreme case of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course I know, that's what you said in the principle debate, that you don't like to talk about the Brussels Agreement, but this law is, among other things, passed because you adopted the Brussels Agreement. Point 10 of the Brussels Agreement says courts are integrated into a judicial system operating under Kosovo's legal system. So it is understood that these courts will be in the jurisdiction of the so-called so-called. false countries of Kosovo, so-called The state of Hashim Thaci, and you are consciously working on it. If you would just take a moment to look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and if you would look at this Article 142 for just a moment then you would see that the judicial authority is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that all of this you are doing with the abolition of courts and prosecutors in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija are doing contrary to the Constitution and you are doing it in a highly illegal manner. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-18-0.u27638	Mrs. Radovic, you know I always respond to your suggestions and remarks. Here, I am now finishing the session of the National Assembly. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
