ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28050	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today is the day to request a notice, so I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28051	Mr. Chairman, the current TV series "Ravna Gora" has raised some new issues and raised some old issues. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS believe that this series will also calm national passions in Serbia and contribute to the national reconciliation and healing of our wounds from the past. I have a question for the Serbian Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, and yet it concerns national reconciliation, since the Karadjordjevics have been returned to Oplenac, as we have returned the royal family to the White Court and have passed the Law on the Equality of Rights and Honors of members of the Partisan and Equality Movement. One of the officers, who may have had the most brilliant biography in our history, Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic, who was born in the centre of Serbia, in Ivanjica on April 27th 1893, was shot after a mounted political process in Belgrade on July 17th 1946, and is still unaware of his grave place. He was Army General and Chief of Staff of the Yugoslav Army's Supreme Command in the country, Army Minister, Air Force and Navy of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Mihajlovic is one of the most decorated Serbian officers. He was decorated by French General Charles de Gaulle with a war cross. He was posthumously decorated by US President Harry Truman in 1948 by the Legion for his first-degree merits for organising and leading important resistance operations against the hostiles of occupied Yugoslavia, in saving US pilots shot down against Yugoslavia and contributing to the Allied fight and helping to the final victory over fascism. As a pitomatist of the Academy in September 1912, he was sent to the First Balkan War, from which he came out with a silver medal for courage. He stood out in the Kumanov battle. After the Second Balkan War, he won a gold medal for courage. As a supporter, he participates in the Cerska and Kolubar battle. He retreated with the Serbian army and the government through Montenegro and Albania and stayed at Corfu, participated in a breakthrough of the Thessaloniki Front and was badly wounded on September 11th 1916. Although the medical board proposed that General Mihajlovic not return to the fighting machine, he refused, returned to the fighting machine and participated in the Thessaloniki front breach. That's why he got the Order of the White Eagle with the Second Order swords in 1918. The only one in the division received the English military cross by order of the commander of the division. It was decorated in 1937 by the White Eagle Order. After World War I, he participated in the asphyxiation of the Albanian rebellion in Kosovo and Metohija in 1918 and 1919, while in the barracks "King Petar First" in Skopje was named the best officer in the regiment. What interests the SPO and the DHSS, since we are absolutely aware of the fact that if some of our neighbours, for example, had an officer with such brilliant biography and such an anti-fascist movement, I think we would give much more importance to this movement and to the calming of national passions, and we are interested, since we have passed the Law on Equality of Rights and Honors of members of the Partizan and Equality Movement and that, long ago, even in Slovenia, even receive pensions and enjoy other privileges and honours, when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia change the disputed regulation and allow the survivors, even with so much delay, to get what they are allowed by law? Secondly, what will the government do to finally find the grave of General Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic, one of Serbia's greatest heroes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28052	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28053	Thank you, Vice President. I can see that the advanceds weren't very interested in the past, so when they asked questions they weren't very quiet, but now we're going to see if they're interested in the future. So this is about our kids. The Belgrade initiative advocates the introduction of video surveillance in all schools in Vozdovac and Belgrade and around schools, especially schoolyards, because the security situation in Belgrade is indeed at a catastrophic level. If you're listening to the media in the morning, you'll see that the permanent section has become an emergency report, and an ambulance spokesman has become a media star in the ranks of those who participate in various reality shows. Her emergency reports every morning were as from the wars in 1992, 1993 and 1994 – killed, stabbed, beaten, beaten, and so on. So, the security situation, not only in Belgrade, but also in other cities, is catastrophic, especially in schools and around schools. Not to mention the civil initiative in Lazarevec, the citizens who organized that when police don't arrest dealers, they publish their pictures on the media and on Facebook. And it's some kind of privacy violation. What's this about? This initiative, a proposal and a plan to cover all schools in Belgrade with video surveillance in order to prevent it from working, to get dealers away from the schoolyards, so as not to have cheerleading fights in the schoolyards, to see who destroys property in school and around school, the Commissioner for Information and Protection of Personality Data, Mr Sabic, reminded that he had already sent the Government a proposal to amend the Personal Data Protection Act, at least when it comes to video surveillance. You all know that cameras exist in banks, on machines that raise money, in parking lots, around public and private buildings, and Mr. Sabic reminds that this area should be governed by law, normally. Many schools have started to introduce video surveillance, but all this is happening on an initiative or parent or director, money is being raised, parents are giving money, and the number of video cameras is spreading. Apart from those put on traffic and regulated by the Traffic Safety Act, these others are not even against the law, because there are no laws, but they are not in accordance with the law, because they are not there either. So, I ask the Government, Prime Minister Dacic, when will the amendment of the Personal Data Act come here in the Assembly, in order to regulate this area in a European way? This certainly can't be the reason that, if we get to the opportunity, we don't advocate and realize that plan to cover all the schools in the interior of the building and around the building with professional video surveillance, because the safety of our children is absolutely in the first place, not just video surveillance that acts preventively and allows often to be discovered by the perpetrator. I'll remind you that, a while ago, the killer or the liquidator who killed the man in the city center was identified by cameras from some bank. So, it really needs to be done, as Shabic suggests, by law, but we cannot do it from the opposition, but from you from the government. So, I ask the Government – when will this law arrive in the Assembly, because Mr. Sabic, two years ago, proposed to amend the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, referred it to the Government? It's a very serious thing that requires an emergency response because we see that even the highest state authorities are dealing with violence these days, when I say dealing, I mean talking. I mean, first of all, the meetings they had about so-called cheerleading groups... (Chairman: Time, sir. )......................................................................................................... But we can see that nothing happened. So, when will the law that Shabic proposed two years ago come to the Assembly? That's my particular question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28054	The word is made by the People's MP Slavica Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28055	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was marked on November 16th as the World Day of Remembrance of victims of car accidents. The 20th of November is marked as World Child Day. The Republic of Serbia has accepted the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of the Child. The day is marked with the aim of drawing public attention to all the obligations society has towards children and the problems children face. Children are victims of car accidents for lack of traffic safety. More than a quarter of the car accidents in which children are injured occur between 3:00 and 2:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. when children return from school. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia marked Children's Day on Vozdovac's Action to promote the safety of children in traffic, sharing fluorescent bracelets for children passersby. But that's not enough, because real results can be expected by raising awareness of the importance of traffic safety and prevention. We know that the Traffic Safety Agency has done research on the victims of children in car accidents in the municipalities of the Republic of Serbia. The survey covered the period 2009 to 2011. All car accidents with victims were analysed, involving children up to 14 years of age. The survey covered car accidents involving child travelers, children pedestrians, children cyclists, and even children drivers. On the basis of the research, municipalities with high risk were selected, which are included in the plan for the implementation of the "Warning Now" campaign, implemented by the Transport Safety Agency, aimed at lower-class students. Then, the campaign, such as the cartoon "Careful", "Summer Months", "Tain the Belt", various videos. I refer the issue to the Transport Safety Agency, Serbia's MUP, the Ministry of Transport -- what are the results of the campaign? Is the loss of children in decline and what preventive measures are foreseen in the next period, in order to ensure the safety of children in traffic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28056	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28057	Thank you. One of the most significant problems in Serbia, apart from the great poverty, except for the fact that daily large numbers of people lose their jobs, except for the fact that many businesses are being closed daily, somewhere small and medium-sized enterprises, is certainly the birthmark. Neither this government nor the previous government has done anything or almost nothing to solve such a problem. In considering this session of parliament, we have a bill to allow children and families to be reviewed with an untrusted health book. But I have to ask the question to the prime minister of this country, the health ministers and the Minister of Agriculture - why is it that this country is allowed to discriminate against families that have registered agricultural holdings? If we say that agriculture is the priority of this country, if we say that there is a need for greater birth, why only women who are engaged in agriculture and who pay taxes and contributions neatly and all the social and health insurance contributions, do they not have the right to have maternity benefits? Is that discrimination against women who deal with agriculture, compared to other women? We believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should urgently adopt a regulation that will allow these women, too, to benefit from maternity leave. I would like to refer the second question to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. For a month now, a list of assets has been conducted in Negotina registered agricultural holdings, for reasons that some agricultural holdings have not paid taxes and contributions in orderly. If it is known that the state has allowed the write-off of debt to many economic operators, I am not asking to write off debts to registered agricultural holdings, because I know that this is not possible, but - is it impossible to reprogram? Are agricultural producers responsible for the fact that their subsidies were delayed both this year? Are they responsible for not paying for sunflower and wheat in Negota, and why such an attack is currently being carried out, meaning, on registered agricultural holdings in Negotin? I can't say and I don't know if it's the same in other parts of Serbia, and that's why I ask the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture -- is it possible to reprogramme instead of the list of assets registered to agricultural holdings in the area of the Municipality of Negotin? The third question is asked by the Minister for Regional Development and Local Self-Government and I ask that the City Assembly of Zaječar be examined. Three and a half months ago, this government of SNS and SPS was formed there. From then on, 22 or 24 sessions of the City Hall were held. All sessions are scheduled in a way to schedule at seven o'clock or eight o'clock tomorrow morning, individual sessions have 30 agenda points and over 400 pages of material. This was obviously not enough for the City of Zaječar City Assembly president in the past two weeks, so on Tuesday and Thursday of the previous week and yesterday, meetings of the City of Zaječar Assembly are held in a way that is scheduled at 12:00 a.m., or one o'clock a.m., the City Assembly is scheduled for four hours in the afternoon. The council's getting a piece of the material. A session with more than 10 agenda points was held yesterday. Among other things, one of the points is budget rebalance. Is someone controlling how the City Assembly of the City of Zaječar works and asking the Ministry to control the work of the City Assembly and to determine whether it is in accordance with the law to make three decisions regarding the liquidation of the Tourist Organisation of the City of Zaječar, the Sports Centre of the City of Zaječar and the Centre for Culture? Is it in accordance with the law, in Zajecar, that the activity of the Public-Communal Enterprise "Kingljevica" is transferred to the public housing company and that the company "Kingljevica" is deliberately being taken into bankruptcy? Does the Ministry think that's the way they're gonna... (President: Time, Mrs. Gerov. )......................................................................................................... to settle the debts of 100 million, how much is the city of Zaječar obliged to "Kraljevici" and is this normal business in the City of Zajecar?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28058	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28059	Dear Vice President, the respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, at the beginning of the questions I want to ask on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I must address you, Mr. Vice President, and tell you that I am the same question I am going to ask today, I asked on November 5th, and I was not respected as a national MP. So, my rights are not respected and I didn't get an answer and I would ask you to intervene. Even more so, I would suggest that the Secretariat of the Assembly keep records of these mails, I think in the Assembly that all MPs who have not received the answer are respected and received an answer. So, all the questions that we ask are not about us personally, some group of people were interested and initiated the question through MPs' clubs and MPs. So, I want to ask the question again with the hope that the Ministry of Education will answer my question as soon as possible. What's this about? It's practically about the interest of pride in the dignity of graduate students who, after a few years, can't get diplomas from a graduate college that they've graduated from. Let's say, yesterday I got the information, I want the ministry to check it out or deny me or misinformed me, one college wants a few thousand dinars in advance to go out for a graduation exam. When you pass a graduation exam, then you have to give some money again to get something allegedly over the line, but that doesn't mean you get a year, two or three. I think it would be really normal and acceptable for those diplomas to be shared once a year at the university's day at that formal session, as we say, working at the Technical Faculty in Chačka. So, I don't understand if so many young people with high grades, with colleges, can't get a job, because there's a crisis in the world and with us, so at least they can be respected to get that "patch of paper", no, but it's a belief, that they've graduated from that college, that they've invested their knowledge, their effort and their energy and have the right to be proud of them and their families. So I ask the Ministry of Education what does he think he's doing about this problem? Does the ministry, given the autonomy of universities and colleges, have any authority at all? Can a regulation be made? Is this about the Law of Higher Education? Then we MPs would probably have to take some steps if both the other colleagues and the MP clubs agreed. I hope to get an answer to this question as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28060	The word is made by MP Nikola Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28061	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Health and Minister of Energy and Ecology. Namely, the very current darkness of nickel exploitation in the municipality of Trstenik near the village of Ruđevštica in Vrnjačka Banja has aroused citizens of Trstenik and surrounding municipalities and this 17th month, the company "Serbian Nikl" has been granted a permit that has not been restored, is now restored for the start of some research works on the territory of Tristenik Municipality, although in the 1960s or 1970s a detailed survey of geological research has been carried out and found to mean about 1%, very small. Why are the citizens so excited? Before I say that I don't think this is a political issue, because at a session of the Triestenik Municipality Assembly, a decision was unanimously taken not to allow exploitation under the applicable law. So, both the URS and New Serbia and the SNS voted as positions and the SPS, and the opposition SPO and DS. Why are the citizens in fear? Well, justifiably, there's no clean technology to exploit nickel. So, this exploitation, we have an example of the Cavadars, where simple pollution is both in the air and in the country and in the water, and this would be polluted on the territory of the municipality of Trstenik, which has Veluca mineral water, which is the highest percentage of magnesium in Europe, certainly and where Professor Tomislav Jovanovic, the current minister, worked his works and concluded that it was one of the best quality water. I can tell you that this dirty technology according to the data, ore is extracted and exploited by concentrated sulphuric acid entering the earth and polluting the waterway. The question is why does Trstenik who has Veruce, why does Vranjačka spa that has water Vranjci, why does the Arangelovac who also has water Knjaz Milos, why are these locations where they need to look for nickel and make a dirty technology when water is something of strategic importance and which can simply be sold at any moment and get a big profit from our and this other municipality? What's important is that on the territory of where the nickel ore is exploited, it's 40 kilometers in pollution, there's a lot of dust, and now imagine that dust that's been acidating dust from that place, closer to Kruševac to dropping dust on the Kosovo heroes' monument, on Lazarica, on Ljubostin, on Vrnjak Promenade, on the Millutin monument in Kralje, on Zic, that's something I really don't believe the minister signed by having and thinking about these consequences, probably by some automation. What is my appeal, that the simple ministry does not change the decision, but comes and we agree again on one conversation, because the withdrawal of this decision does not mean defeating the ministry, the withdrawal of the decision is the victory of the ministry because it is for the benefit of the citizens of these municipalities and the matters of the whole of Serbia. I'd like to talk to you about the toxic effect on the organism. A huge percentage of lung cancers, people without a nasal barrier, contactdermatitis, means in contact with nickel you have allergic manifestations. It's all something to worry about. I'm asking a practical question, imagine if the news remains that a license has been granted for the exploitation of nickels in Kaludjerica or on the Avalon road or Petrovaradin or on Lyman, I believe it would be automatically prevented. What I would finally have to quote, the professor of academics Jovic, who says – metal in the country matures. Our nickel has not matured, we allow new generations to decide whether or not the nickel ore has matured or not, and I think the thinking of these younger generations will be much more mature than ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28062	The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28063	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, was cancelled after a series of disgusting attacks and threats to local media by the rock group Riblja Čorba, who was scheduled to take place in Novi Pazar on November 28th. Among the loudest opponents of the Fish Chorba group was the Sandzak Press portal, which attacked the city's authorities, which, I quote, allowed the famous fat brush and Chetnik duke to even schedule a concert. On these portals, many have asked for a force to prevent the concert, and some have suggested beating and rocking Bora Djordjevic. They insulted him on a national basis, called him the ugliest names, threatened to die. In these circumstances, it was impossible to organise this performance and the concert was cancelled, and local authorities and states have not responded until today. This isn't the first time. A while ago, a concert by the Balkanics group was interrupted due to the violent behaviour of extremists. The state authorities didn't react at the time. It's just amazing that the state doesn't react in these situations when extremists ban and cancel concerts and other gatherings that they don't like. My question has been addressed to the Minister of Police, Ivica Dacic, who says, why has none of the representatives of the government condemned these serious threats? Did the police launch an investigation into these threats? How does the state think it stands in the way of this increase in chauvinism and extremism in Novi Pazar, which is why the state cannot guarantee the safety of its citizens? Who are you withdrawing from, and what are you afraid of, and allowing this terror of extremists?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28064	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28065	Dear colleagues, from NATO aggression in 1999 until today in southern Serbia, the work of defence of our borders or administrative lines was carried out by members of the interior ministry of the gendarmes and certain other units of the MUP. At that job and doing his job and his mission, a 20-year-old was killed, 20 police officers were rarely killed by a tank mine, insidiously planted by Cypriot terrorists. Three of our officers are even clans, crucified and put on the hardest possible torment one man can imagine. In such a situation, the families of these people are simply forgotten. In a number of initiatives launched by both authorities and individuals to give these officers a posthumously honor for this work of defence of the state borders, they simply deafen themselves. My question is addressed to the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic – will he and when will he consider the demands of individuals and organisations to be posthumously decorated? What we see is that the Office of the President of the Republic is extremely active in the award of medals, but, nevertheless, order should be made for the people who have left their lives in the defence of this country to which the President of the Republic is chaired today. The second issue is related to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Law enforcement sector, in whose jurisdiction are the maintenance of the monument of the markings and memorials from the Liberation Wars. At the areas of southern Serbia, more specifically the land's security zone, a monument was erected to those same police officers. It is close to Bujanovac, in the municipality of Bujanovac and is made by personal means of fellow officers, without the involvement of state and state authorities and at least what the state can do it is to include in the list of hundreds of memorials and the mention of the features it finance, maintains and cherishes the tradition of these places, simply include that monument. However, more appeals and initiatives that have been launched so far have not yielded results. Is it possible that it was a request from the Cypriot separatists who were pardoned as members of the terrorist OVPBM to remove the monument from the area of their municipality? I expect the ministry to consider, as soon as possible, the list and the obligation of state institutions to maintain the monument as well. All this would be no wonder if we had not had a situation these days if a judicial institution had freed the massacres of the Serb people, members of the famous Gjilan terrorist group, which has committed great crimes against the Serb population and Serb members of the armed forces. This way, I call upon the Minister of Justice, as well as all the institutions responsible for verifying the work of the judicial authorities, if that is so said, to question the work of these judges who have dared to free and free the people who have slaughtered so many of our lives. Personally, in light of what we heard yesterday, some workers of Elektroprivreda Vranje were imprisoned in the basements for a few days when they came to cut off the electricity from the defaulters, so I ask the third question of the Energy Minister – is it possible that in Trnovac they can not pay electricity and that 9,000 souls or thousands of houses owe a great deal of millions for electricity, and that our citizens across Serbia are excluded from the current of 10,000 dinars, even though they have no business and cannot pay even that most basic debt. Is that the equality of all citizens? Is that something we need to put up with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28066	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28067	Dear Chairman, my question today has been addressed to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as regards one fact that happened yesterday in the National Assembly, so far unremembered in the parliamentaryism of the Republic of Serbia. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babic, used the word genocide six times. The most expensive word, behind which millions and millions of victims, killed children, women, children unborn, in gas chambers, blunt and various other weapons. A word spoken very carefully and with a drink to those victims. He said that word one easy way, politicizing a word that no one in modern civilization would dare do. The question addressed to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is – why did he allow it? Why did he tarnish the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Why did he humiliate the state of Serbia, a country whose many members were victims of genocide? A state whose people were decimated, among other things, and genocide. I ask the President of the National Assembly what will be done to punish such behaviour for a spoken word that is very clearly defined through both international judgments and through legal definitions, and genocide, gentlemen Members of the People, means acid or "kill" in Latin. It is an international crime of intentional, complete or partial destruction of national, ethnic, racial and religious groups and belongs to the most serious type of crime against humanity, which is also defined in the Nuremberg judgment. A term of genocide was adopted at the General Assembly meeting in 1946, unlike ethnic cleansing, where the aim is to clear the territory of a particular group of people, where the emphasis on exile is. In genocide, the emphasis is on the physical extinction of a particular population. The word here yesterday was used so lightly by members of the party that I might not be surprised, but I am surprised by the fact that the president of the National Assembly did not respond to this kind of action, that the president of the National Assembly did not urgently invite all the heads of Parliament groups, the College of the National Assembly, and expressed his views on how to continue working in the National Assembly and how to get out of this situation. I ask the president of the National Assembly if he will immediately remove the post of President of the Commission for the Development of the Ethics Code of Mr Babic, who is not fit to carry out that function? I ask the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia what will it do to make this Assembly home to a people of the Republic of Serbia where these words are not used? What will he do to correct a mistake, to correct the disgusting use of this word, and will he also apologize to the citizens of Serbia and the victims of the genocide of all the peoples who were victims of this genocide? We ask the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to call urgently on the National Assembly College and give his statement on this statement by Mr Babic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28068	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28069	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to take advantage of the opportunity before my question and to congratulate the citizens of Serbia who are celebrating St. Arangel today on the glory of baptism, to wish them to spend that glory in joy and joy, to take care of the day that today, the Day of Child Protection in Traffic, and to return home. Let them take this opportunity to use city transport, they don't have to go to the car today. I'm going to ask my few questions to the government, or certain ministries. I had the joy and satisfaction of attending the 94th anniversary of the existence and work of the "Milentija Popovic" high school in Crno Trava last week. You've all heard of Black Grass, and the famous neimaras of the Crnotravci, and that school has educated thousands of people who have made parts of their hands rich in both Serbia and the former Yugoslavia, Europe and can be freely said that their works exist around the world. What will the Ministry of Education do to help that school survive, that in the future rationalisation of schools in Serbia, which I suppose will happen next year, make that school stay and survive that it can further train young generations for a very interesting and honorable invitation? It's an extremely nice, pitomo place, but unfortunately, there are very few people left. What they say, there is nothing but a people. What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do? Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have or prepare a strategy for survival and development for both this area and other border areas, or border areas? We are unable to see that a large number of Serbian residents are gravitating towards Belgrade and large centres, while our border areas remain empty. I have another question I'd like to ask the Minister of Energy. There is a NIS gas station in Black Treva, and as the hosts told me, they were told that because of its inert operation, the station would be closed. What will the Ministry of Energy do to make it possible for these people to buy fuel in their place? If the station closes, they'll need about 40km to get to the first gas station. I believe that both certain ministries and governments have a desire for these ends to survive and develop. So I believe their answer to these questions will be very quick and very quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28070	Since there are no more applications for questions, I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Cedomir Protic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Stefana Miladinović, Dejan Radenkovic, Mladen Grujic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Vuk Jeremic, Gordana Komic and Natasa Vukkovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Interior Minister, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, the secretary of the MUP. Dear People's MPs, since I have a notice that the prime minister can only be here at 13.00 hours, I'm setting a break until 13.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE DETECTIVE ACTIVITY LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Gordana Komić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Prof. Dr. Janko Velselinović, Nenad Konstantinović, Djorđe Milicevic, Stefana Miladinović, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Milisav Petronijevic, Miroljub Stojčić, Zlata Đerić, Dubravka Filipovski, Suzana Spasojevic, Saša Dujović, Zoran Angelkovic, Bojana Djordjevic, Vesna Jovicki and Mirjana Dragas and the amendment Committee for Defence and Home Affairs. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the opinion of the Government in the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, opening a review of the bill in particular. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28072	Madam Chairman, I call on Article 27, who says in his last position that the President of the National Assembly is responsible for the application of this Rules of Procedure and Article 101, calling on the President of the National Assembly to suspend this session and urgently appoint the College of the National Assembly, and on the events that took place during this session, namely on the fact that it is impossible to continue working normally until the dilemma is removed whether the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly is behind what the head of the SNS Parliament Club said yesterday, accusing the genocide of a political party sitting in this parliament. So, I think it's in everyone's interest to continue this work in the normal atmosphere. The only way to do this is to call on the College, to clarify this situation, and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to apply measures to those who have indeed in the most harsh way possible not only humiliated this parliament, but insulted the entire peoples of this country. I don't think anyone can get past that. So this is not a question now of DS and the feelings of DS that her rights have been violated. This is the question of the feeling that the rights of genocide victims have been violated, that the rights of all citizens of this country, who are truly with deep respect, are being taken into account when they use the word genocide, are primarily referring to the respect of the victims of this most terrible crime. I ask you to refer to the President, since I see that he is not here, this request and that we interrupt this session until the College holds a session and, indeed, the National Assembly and all representatives of the political parties are clearly set up in relation to what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28073	Thank you. We will forward the request to the President of the Assembly, but until further notice, I suggest we continue our work. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, tabled an amendment to Article 2. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28074	Well, well, I'm here today as Home Secretary. In general, I would like to say that out of the 68 amendments of the parties, 31 were accepted. It's not accepted 37. So we were very constructive. When it comes to this amendment of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, surely, when it comes to that, we agree with this amendment if it is necessary to make it an integral part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28075	Since the prime minister has accepted the amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? That Word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28076	Just to be exact. So, the proposal for a private security law has been subject to 68 amendments, and 31 of them have been adopted. 43 amendments have been submitted to the proposal for a law on detective activity, and 13 of them have been accepted. When it comes to this particular amendment, it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28077	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No To Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? That the Word has a People's Messenger, Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28078	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted quite a number of amendments to these two laws for the reasons we believe that this is not a legislative activity aimed at regulating certain areas of our society, but rather a cowardly egg, which is subject to laws aimed at introducing dictatorship. The dictatorship as a form of rule...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28079	Please, today we won't use a word of dictatorship or any other word. Please skip and talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28080	Madam Chairman, it is a dictatorship when opposition MPs are not allowed to express their position on the laws. Do not allow yourself to be abused by the ruling majority for your daily – political interests. Let the opposition talk about the law the way the citizens who chose us expect us to. So this is about the classical introduction of dictatorships of these laws and legal definitions, and we consider hate speech...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28081	Mr. Milivoevich, second warning. You will continue to receive a warning if we continue to use these terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28082	It is your legitimate right to defend power, and it is my legitimate right to defend democracy. So, we have these legal solutions, which we have proposed, that we prevent anyone who wishes to be able to deal with detective activity in this country. We wanted to prevent people with a criminal past from being able to deal with detective activity. We wanted to prevent actions that would be directly directed against the opposition under the form of detective activity. We wanted to prevent many negative phenomena through the law on detective activity. We wanted to prevent all those persons who were amnesty through the Amnesty Act from being involved in the pursuit of detective activity. We think it's bad for our society. We believe that our society has the right, when it comes to detective activity, to actually arrange this legal area the way the Home Secretary wants it to. I have absolute confidence that the draft law wanted this area to be regulated in accordance with European laws and that one area of our society, which requires legal basis, was regulated in accordance with the recommendations and EU and the positive experiences of other countries which have also joined the EU or already in the EU. It is unacceptable for us to deal with the detective work of many people who are not worthy of the job. I accept that argument that the interior minister gave in the debate in principle, that the MUP does not always have the legal opportunity to provide information whether all persons have committed a crime or not. I also accept those arguments that there are some regulatory bodies that restrict the MUP in carrying out and building certain certificates restricting the court and prosecutors also to give some opinions about people who want to deal with detective activity, but yet I still believe there must be some legal framework that should not and should not be dealt with by detective activity. It's important in the country that stepped into dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28083	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? That Word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28084	First of all, I want to say that I don't think there's any need or reason that, when it comes to these two laws, there's any reflection that relates to any dictatorship or cowardly egg, etc. This is about laws that need to be taken into account and to be consistent with other bodies and institutions in our legal system. The interior ministry had to bring this text into line with the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matters and agree with the Personal Data Protection Act. Accepting these amendments would get us back to square one. I just want to say that these two laws were sent to the National Assembly and by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, only then was one law. It was almost the same text except that we had to agree this part with Mr. Sabic, and that was why this law was even withdrawn from the procedure. I absolutely stand for it, and these legal solutions will certainly allow the MUP not to allow private security and detective activity to deal with persons who do not possess or qualify or where there are security concerns about such a thing. The aim of this law is to regulate the area legally because Serbia is almost the only country in an environment that does not have a legally regulated area of private security and detective activity. We have, as you know, and as I said last time, a large number of companies and companies dealing with this. On the other hand, it is people who, among other things, use weapons to do their job. That's why it was important for this to be legally regulated in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28085	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28086	Dear Mr. Minister, of course we support the intention to arrange this area. Of course, we are all aware that the lack of a clear legal framework brings us as an entire society in serious danger of being exposed, how can I say, to uncontrollable abuse that can be implemented and we are often witnesses that it happens by forming various groups and various security companies without clearly defining the legal conditions under which they can be formed and under which they work. What is our fundamental observation is that this law, therefore, whether it comes from the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic or it comes from another government, is not about it now, it is about us pointing to a serious problem and a lack that exists in these laws and it is about the fact that the formulation - a security disturbance is not enough guarantee that this work will not be dealt with by people with criminal records. So all our amendments go towards a clear definition of the conditions who can and cannot deal with these actions and what are the conditions when someone has to stop dealing with this activity because, for example, he broke the law or overstepped the necessary defence or used excessive force, etc. And he fell under the law. So that's what this is about. We are now trying to talk to you on this subject and that by accepting the amendments that regulate this much more precisely than the way he regulated the law show us that you really want to arrange this area. Not to give the legal condition that these companies exist and the assumption that they can form and work freely under this law, but to give legal guarantees to this society that they will not be exposed to the possibility that people with criminal records or cops who have been fired because they have overstepped, excessively used force against citizens can deal with this activity. You're going to allow a huge difference between whether or not it's done by people who have undeniable clean biography or a vague definition of security interference. First of all, who determines the security issue? On the basis of what criteria is this security disturbance established? Is there a place for corruption? I'm sure there is. If you let someone judge whether they're secure or not, they're not capable of doing this work. You give someone that right then you leave the possibility that someone might also be exposed to possible corruption in order to enable someone who should otherwise not be engaged in this activity, to engage in this activity. Of course, if this is not defined in a clear enough way, then the question is asked – if someone who is engaged in this activity and who has broken the law, when he has served his sentence, there is still no obstacle to returning and performing the same action, because the law did not restrict him in any way. So, we're trying to talk to you about this, and really believing that your best intention was to get this area organized so that you can train society to be safe, even when private businesses are involved in police and security affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28087	Thank you. The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28088	We have nothing against what you're talking about. On the contrary, I want to say that our laws aren't exactly prescribed, precise security checks, and we're just planning to change the police law that would define the particulars you're talking about. What I'm saying is that all the security checks that were previously done and used may also not have been regulated in some other cases. This is about the text of these two laws that are in line with the professional public, with representatives of all parties involved in this process and those professional and those by the state and those by, I say, independent regulatory bodies. That's where I think about those who do personal data protection, I mean all the ministries, I mean professional associations, among other things, there's the Association of Private Security, within the Chamber of Commerce, and there's the Association of Detectives, I think Dragan Trivan is president. We talked to him about all this, and really this was the only thing that was possible on our side to meet all the criteria. There's no reason for anyone to suspect that we can come up with corruption during security checks. There was a lot of resistance to the history of these laws, that the MUP had any role to play in licensing. They said it shouldn't be done by the MUP, it should be done by an independent agency. We didn't accept such a proposal precisely for these reasons you're talking about. So now we can be satisfied or dissatisfied with the formulations, but the aim of the intensities is to make it impossible for individuals who are safely problematic to be able to perform this kind of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28089	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28090	Here I have no doubt that the best intention is for this area to be settled in the best possible way and I have no doubt that a step more has been done in relation to the demands of those who do so, or would be happy to do so, and I believe that their demands for the state to stay out of it at all. They would be most suited to the fact that the state is absolutely not involved and that it asks them nothing, but to let them organize themselves nicely, and that they perform this activity without any control. We are witnesses and we are as a society in some way victims of the behavior of these groups or companies, so to speak, who have so far behaved. We certainly welcome the ministry's determination not to allow it to be a self-organized area, because if anything should not be self-organised, then it is a matter of security and the issue of the protection of the human and civil rights of all citizens in this country, and these topics are precisely topics of the protection of human and civil rights and of the freedom and security of people, and I think it should certainly not be allowed. But what we can't accept as an answer -- you're saying that you're going to change the Law on the Police and that the fact that security checks and security disorders haven't been defined so far, but that by amending some law, which is a roof law, you're going to define it more precisely, so we're going to know exactly what security clearance means and who won't be able to pass a security check. This law, by the end of this debate, is adopted and effective with what we claim to have remained extremely problematic and unsettled in this law, and that is what security clearance means? You've had to determine by this law what security clearance is for this area, regardless of what other law will determine what security checks are in general. (President: Time. I'm using time to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28091	That's why I asked you if you were using a replica. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 5th amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's letter of Hope of Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28092	Now we come to the very particular member who prescribes in some way the conditions under which a license to perform detective work can be obtained. This article clearly shows a lack and this dramatic lack of criteria and conditions concerning security disorders. The content of our amendment is, and I really don't think that you have any reason not to accept it, perhaps you could possibly, if something should change in it, that this amendment, that clearly and unequivocally restricts the possibility that those persons who are not sentenced to a prison sentence of at least six months or for a criminal act which makes it irrefutable to carry out these tasks, may carry out this action against a person who is not being prosecuted for any criminal offence that is being prosecuted by an official duty, which is not convicted of a criminal offence for which he is being prosecuted under official duty, which has not been sentenced to a sentence of at least six months and who has not been suspended by a serious violation of his official duty by a judicial decision of the competent authority. I really don't see a single reason why you can't accept this amendment as proof that you really want to, under one -- remove the security disturbance as a dilemma to interpret what security is until some other law changes, and to remind you, you've been Home Secretary for five years. You say - that law hasn't been amended yet. Well, for five years, you could have changed it and defined that security disturbance before you sent us these laws into congregation procedure. But if that's not the case, then I'm really calling on you to prove to the general public by accepting this amendment that they're not going to be here in security jobs or detective business or cheerleading groups, or thugs convicted of rape and violence, or cops who overstepped their jurisdiction or over-exploited force, that there will be no criminals fired from prison, and that there will be no police, as we often hear, and they are still at large and they are committing crimes, the police have information about them. So, we invite you with the best intention, firmly supporting you in your intention to edit this area in the best possible way, to show, by accepting this amendment, that this does not really measure those who would be willing to deal with this work rather than to measure the interests of society and every citizen in this country. The interest of society is not that it's the work of people who have been convicted, who are being investigated, who have served time in prison. By accepting this amendment, you will show that you do not go to the hands of those who pressured you not to interfere in these areas, I am sure, those who now, if you adopt such a law without this amendment, will be able to continue to deal with this activity even though they are multiple returnees as to committing crimes. They'll be able to deal with the wrongdoers, the wrongdoers. They will be able to deal with those against whom they may now be conducting criminal acts. Nothing in what is mentioned here can be disputed if you really want this very dangerous, on the one hand, possible abuse, the area of dealing with people who can really be prone to these abuses in the very fact that they've been acting so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28093	Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28094	Obviously this will be a topic after each amendment. It is obvious that DS has the intensities that the basic message of passing these laws is such that, as Mr Milivojevic said, this is a coward's egg, that it's some introduction to dictatorship, that criminals can deal with this topic. Whatever I say, I'm sure you won't react or accept my argument. I'm just asking you to understand that what you're looking for is a much lower level of security checks and criteria than it will be. I explained why. In the law passed at the time of our joint government, they are deleted from the criminal record after a certain number of years when so-called crimes occur. Rehabilitation. According to your proposal, all those who committed these crimes years ago could be free to work. On our proposal, he won't be able to do it. Secondly, you have forgotten that this precedes and checks out the conditions for the authorisation of the supply of weapons, which are much more severe than the ones we're talking about here. We've accepted the amendment, which is next, that the person responsible in law has passed a proper security check. It's the same for a physical person. I'll say that you also know that for some other functions and professions, we've also relied on some security checks when judges and prosecutors were involved. How was that not problematic then and now it's problematic? So separate the policy from this text. I repeat once again that you are not asking for this, but you are looking through what you are proposing to lower levels of security checks and conditions than is foreseen by the law because the records delete it after a certain number of years. I don't know if you understand, someone was sentenced to prison. After five years he's rehabilitated. He's no longer on the criminal record. When he calls on your amendment, he meets all conditions. It doesn't match the M.O.P. data. If you understand what I'm talking about, if you can get enough of what I'm saying, you'll see that this is a different concept than what you suggested here. I don't mind writing everything that's written here, it's just that this isn't enough. That's not enough. Secondly, what we have suggested, in a way, covers a lot more than what you have proposed to your amendments. Also, you have to make sure that the laws that we have adopted on the protection of personality data are very restrictive and rigorous, which do not even allow the MUP to give the information whose car is a spider, which does not even allow the court to say the home number and address of the person's residence, when the court so requests, that is to say, we are to be served with complaints and charges brought against us, especially in this way the use of this personality data. In that everything I've said, somewhere in between, we need to find a formula that protects the interests of the state, and this formulation protects it. That's why I'm not answering that subject any further. I think it's pretty clear what this is all about. When it comes to security clearance, when I was talking about legal regulation, I thought it would be precisely defined what security clearance means. It's never been done before. That's not the subject of this law right now. It doesn't just give the MUP security checks, provide security services, and other laws, too. Because these security checks aren't regulated enough, sometimes unnecessary things come in. For example, when it comes to weapons, to get permission to own weapons, you have public order and peace checks, which doesn't exist in this other one. Be assured that this proposal has covered and given responsibility, in a way, to the MUP, that they must not go through security checks and that the MUP is responsible if someone passes. The second thing you have suggested does not allow sufficient implementation of these criteria, which I hope you are too, because it is entirely possible that the persons who committed the crime ten years ago were in law, according to what you have suggested, they are free to get a license, because they are no longer in criminal record. It's just an explanation. I can't, I can't, I can't. Everyone will speak in their own way, we're all politicians here, not just people who are now professionally watching this part of the law, but that was the basic intensity of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28095	Thank you. Mrs. Kolundjia, just tell me, according to the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28096	Mr. Minister, what did you just tell us? That this amendment narrows down what is the definition of security checks, and that what you've defined as a security disturbance in the general sense, you know, it just seems like you're the only one who means it. Since it doesn't say anything about what's contained in the security check, all we have to do is ask ourselves what it's all contained. If the content of this amendment is narrower than what the police and other services are supposed to do here, we agree that this amendment is changing and that it will be complemented by everything that you think should contain a security check. So, all we have left is for us to believe your word, because the law doesn't define it, that security clearance implies, and that it can't be investigated, that it can't be convicted, that it can't just get out of prison, etc. We're left to trust you. We have to believe that there will be no abuse in the police when that security check is much wider than what we suggest, and no one but you knows what's wider. So, you're entering a space now that's very dangerous. Your answer is, in fact, the greatest danger you could present here right now, because you tell us – you're asking too little, and we're going to ask a lot more. What? Don't ask us. It doesn't, it doesn't say anything, but we'll check it out. By what law are you going to do a check, Mr. Minister? Tell me, by what law? What will be the content of these checks when these laws enter into force? None of us know that. Again, I am asking an additional question, understanding that you are in a divide between the needs of the state to define these conditions as clearly as possible and the restrictions that we have passed, in order to limit power, among other things and the police, and to preserve integrity, dignity and the right to the privacy of citizens, and you must certainly fit into that space, between those two things. But what you can't do, to say -- this is less, we do more, but don't ask what it is. That's inadmissible. If the scope of this amendment is narrow, we agree to extend to everything that you think should contain, to avoid what I respect. So, I respect when you say they're deleted from the records. It's true, we've overlooked it, we've overlooked that some of them are deleted from the records. So the amendment needs to be extended so that those faces are also covered. You ask me a question – how will you get that information, and here you convince me that you will do it anyway. It can't do that, though. Either we find a legal framework, as you come up with that data, or we won't let it be arbitraryly left to someone who's going to figure out how to get that data, and we don't know how it's going to happen. So once again, please consider this amendment, consider the possibility to amend this law in a way that will define what security checks mean and how we will prevent it from being serious, but by society potentially risky jobs, by society, not by individuals, by society potentially risky jobs, by people who should not be dealing with it at all. We know security checks pass and cops in the police, so every day we have a cop who ran over someone, overrun the use of force, etc. So you can't do a perfect security check, that's true, but you have to know what security clearance means and that's all we insist on. If you really care about this law being in line with the intention to arrange this space on the one hand, to ensure that citizens defend themselves against the potential dangers that they threaten from there on the other hand and at the same time respect the principle of man's right to the security and rights of man to protect their human and civil rights and freedom, then you must try to find that solution that will respond to all these requirements. Otherwise, this law is unacceptable. I believe that the problem will be for anyone who tries to carry it out, because everyone will be able to sue you to collect some data on people under the law, and to pass clear legal regulations, and to check people to do jobs for which there has to be a clear definition of how a check is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28097	The word has a Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28098	When someone asks for permission to own a weapon, what does security clearance contain? Criminal acts by official duty and violation of public order and peace. Is that clear enough? You didn't include a record of the misdemeanor with the suggestions. Why didn't you think of that yourself, but I have to complement you? I'm not here to assist opposition MPs. I want to help you as a counselor, of course, pro bono. The other thing is, let's not discuss it any further now, now for those security checks. You know, to get word from someone here who wasn't in power, then I can understand it. How many security checks did your organs issue when your people were in charge? Well, no one can get citizenship until they get a B.I.A. security check. Certain security checks were also mentioned for judges and prosecutors. So all you're saying right now is I can't accept it. Something you've done, don't complain now when someone else does it by the same laws and by the same principles. Nothing's changed. What's changed? Or you will admit that what you did was not good and was not in accordance with the law and that it allowed certain abuses. Do you know how much the fate of humans depended on these security checks? Where was that defined? Nowhere. Security checks, in this law, and weapons check covers a lot more than what you asked for with your amendments. As you're going to suggest amending other laws that define rehabilitation and erasure from criminal records, I don't mind. We're absolutely ready to apply it all and accept it. So I can't accept these amendments of yours, because they don't include a solution to the problem that we have here, and that's a problem of how, on the one hand, it doesn't make it possible for people who have a problem with security clearance, on the other hand, to respect the Personal Data Protection Act and, on the third hand, who simply doesn't allow full insight into the records of all those who were once punished for violations or for crimes. You said here, for example, that whoever's amnesty can't handle it. You know what, this wasn't the only amnesia. You mean all the amnesties they were? And those who have been amnested for not serving a military term, do you think of them? (Hope Kolundji, from the city: Criminal Works. Well, it's a crime, a serious crime. (People MP Srdjan Milivojevic throws out of place. What? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: we will explain later. You have nothing to explain to me. As far as I'm concerned, I know you want to talk about how this is a dictatorship and everything. If it wasn't a dictatorship in time, I'm not going to say your time, but at a time when we were together in power or before that, why would it be now? Nothing in legal solutions has changed. But if you need a political story for such a thing, it's all right, but this isn't a subject, and then I don't need to get involved in this debate. Then discuss it, but this is not a topic for that kind of discussion. Especially that dictatorship will be seen through employees of these detective agencies and private security. Whether criminals could work there and if criminals could form that, that was in your time. Wait, did Legion's wife form a security agency? They've formed many. Various political officials from different parties are headed by these agencies. I don't see anything worse going to happen now than what already exists. The worst is the current condition. This will regulate this area, I mean in a way that is appropriate. If that's wrong, of course we'll change. I'm absolutely ready for the M.O.P. to be held accountable and anyone who gives any license to the M.P. has to be kept awake. It's so-called. The principle of integrity, which means that whoever has a certain discretionary right must be responsible for his actions. The criteria should be absolutely clear. I've already said, what I'm sure can't go through, it's crimes by official duty and violations of public order and peace. He can't get permission to own a weapon. When he can't do that, he can't even get a license. Look, he can't hire anyone who doesn't have a license to do the job. He can hire someone who doesn't do it, hire a coffee cook or a guard, but he can't hire a detective or someone who does private security. I just want to remove any suspicion to the public that there's gonna be any protection for anyone who's not going through a security check.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28099	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanov, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28100	Really just for a little bit of clarification. In order not to make any different interpretations, it seems really unnecessary to me, we really, Mr. Dacic, are trying through amendments to make this law better than it is. There really isn't any politicization. It is that we are at a very interesting moment in Serbia's political life, and you are also familiar with what is happening here, but it really has nothing to do with the qualifications that are being presented. The opposition has the right to doubt and have the right to present opinions that can take this area in one unwanted direction and that is what DS MPs have done and what they will do. But that doesn't mean we don't want to make this law any better than it is. If the amendments aren't good, let's try it together through a deal to make this an effectively regulated area. Nothing more, nothing less. So I'm not going to leave doubt that someone here wants to deal with politics through the amendment process the way you presented it. I don't think that's true. If someone in this country is talking these days, I quote - what you say is a lie, it's what you suggest people who can't be proposed, we're gonna hold party conferences in the Hall of Parliament, we're gonna wear banners, we're gonna choke any criticism, your president is a thief, you're all thieves, you've committed genocide, you're Aryans, then we have to sort of answer that. It's normal for us to conclude that that's the introduction to that word you used. And it has nothing to do with the amendment process, believe me. But given what's been happening to us these days, I also know that you have sensitivity and understanding and that you're not comfortable with a man accusing you of committing genocide yesterday either. (Chairman: Time) I know that it touches you and hurts you, and you might as well react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28101	The word is Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28102	Obviously, there is no willingness to take into account arguments that I think are indisputable. I just want to say one thing to the public. This isn't about a security check on any individual. This is about us regulating the formation of companies that are armed with formations by this law. Why is there special sensitivity to this question compared to many other security checks when you are looking for a passport or any other document? Because this act allows you to create armed formations. Then the sensitivity of the public was increased and raised to a thousand degrees, with full right. And that is why we are trying to in this conversation with you to find a way to remove any doubt and any dilemma about the fact that these armed formations will not be able to get people into the troubled past, on the one hand, and on the other hand that these checks are clearly defined and that all citizens know who does it and how they do it. That's all this is about, not because we have an evil will for you or because we want to politicize this topic. On the contrary, this topic is a couple of excellent political issues, because it concerns the safety of people, because we are now saying, that there is no confusion, that we now define with the law some armed formations and that, of course, the public is very concerned, that we are doing so, and that we have clearly removed any danger that in these formations there should be people who should not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28103	Thank you. Minister Dacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28104	Just so there's no dilemma. We haven't passed a law here on the creation of these formations, they already exist, for more than 10 years. How many agencies do they deal with? How many companies are there? How many people are there? How many guns are there? What is the law that regulates that? None. This law limits the existence of these formations and businesses and determines the conditions. This is actually going to be a big purification in those structures. Please don't make it look like it's going to create something. It exists and you know it all well and many of you are using their services. Even the state authorities used their services. How is that regulated? Who used to hire them? Were they security checks? Did you know who has guns and who doesn't? You're not. So it can't be worse than it is now. It can only be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28105	Thank you. The Kolundji hope, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28106	Mr. Minister, I'm sure it's better when there's a law than when it's gone, when it's all in the space of law. So that's better. It's just that if you're already passing the law to fix that area, is it possible to leave one as sensitive a space as the question of who can deal with the undefined? And if it were better to have a law than not to have one, it's not a question to anyone, not to us either. But could we have avoided this danger that stands in some undefined space of what security clearance means and who will decide and in what way? That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28107	Thank you. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28108	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister and Prime Minister, I have also submitted an amendment to this member of the law. First, I'm going to look back on your discussion when you say that if anything goes wrong with this law, we're going to change. As political circumstances develop, it will change you rather than you will be able to change the law, unfortunately. Don't throw it away, try to keep me quiet if you can't talk me out of it. He leads us here, when it comes to this law, and knowledge, but he leads us to experience. Here's to ask what you're throwing – do you remember some security agencies in the '90s, which started as security agencies and ended up as Arkan's "Tigers". Was that a nice security agency? Do you remember some people who left the National Security Service under very suspicious circumstances and brought home files and ended up being members of the security agency? Can you imagine Rade Markovic, the convicted head of the evil squadron, when he is ebolized by President Nikolic, setting up a security agency with all 15 files threatening Serbian citizens? Now, that hurts. And then you yell, "The theme." But those are the facts. Because we're talking about this law, Mr. Dacic, in dramatically changed circumstances. These are no longer the circumstances when we have led this country firmly to Europe, fighting organised crime and corruption. I have absolute confidence that you really have the most honorable intentions when it comes to this law. But I do have suspicions and skeptics about your coalition partners. Because, you know, if they're ready to charge you with genocide and mass crimes in one day and support you, the question is how sincere is their support. On the other hand, in this law, I really see the democratic order of threatening provisions and formulations, and the way data is collected and the way data is processed. I accept your suggestion to do a security check, and I am absolutely convinced that the security check was done in a professional way. Not because you're a minister, so now I'm flattering you or especially trust you. You know, I'm convinced that both the Prime Minister and the Minister, and many other people who perform the most important state functions. But the other day, we saw that a high-ranking civil aviation director didn't pass a security check, so he was elected, and when he was SNS. So, on the one hand, you have a SNS membership card, and on the other hand you have a security check. And security check falls before SNS membership card arguments. Now, that's the problem. It's a dictatorship. Because it's a form of government. You, Mr. Dacic, have completed the Faculty of Political Sciences and you know that dictatorship is not a state order, but a form of government. And some across the street from me have experience from the '90s what a dictatorship is. We've got it, too, on this side. Only in reverse roles. And my LDP colleagues. And that's what raises your skepticism and doubts about your honorable intentions. Not you, Mr. Minister, not you, Mr. Dacic. In the honor of your coalition partners. Because when we have an armed army that kidnaps an DS activist and takes him to the SNS premises in Vrbas, in the middle of an election campaign, and how worried we are...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28109	Mr. Milivoevich, I really must ask you to speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28110	The subject is the law of private security, and there will be a great deal of detective action. In these two laws, in this so far as I've told you, all our skeptics and reserves have been sublimed against this law. Not because we hate you, as you say, but because we love this country and love democracy. Let me tell you specifically for this article what else I have in mind. I have a big grudge against this member, and I've tried to change that with an amendment. This member of the law did not predict something called conflict of interest. Someone who works in the police security department, say at the lighting of car theft, works for eight years, has a lot of loose ends, one day says, "I'm unhappy with the police salary of a police officer and I'm going to go to a private detective agency, but I'm copying all these items, I'm taking it with me, and now I'm going to do some private research on who was stealing cars and I'm going to get myself a very lucrative capital." When we talk about legislation, I am absolutely convinced that existing agencies, detectives, from the security of those who exist, are formed with the most honorable intentions, most of them. There are also professionals and people who have been in the police, in the military police, and in the security services who know how to arrange these services in accordance with the law, but there is much that needs to be eliminated from this private security sector and private detective agencies. There's a lot going on around here. There's a lot that needs to go away, not meet these legal requirements and jump over this obstacle. But I'm undermining again, and I'm going back to this amendment where it's said that people who spent two years or four years or six years in the police force, BIA, MUP or some other security organizations, institutions, or working on security jobs, can't open a detective's agency immediately after leaving work. It's got to be two years off. You know what, if you work as a crime inspector, you find out a lot, which may not have been processed. I especially have a skepticism when I see that private detective activity and private security can be handled by police officers who have been dragged through the tabloids, while there's a charge for the Director of Police. And finally, again, I am going back to this moment, the most powerful topic – what when President Nikolic abilizes Radet Markovic? He comes in the next day and says, "Now I'm going to do detective work." How will the members of the SPO feel? How will the family of Ivan Stambolic feel? How will the family of Slavko Curuvia feel? How will 4,000 members of the “Resistance ” in this country who today, thank God, survive what they have survived? Is that the normal circumstance in the country you're talking about? Do we have to say now – that's all right, we prepared this law, but we did not prepare Radet Markovic's pardon. On the contrary, we have prepared a law on opening secret files. And when we talk, for the end, about the security assessment and the security procedure, I am absolutely convinced, Mr. Dacic, that, through the Internal Affairs Act, it is necessary to regulate the correct procedure of what security checks are. I absolutely support you in that, you'll have DS support, but when are we going to pass this law? Are we going to have a legal hole now, an inability to pass this law, because now we're going to have a vacuum and a void between the adoption of the Private Security Act and detective activity, on the one hand, and on the other hand we're going to have one period to wait for the Internal Affairs Act. What if the ruling party decides to call parliamentary elections? Then how big is the vacuum going to be? And detective agencies and private security show up in some campaign, like in Vrbas, kidnapping participants in the election, us from the DS, who, behold, are accused of genocide. Why don't they kill us then? You know what happens to people who are accused of genocide, they end up convicted of the most terrible punishment. We were convicted of genocide yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28111	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28112	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that I fully support the views of the Prime Minister and the current Home Secretary, for a very simple reason, I think that the area we're talking about is part of a broader area that must definitely be clearly defined through different laws, including the Internal Affairs Act, which Mr. Minister is talking about. If that's true and we can't really be called on to work things out today, because the most important thing that we're talking about today is the fact that we have a situation back in security checks for years. Let's just say, someone because his grandfather stole a chicken can't pass a security check, so he can't be a member of the police force, not in some other organs, and we're having a serious discussion in that direction. We really must go through this law and through future activities to accept certain values and a different relationship. I think that the amendment that the DS is proposing, to go into such details now, is actually pushing us from one serious debate, which means a security check, because a very simple example you have, I'm going to do it a little bit now, to explain what the minister is right about, to come out of another context, when we talk about the police, you have a situation today that you can't get someone for security checks to receive into the police force, because his grandfather did a little criminally, and on the other hand, that the same policeman if during his service he breaks certain regulations, he is punished in one particular way, he continues his service. I'm using this as an argument in favour of saying that I support the full position of the minister that today we can't solve the entire security clearance system and that this has to be the subject of serious discussion, that we have to come up with serious solutions, and these cases that I've been talking about haven't happened in 20, 30 years. We are witnessing all this that happened during both the democratic government and the one that says whether it's democratic or not, we've all been on different sides and talked about it. We had as a Roma party the situation that we supported both, and the other and the third. The fact that we're saying this today is that we've always supported the program and the real project. We think that this is a good program of id and is the right approach and that in this direction we expect the minister's responsibility to really make these laws and to come to the agenda and that it really is a fundamental approach to defining what security checks are and that this is not the subject of this law alone and that it will then create a serious problem for us, that we rightly address this problem systemically for all other issues where we are being implemented in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28113	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28114	The President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, we consider this to be an important issue regulated by Article 5 of the Law, which speaks of the licence. In fact, to regulate this area, so that we can clearly tell who can perform the detective's work, a license is introduced, and Article 5 we're talking about now is who can do all the work, or who can get the license. As I understood from these discussions so far, we had on the one hand a proposal for an amendment that proposed some restrictions, and on the other hand, a very reasoned response from the Prime Minister, or the Minister of the Interior, by proposing and adopting here through amendments to the cabinet session and through the bill itself is much broader, much stricter conditions. We believe that we should support it, accept it because simply that proposal that we heard from colleagues who have submitted the amendment, just before I heard and heard from another colleague to understand and that it is sufficient security checks to stand, that it is sufficiently clear, sufficiently limited, sufficiently sharp, so that I don't think there is any dilemma here, the proposal clearly regulates it, we support such a proposal and the Government's proposal for amendments to Article 5. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28115	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Stefana Miladanovic. The government and the resolution committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28116	Thank you. I will speak as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. At first, I would also like to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia and the committees responsible for accepting this amendment by my colleagues Stefana Miladanovic and Djordz Milicevic and for becoming an integral part of the government. However, respected representatives of the government and representatives of the MUP, it is not doubtless that the debates in the principle of the law on private security and detective activity have caused different comments, but the fact and opinion of those interested in this area, as well as ordinary citizens, that Serbia is not needed, but rather the necessary adoption of roof laws governing the area of private security and detective activity, first of all, that Serbia is the only country in the region that has not yet passed the law in this area, secondly, which is such that in such conditions in the Republic of Serbia the private security sector is very developed. I will remind you that in this sector, as you said, there are about 50,000 people and that there are about 50,000 pieces of weapons, although there are no precise figures on the exact number. In these conditions, services of this kind are provided, which are accompanied by modern trends. At this time, however, there is no clearly defined rights and obligations of legal and natural persons performing this specific activity, nor is there a clear role of the competent national authority in overseeing the conduct of private security operations modelled by other European countries. You, Mr. President, and in your opening statement, have made it clear that both draft laws aim to professionalise these activities in order to achieve the level of quality of services, counting on their contribution to the overall internal security system, which this significant resource can certainly provide. In a debate on the principle of the SPS parliamentary group, she tried to make constructive discussions to contribute to making the laws as good as possible in order for this sector to be done in the best possible way in these conditions. It is clear to you and to us that we are not making ideal laws, which tells the experience of countries in the environment, but when it comes to the concrete advantages of these laws, the greatest gain is that there are legal frameworks to protect the interests of citizens and state and employers and employees in the private security sector. In this regard, SPS MPs submitted a total of 26 amendments, 20 to the private security law and six amendments to the law on detective activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28117	Mr Stojcic, I remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we should talk about the agenda point, therefore, the amendment to Article 5, so please return the discussion in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28118	That's what I'm talking about. I'll just talk about all the amendments and we won't get back to you later. We wanted the amendments to one and the other laws to be as high-quality and applicable in practice as possible, so that our amendments contribute to making the laws more quality in the areas that are being regulated, above all, the status of employees, the status of enterprises, the technical equipment and use of these funds, the establishment of the employment relationship of employees, but also the termination of the employment relationship, the harmonisation of the work of employees, as well as the harmonisation of the law with other laws. The law on detective activity proposes that we better define which conditions must be met by the responsible person involved in this activity, that the law must comply with other laws, as well as to specify certain provisions of the law. To our satisfaction, a number of our amendments and MPs have been accepted by the promoters and the SPS are pleased that we have made a significant contribution to making the laws more quality and more applicable in practice, and that it has also been recognised by the legislator of these laws and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for which we thank them. Finally, I would like to wish on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group a successful implementation of these laws, since Serbia is the first time to regulate this area. At the very end, I want to congratulate all the believers in Serbia, who celebrate the glory of Saint Arangel today, and to wish to celebrate for a long time, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28119	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment with corrections was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 6. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has Prime Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28120	I have to do it for my rules of procedure. The proposer accepts the amendment of the Committee, so that it could become an integral part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28121	Thank you. I find that the amendment of the Committee to Article 6 has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Miroljub Stojcic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment with corrections was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28122	Just one note, when it comes to this article 6. I didn't want to talk about my amendment and Mrs. Comic's amendment. It would not be a good idea to accept that people who have left the MUP due to a serious violation of their official duty are given permission by the competent authority to carry out the detective's work. That's the amendment we had on this article 6, which is very meaningful. As I recall, she also had Mrs. Karavidic's suggestion that persons who were rightly convicted of domestic violence should also not carry out this action, so I leave this proposal for you to think.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28123	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic and Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski together. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28124	In Article 8(1), the words ‘who is secured from burglary and unauthorized access’ shall be deleted. I think they're unnecessary in the text of the law. They are subject to interpretation and interpretation of such that they can even represent a corrupt element in this law and are certainly not a matter of law. I leave the minister, consulting the profession, can also leave these points of the law as it says, but I'm making a proposal that it might be deleted, because what does it mean is that he's secured from breaking and unauthorized access, and what is today an unauthorized approach in some rooms, what is an authorized approach and what is a break-in and what is security? So, is security if there's an iron grid on the door, if there's video surveillance, if there's an alarm? Maybe we should define more precisely what that means through the law. I don't insist on making amendments, I'm just suggesting that it's not exactly defined in this law, which means unauthorized access and what security means from breaking and entering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28125	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The National MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski submitted together to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28126	Article 9 refers to the issue of a license to perform detective activity, and I intervened there when it comes to two members of this law. First, it is incomprehensible that the text of the draft law on detective activity does not define deadlines for issuing a license to carry out detective work. Thus, the law states: “The application for authorisation is submitted to the Ministry. The application shall be accompanied by acts, assurances, certificates, copies or public documents. The license is issued for five years. “ But it doesn’t say what time the license is issued. When there is one discretionary right undefined by law, then the next day perhaps you, Mr. Dacic, won't be Home Secretary, can come someone else for the Home Secretary, so he says - agency A will have a response within 30 days, agency B within 60 days. I think that's unimaginable. We still have to predict through the law a deadline for issuing a license. I also intervened when it came to a formal license. To be honest, I talked to the security people and they didn't really know what the license was in the formal form. Now, if I have a license in solemn form, and you don't, does that mean my agency is better or not better, does that license in the formal form pay extra, does it produce any extra costs? I don't think that's precisely defined by law, you should consider, if there's no other option already, that even if the committee in charge delivers an amendment that obliges you within what time period you should submit a reply to the ministry when it comes to applying for a licence. Don't leave us without an answer. Tell us what's the deadline within which the ministry is obliged to give the license when the company in charge of the detective's work is addressed. So is that 15, 30, 45 or 60 days? That's not what the law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28127	Thank you. The word has a Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28128	I'm just saying that when it comes to everything, so to speak, papers, or decisions or documents issued by the MUP, the General Administrative Procedure Act is applied. The general deadline for that is 30 days, so it's applied to this part. When it comes to what you have said, it is a formal license, so it is some kind of certificate that someone, like any other certificate, might hold in their office or in their own home in their formal form. It's an addendum to a solution that someone can get, and they don't have to. So someone can get a solution to meet the conditions plus they can get that license in solemn form if they want to. To be clear, there are no two licenses, what Mr. Milivojevic said earlier, that someone has a ceremony and someone has another. They all have the same license. Anyone who wants can also get a license in formal form to hold it as some kind of certificate or persuasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28129	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28130	When it comes to this 30-day period in which the MUP, under the Administrative Procedure Act, responds to requests, to remind you just how many people are waiting for more than 30 days. You're aware of that, too. Look, I have a lot of confidence in people who work at the M.O.P. You've got one job there. I think she's being led by Mrs. Zorica Kasalica, the first general woman in the police and an excellent woman working. Any praise for her. It's very professional and always at the service that all these life situations that the law didn't regulate, which life has always had a lot of understanding to help, to come out. He has this human trait that he wants to help people, and it's commendable. As long as you have such professionals in the service, I have confidence that you will find a way to overcome every situation that life imposes, but one minute we will all end our working life and unfortunately Mrs. Zorica Kasalica and you and I, and it would be worth leaving society and the state in such a way that it is defined by the laws, that it does not rest very well, but first of all, that the law obliges that something be issued within 30 days. I'm undermining, I know how many professionals are there who respect that deadline 30 days ago and give all the necessary documents and when it comes to traffic permits and when it comes to driving permits and passports and other documents that don't just fall under the Administrative Procedure Act, there are some other checks to be carried out, but we should still define it through the law that the deadline for issuing a licence is 30 days, that everyone knows, that it's not after the interest of the service that we're not able to give you within 30 days. When it comes to this solemn license, I accept your argument. I know how we Serbs are. Well, everyone likes it when you walk into his office that he has a frame on the wall that was signed by the minister, but here I am burdened by what is said to contain a formal form of license prescribed by the minister. It would be good to at least get that regulation in 45 to 60 days, so there's no such thing as auto-schools and no sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28131	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28132	Vice-President of Parliament, Prime Minister, I decided to intervene after what the Prime Minister spoke of today as Minister of the Interior. I must say I agree with Mr Milivojevic's argument on both of these issues. I expected you to say that since it is not specifically prescribed, it is worth the general deadline and the General Administrative Procedure Act, but the experience of all of us having a lot of problems with the appropriate procedure, especially in some specific procedures like here. He's not even made for such situations. It is a general law that should only actually cover those situations when certain specific procedures or deadlines for ending them are not specifically stated. You're introducing a whole category of new procedures here, one new service, and I think at least at this stage of her work, it was much better to set a special deadline. I don't think he's necessarily supposed to be 30 days. It could be another deadline. That's why I think this is a fundamental question. So I don't think there's a legal void. Of course it's going to apply to the general deadline, but I think it was a good idea for him to be prescribed here. I believe there are excellent professionals in both the Ministry of Interior and other sectors of the state administration who respect the deadline, but you also keep pointing out that the problem of over-complicated procedures, procedures, delays in administration and some of the other state authorities is one of the key problems of our country's functioning. That's how it's always been because of that I think it might have been better to set a shorter deadline. I must admit I was surprised by your argument in the formal form. The solemn form is a special kind of form and right and it does not only involve someone's ability to attach something to the wall or not to the wall. If you've defined yourself to formulate the formal form, then that means very precise things. Otherwise, I think it's better to have such a form, that the fact that someone is going to attach an act with the signature of a minister, issued in public and solemn form, that it's important for those who come into that office so that they can trust the qualities of those they work with. I think it would be very important for everyone to have this publicly presented certificate of compliance with all the conditions. This is one segment to say state affairs which we now trust to be done by privates. At that stage of the transition, it is very important that no abuse arises, that someone slows down after a nice ad, a firm or a cheaper price, and then suffers adverse consequences. That's why I don't think you should have left it at will.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28133	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28134	I only have one logical-style correction here, which says in Article 10. - so he can process the data. I put it here to replace it with words -- it collects information at the user's request. When we say in Serbia that data processing can produce various consequences - what about these data can really happen? Then he through legal formulation -- he can process data, he can understand that he can do a lot of things with that data. Data processing can be subject to various interpretations in the 21st century today. Gathering information - you know exactly what it is. At the request of the user, you especially know what information is. I think these amendments would make the necessary adjustments that would define the detective's tasks more precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28135	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28136	As I was saying at the beginning, we move in a space defined on one hand by the need for a clear determination of the activity of these agencies, i.e. legal persons and individuals, and on the other hand by the Personal Data Protection Act, which precisely defines this term as it says. In the Data Protection Act, the processing personality has been precisely defined. Don't let me read to you what it says about what it is. We just can't put a different term than this. I agree with you that this is now a question of how it sounds, but the language is sometimes defined by some other act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28137	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28138	I thank you, Chairman. I think it's important here to warn of this termological difference, regardless of what the minister calls and reminds you of the Personal Data Protection Act. There's really a little bit of a misunderstanding here. Data processing and data collection are really different terms. Take only in the existing Article 10 at point 3 where a legal person is mentioned for detective activity, so that he can process data on the river – the person can process data on persons who are anonymously treating the user of the service. Be careful with the logical question – how can you process information about an anonymous person? Just read logically – the detective can process data on persons who are anonymously and against the user of the service. I understand that he can collect information about persons who are being mistreated. It's something that's against law and law, etc. But about people who act anonymously, how can they do something anonymously to collect data when you don't know who it is?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28139	Anyone else want a word? Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28140	That's what the police termology calls N.N. face. The word is to the perpetrators of the act or those of the store for which the service is sought by the client, who is not known exactly who is behind it, who threatens etc. So that there is no dilemma, I'll read what the Personal Data Protection Act says. The processing is precisely defined as any action taken in relation to data, such as collection, recording, copying, copying, copying, transmission, search, sorting, storage, storage, separation, cross-section, unification, alteration, change, security, use, recognition, disclosure, dissemination, recording, recording, organisation, storage, adaptation, detection by transfer or other means of making available, concealing, moving and otherwise making available, as well as carrying out other actions related to that data, whether it is performed automatically, semi-automated or otherwise. It's written like that here. It's very complicated, but I think they've made an effort to cover all the actions that can be called processing. That's the only reason we can't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28141	Mr. Bojan Djuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28142	Just for a little while. It's not complicated. This is due to our experience and our continental legal practice to try to imagine all possible situations in advance, and then because of that, these formulations may have a Kakian shape. That's right. I would also prefer that there are general formulas and standards so that we can undermine everything under them, but with us it is a habit of trying exhaustively to cite and then there is always something that can be stated under this – and other forms. That's right, I suppose in your line of work special.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28143	Anyone else want a word? Members of the 11th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28144	When it comes to Article 12, Mr. Minister, I often go to the congregation library, and here I found the following information – one of the presidents of the Government of the Kingdom of Serbia deprived his son of why he received a unit from the Serbian language and he told him – I wrote a written assignment and immediately the teacher gave me a unit. This one answered him – son, I would have to give all my ministers an ace every day because they write all the time – written form, in writing form. It is said in Serbian – a written form and we should really guard and cultivate our beautiful Serbian language. Many times we said it was wrong to write – in writing rather than in writing. Find a way to make it right. When you get home, you will be asked by a child – Dad, if your ministers write written or written form and then we are devising the efforts of a professor of Serbian language. I don't want to talk about this anymore. We spent a lot of time and my distinguished colleague Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović and other colleagues. We've had two more remarks. It's said to be erasing St. 2 and 3 but, most of all, it bothers me – writing form and written form.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28145	Minister Dacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28146	Amendments Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski, which are almost identical when it comes to the formulation, were accepted. But speaking here with their associates, who have otherwise participated in writing all these laws in recent years, tell me that there have been other examples. When they wrote "written", that there was an amendment to be "written", and that even in some official interpretations -- which the variant is correct or not correct, it was a change, and it was indeed one field that was not so much a matter of politics or legislators, but perhaps more of a Serbian Academy of Sciences, or some that determine language codes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28147	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 12th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28148	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we didn't want to intervene when it comes to Article 15 of the amendments. We have proposed amendments to the arms and ammunition laws. Article 15 states that a detective can obtain permission to carry a personal weapon in accordance with a law governing arms and ammunition. It was pointless to intervene with an amendment to this law, but I would ask your associates and you to put on the agenda as soon as possible, even if you change the Arms and Ammunition Act, and to necessarily insert what the DS has suggested, that all people who want to have firearms, to obtain firearms in Serbia, are obliged to carry out medical examinations, to get assurances of psychophysical abilities to handle weapons, and all those who already have a license to own weapons, that within a year of the law, they are also required to carry out medical examinations when it comes to the possession of weapons, because we have witnessed that one significant number of mass murder in Serbia just happened with weapons for which the owners had neatly issued guns. We find it impossible to intervene with the amendment here, but I ask you to really, when you're doing the Arms and Ammunition Act, put these provisions on the table, that the people who submit this request are obliged to do a psychophysical test with a doctor, first of all with a psychologist, to see if they're capable of owning a weapon.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28149	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28150	When it comes to Article 16, our legal regulations, our legal regulations know some of the provisions that they say – overcoming the necessary defences, and then – the ultimate necessity and the precise definition of what is the ultimate necessity and what is necessary, and in extreme urgency, it is said that this is an act of aggression by the same measure that aggression is directed at, without the possibility of removing the danger of life or the physical integrity of one who provides such defence. But there is something very symptomatic here, in this Article 16. There is one provision that says that the report on the use of firearms and physical forces, as set out in Article 5, is submitted by the detective within 12 hours to the person responsible for detective activity. I think that rock is weird and disputable. First, what if the person who applied the physical strength or the firearm was injured? What if he got injuries that made it impossible for him to deliver such a report? Whether legal sanctions are provided, if he is unable to deliver such a report to the legal person, and on the other hand, if there were no other injuries to him, why so long a 12-hour deadline to report the act. Have him do a report on what happened immediately after the part he did. I say again, I am not going into this trap, as Mr. Djuric said, that we are in the Balkans trying to define every situation life can predict, but I think it would be good to think about this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28151	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28152	It cannot stand "right now", because "now" is not a measurable category. How fast is this "now"? The legislator has to set a deadline, and that's why he's been listed for 12 hours. You know that in many and police affairs and procedures are approximately deadlines, the longest period is 48 hours, when it comes to detention, or so on. to police custody, and of course it's an emergency to be right away, or as soon as possible, but we couldn't write "right now". (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: I accept the explanation. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28153	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Sasa Dujovic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Bojana Angelkovic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, tabled an amendment to Article 17. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28154	Let me just say on behalf of the promoter that I accept this amendment, so that it becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28155	Thank you. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Parliamentarians Miroljub Stojicic and Vesna Jovicki submitted together to the 18th amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28156	For us, Article 20 is the most controversial member, and I am absolutely convinced that you, Mr. Minister and Prime Minister, have also spoken to the competent independent regulatory bodies, that you have also had a conversation with the professional public, but this is how all of this information is provided in Article 20 is rather controversial. There's really a lot of data here that, if given in this way, if in this way these powers are given to the detective, they're inadmissible because they bring in total legal uncertainty. I'm reading here what a detective can do and what data he can get. You know, detective activity shouldn't be a substitute for government powers. However, there are some state authorities whose power we must believe in and we still have to obtain some data through competent state authorities, through institutions, because they are ultimately guaranteed to protect human rights, that they will be implemented in accordance with the law on the processing of these data. I will read everything under the bill by the authority of the state administration, or a legal person, who, on the basis of public authority, is obliged to give the detective on a reasoned written or written request. So, it says this - gives data on the residences and residences of the person, on the owners of motor vehicles and vessels, insurance policies, immovable property owners, pension and disability insurance, data from court files in cases where the right has a user of services and data from the state archives. In this second attitude, it is defined what is necessary to contain that information. Then I go back to the story that you told us that you, as the Department of the Interior, couldn't give the parking service a license plate to write the ticket, and here we say we're going to give it to the detectives. So, then the parking service will hire a detective who, for his account, will find the owners of motor vehicles who did not pay for these anti-constitutional, anti-legal parking tickets. It's just one example. We have asked for the erasure of this member or for at least some other way to be defined, because in this way it can significantly violate human rights, civil rights and freedoms, what the Constitution guarantees. Yet we live in a society of fragile democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28157	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28158	I would just like to remind the minister, who, by accepting some amendments, has also called upon the opinion of the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, that he has also made his remarks to this Article 20, which reads - the proposal for a law in an insufficiently precise way regulates that the authority of the State Administration, a legal person who, on the basis of public authority, maintains certain records or other controllers, by means of a database on a reasoned written request from the detective, is practically obliged that the detectives provide the information contained in the text. This provision is incomplete and it is necessary to specify the same, in the sense of determining which personality data the entities listed are obliged to give to the detective, and that these data are necessary to the detective exclusively for the purpose of carrying out tasks under his jurisdiction, and with due respect for the principle of proportionality. Therefore, it is clear from the analysis of the amendments accepted that there is no amendment accepted by the Ministry, which would be an adequate response to a reasoned remark by the Commissioner on information of public importance and protection of personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28159	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Mirjana Dragas together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28160	The amendment also refers to this under-defined obligation by the authorities and other institutions to give the detective personality information. This amendment is actually trying to define this more clearly and set some sort of condition. I'm not going to argue that the way this amendment has regulated it is the happiest, but I think it's a good guideline for the Ministry to find a way for this member to handle it more precisely, because this amendment defines that, exclusively for the insight of the data referred to in points 3, 5, 6 and 7 and Article 1 of this article, he must obtain special court or management permits. Therefore, it indicates that not all data can be made available to the detective or in case the data required under the Personal Data Protection Act are clearly defined that there are some institutions that permit such data to be collected in some cases. So, again, I'm asking the minister to consider this. It is clear that all these amendments have one goal, and that is to remove any ambiguity from this law and any space for possible abuse. This is a country that has survived an awful lot of tragedies precisely because the personal data were not protected and because various services provided data on certain people and these data were very often abused in the most drastic way. Once again, I ask the Minister to consider amendments and if it is necessary to amend some amendment, but in any case more clearly specify this Article 20, to remove any possibility of it being contrary to the Personal Data Protection Act, on the one hand, and to remove any possibility of abuse of personality data.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28161	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Srdjan Milojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28162	Dear Mr. Minister and Prime Minister, I would really like you to accept this amendment to this article. In Article 23. The bill of law you said that authorised police officers of the Ministry, in the exercise of supervision of the implementation of this law, in addition to the authority to take the actions laid down by the law governing the inspection, have the right and the duty to verify the way in which firearms are kept and carried. It's okay, but it's slow this part: "... as well as the psychophysical ability and training of the gun-handling detective." You know, it's inadmissible for the M.E.P. to assess psychophysical ability. This is what competent medical institutions do, and we have intervened here when it comes to this amendment, which says: “as well as the psychophysical ability and the training of a gun-handling detective,” they replace the words: “and for the psychophysical ability and training of a gun-handling detective they apply for the verification of competent and professional medical services.” I think it's a good amendment, because the next day someone from the world is going to read this law and say -- how can the police assess psychophysical ability, it's not appropriate, it goes beyond police authority. On the other hand, what is meant by the competent service of weapons training? So there must be a confirmation from a shooting or a society engaged in firearms training. It can even betray the MUP, but the psychophysical ability to handle weapons can't judge the MUP. This should, however, be done by competent medical institutions and I think there are absolutely valid reasons for you to accept this amendment, because it does not disturb, but rather, significantly corrects the provision of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28163	The word has a prime minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28164	Just to be exact. I'm sure they don't want cops to determine their psychophysical ability. This is about what happened. inspection, i.e. submission of documents - whether there are assurances about the examination, training, etc. So that's what it's all about, and it's not about the Ministry looking into it. I don't think we're that qualified for that kind of thing after all. If you were to read literally as you explained earlier, perhaps someone might conclude that, but surely that applies to when an authorized police officer comes into inspection, he is seeking confidence in the psychophysical ability and all others that are to be submitted, which are important for someone to meet the conditions at all. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28165	The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28166	I can accept your argument, because I believe the next day the police will come looking for that paper, but the law says it's checking out psychophysical ability. Do you know what can come to mind for people in Serbia? We have a very creative category of imagination. But, well, let me accept that they're really going to ask for confidence, and they're not going to test their psychophysical ability. I think it could have been written a little more precisely, written in law that a police officer is obliged to seek confidence in psychophysical ability. This is how you say he's checking his psychophysical ability. Someone can figure it out the way I am. To be clear, I'm saying this without evil intent. Let's be well-intentioned. I think it was better that you accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28167	The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28168	You now, I think that in making some new rules of procedure you should pay a little more attention to the procedure when discussing the law in particular, because we now have a situation where I, for example, find myself. I can't as a minister right now without a government decision to accept the amendment. On the other hand, the government has to verify that. On the other hand, there are some deadlines when given in a break between, you remember, at least that's how it was when I was an MP, when committees give amendments that amendments can't be submitted in the meantime, and I don't think in general, there are things that they promote in that first reading or second or third in parliament and that could change, but there are no legal opportunities anymore for that kind of thing. If you'd ask me now if we could change anything, I would certainly change it now in terms of defining that you're looking for confidence, but you didn't write it here, right? Do you understand me, you didn't write it that way and to do it now, we need a procedure, and I don't know if you can do it at all? Generally, it's my suggestion, if possible, to make it easier for someone else to write. By the way, I came here and I can stay this whole session, you're talking, we're not any amendments that we haven't accepted, I don't need to explain it at all, I don't need to discuss anything at all, but I can do that part of my job, because I still can't participate in those sessions, so I'm discussing it here and I'm sharing, sometimes there are political things that everyone has an opinion on, but there are some logical things that could be in improving the text.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28169	By amendment, Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28170	Mr. Minister, there is still room for this text of the law to be corrected, by making amendments to its amendment in accordance with the technical correction, in accordance with which we obviously have no dispute. So you also believe that it would be better to write there – evidence of psychophysical ability or belief in psychophysical ability. If you are willing to accept such a kind of amended amendment, the applicant of the amendment may implement the technical correction of the amendment and such an amendment may be adopted. I think it's also good for the Ministry not to have doubts that maybe someone interprets it as the right of the Ministry that he's checking his psychophysical ability, and later he can fall into great responsibility, quite unwarranted at the Ministry, if there's a case of someone who has clear evidence, that he's not mentally capable of carrying a weapon, that weapon of abuse, and then the question can be asked later on how it's possible that a competent state authority who was in charge of following the conditions under which someone can carry a weapon has failed to verify in time whether someone is mentally capable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28171	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28172	We can accept part of what you thought you'd suggest through the change, if that's legally possible. If possible technically, not to check now with police officers psychophysical ability, and if possible, only, if you can, Srdjane, in agreement with Todorovic of the Ministry to see what might be, in the sense that there is a need for confidence in all of this, not to check the psychophysical ability. If you want, we can do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28173	Mr. Dacic, I've concluded that there's a possibility of correcting the proposal. I propose that the Proposer make an amendment and agree with the committee one and the other, but until the debate is concluded in particular under this law. Please do it now. Do we agree in that sense? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28174	We're in agreement, if the formulation is like I said, and that means you're asking for confidence. On the other hand, if it's possible to get in line with the procedure, it can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28175	To make this all work together, we're gonna take a break and we're gonna keep working at 1645 hours. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that according to article 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly will work today after 1800 hours, but the longest until the end of the search in the details of the 7th agenda of this session. I repeat again, the work continues at 1645 hours. Please, still at 4.30 p.m., since the minister, or the prime minister, can arrive at 4.30 p.m. So we continue at 4.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28176	We're going back to work. Since the amendments have arrived for the 23rd amendment, in the same text, MPs: Gordana Comić and Srdjan Milivojevic, with correction. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28177	Let me just say that, as we agreed, we accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28178	Do you want the word, Mr. Milivoevich? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinović. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28179	Mr. Minister, this member again points out that there is a system failure in this law, first of all, regarding who can and whether there are clear criteria for who can do the detective's work. Therefore, this article speaks of what conditions and when an entrepreneur, or legal person, may be temporarily prohibited from performing detective activity. In the reasons for which it can be temporarily banned or permanently banned, there is no provision that says that if someone involved in this activity has committed a criminal offence, in the meantime, a judicial verdict convicted of a criminal offence is also the reason that he can no longer deal with it, that he is temporarily or permanently deprived of his permission to deal with detective activity. The content of this amendment is that the responsible person in the legal person is sentenced to a prison sentence of at least six months or for a criminal offence that makes him unfit to carry out those tasks. If you have now had, however, not particularly convincingly, an explanation why those who are under investigation, who have been convicted, who have been held accountable, could not deal with this activity, now I do not think you have any reason not to accept this amendment, which includes, if in the meantime someone who has been granted permission to do this activity, and in the meantime the circumstances have occurred that he has committed a crime and has been convicted by a judicial verdict of this crime, that this is also the reason why he is deprived of the right to do this activity. Now you have no excuse to say that this amendment is narrower than what you mean, and we don't know what it is, because here, unequivocally, it makes it impossible for those who have committed a crime to continue to deal with detective activity. Indeed, I believe that, with respect to this, you will accept this amendment and thus show that you really do not want to deal with this activity by people with criminal biography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28180	Members of the 26th Amendment with a correction in the same text were submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28181	One mistake has been derailed here, but it is more relevant to the amendment to Article 25, because it is simply incomprehensible that a solution to the ban on performing detective activity does not stand for another provision that says – that the appeal does not delay the implementation of the labour ban solution. Practically, the minister can make a decision, a solution to the ban on the work of a private detective agency due to some failures in the work, but through the law, it was not stated that this solution came into force immediately and that the appeal does not delay the implementation of the solution. We can come into one situation, so unique in Serbia, that the practical minister brings a solution, that the legal person or the natural person to whom the solution applies initiates the appeal and says I do not stop this activity until it is resolved in the second-degree body in my complaint. This is where we predicted that the appeal would not delay the execution of the labour ban solution. We think it's a good and proper intervention when it comes to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28182	The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28183	We also have a proposal here to delete this member of the law, because it defines the concept of secrecy in a vague way, and by interpreting it is subject to arbitraryness, it brings legal certainty with a lack of assurance that the information on the person will indeed be a secret. I think it's also a good amendment. When I read the part he's referring to, you'll understand why it's good. "The legal person for detective activity, or entrepreneur for detective activity, as well as an employee detective, is obliged as a secret, in accordance with the law and other regulations governing the confidentiality of data, to keep all the information they learn in the performance of the job unless otherwise prescribed or agreed. “ We have suggested that this article be deleted because of the vaguely defined concept of “secret ” because what is a secret. Is it secret that I, through the pursuit of detective activity, find out something about an MP, say SNS, or is it not a secret? Is it a secret if I find out some compromising information? Is that a secret for him, and for me, an argument I can use? There are still a dozen other situations that life can impose in Serbia. I won't, since not all MPs are here, to express what could be the subject of a secret, but we would go far enough if we could define in this way what is a secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28184	Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? That Word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28185	Let me just say that I accept this amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28186	On the basis of the proposal's acceptance, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted this amendment. I find that he has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic to article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 36. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28187	As before, on behalf of the promoter, I accept this amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28188	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going over the details of the private security bill. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Momir Stojanović, Srdjan Milivojevic, Janko Vjeljinović, Nenad Konstavić, Zlata Đerić, Dubravka Filipovski, Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milošević, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojišić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Miroslav Petrović, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Sanda Rasković Ivić, Stefana Miladić, Bojana Milicevic, Miroljub Stojčić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanović Koraić, Zoran Andeljković, Dejan Radenković, Suzana Spasojević, Vesna Jović, Božić, Miljana Petrović, Miliš Petrović, Miljanje Petrović, Miljanje Petrović, Miljanje Petrović, Miljanjev Petrović, Miljanjev Petrov, Miljanjev Petrov, Sjavić, Ivana Šović, Ivanaž, Ivanaž, Ivanažović and Drag, Ivanažović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted this amendment. I find that he has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, tabled an amendment to Article 2. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28189	On behalf of the promoter, I accept this amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28190	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted this amendment. I find that he has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Veličković and Ljubica Milosevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 8th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojević, one-time MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28191	There are already a lot more arguments here for criticism, because it's about the law on private security and it's about us having a pretty painful historical memory of what all the various security guards in this country have been doing. We still haven't forgotten that people who were provided waved helicopters towards students, guns toward taxi drivers, and when people who were provided behave like that, so of course those who provided them with greater rights. In this amendment, we intervened in the following way. Private security jobs cannot be carried out by owners of legal entities and entrepreneurs who are legally sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence of more than three months for a criminal offence committed with imagination, which is being prosecuted by official duty. We don't think everyone can do security work. There are still fresh memories of the murder on a Belgrade raft by security officers, which caused the avalanche of protests justified by citizens. There are still fresh memories of overpowering party security powers and kidnapping DS members in Vrbas. We therefore believe that it is very important to consider the reasons and arguments that we now state in this amendment, in order to improve this law, to enlarge and possibly warn any abuse of private security.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28192	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28193	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister, representatives of the ministry, I must say for the sake of the public that we have not submitted amendments to the law on private detectives. We think the law is bad, and it should have been done, and only then would it have entered the congregation procedure. When it comes to this private security law, the DSS has also reacted here in amendment. When it comes to this matter, it is clear to all of us that this matter is not clear, nor is it clarified in our legislation, nor does the state itself know certain data, or how many agencies, or how many employees are employed in those agencies that provide. I don't even know how many guns they own. We must also point out that the rate of mistrust of Serbian citizens in private security is 25%. That is why we are inclined to say that Serbia needs a good law to regulate this matter, but considering its specificities and the complete situation currently in Serbia. I see that here, Mr. Minister, you have used certain experiences of countries in the environment, countries of Europe, countries of the world, and that's good. However, I say again, we should have made a law characteristic of our climate. Many agencies and private security agencies have waited for ten years for this law, waiting for some groundwork, some guidance on this matter. In particular, we have proposed to Article 9 of a specific amendment. Article 9 speaks of a type of license and conditions for legal persons and entrepreneurs, where we asked the legislator to delete points 5 and 6 after point 4 and is related to the licence for the performance of planning and technical protection activities. We believe that the excess points of the 5th and 6th of this article, because this is all subliminal and united in point 4. That was our suggestion, our amendment reaction to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28194	The 10th amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted this amendment. I find that he has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Miladanovic, Djordje Milicevic and Miroljub Stojcic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted this amendment. I find that he has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 10th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28195	Mr. Minister, this amendment is the same as setting up conditions under which someone can get a license to deal with private security matters. It also defines who can't get that license. These are persons who have been convicted, under investigation, officers who have been fired or punished for abuse of official office, etc., as well as the previous law. I think I've tried to convince you that it's important that you accept these amendments. You've shown that you prefer that only you know by which criteria these licences will be determined and I don't think it makes much sense further to convince you of this. I think you and we may have problems, too, but the responsibility is in the future for everything that turns out to be a lack of this law that can have consequences that I believe you don't want either, and certainly we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28196	The 10th amendment, with a correction, was brought together by MPs Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28197	My colleague, Karavidić, and I have joined our colleagues from our parliamentary group, and we wanted to supplement the conditions with this amendment. We suggest that, as a condition, a person should not be punished for committing domestic violence. On this proposal, we were motivated to see data during this year, as well as in previous years, to show a constant increase in domestic violence. Is the reason why and the more clearly and openly talk about family violence now, which is why the media also pay more attention to it, but statistics also make it clear that there is a huge increase in this type of violence in our society. This would be one of the measures to prevent it, because anyone who can behave violently in his family should not provide the lives of others and be responsible for the lives of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28198	On the basis of Article 150(6), The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment to Article 10 has been tabled by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. The Minister called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28199	We accept this amendment and it will become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28200	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vjekovic, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28201	Thank you, Mr. President. So in Article 12, we have a number of points. It's mostly about general conditions for obtaining a license to do private security business, and now there are about eight points. This amendment refers specifically to point 6. where it is said that one of the conditions for obtaining a licence is that that person is trained to handle firearms and then you have another addition in that sentence – that is, if the person has served a military term with weapons, if the jobs are carried out with weapons. So let me simplify this. You think it's enough that a person looking for a license is enough to serve a military term and that he doesn't have to go to some extra training. I have heard from my fellow men that it is not enough to serve a military deadline and that training within that military service does not involve and training with guns, or as it is said - short tubes and that in the Serbian army only officers, i.e. by managing the staff. That's why we don't think you can observe this and that because someone's served a military deadline, which is now going on for three or six months, that he's also trained to handle guns or short tubes, as they say. Otherwise, guns are mostly used in the area. In this explanation, although I didn't write the explanation, but my colleagues wrote that over 95% of the weapons, when it comes to this security, were actually guns and that it wasn't enough that someone had served a military term that is now unencumbered. So, people volunteer, but it's been like that before, even when the army was serving for a year, they just didn't get through that training, and we don't think that this can stay this way and that whoever answers, or whoever wants to get that license to do private security work, has to go through a certain kind of training. So it's not enough to serve a military term. What is nice, i.e. a very creative explanation why you rejected this amendment – the government does not accept the amendment because it believes that this provision will contribute to the popularization of voluntary military service and create conditions for professional and professional performance of private security. I said creatively on purpose. So, one cute explanation why you refuse. I simply can't believe that the easier it will be to get a license to do private security work, that it will be a motive for someone to volunteer for military service, the sooner I think today, or whatever year, that even more people report to the military than they need to serve a voluntary military term, so I don't think we're in the problem of always reporting more candidates than being admitted to voluntary military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28202	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28203	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS, when it comes to this law, has responded to the amendment and no amendments have been accepted. We've submitted eight amendments. Okay, we can agree that they may not have been in line with the opinion of the legislator, but we said that Serbia should get one quality and good law when it comes to private security. We even said that it was good that the state had put its paws on certain processes by creating registers and licensing certain persons who would be workers of that private security. My colleague, Donka Banovic, said in principle why we have responded to this article on the 12th because we believe serving the military deadline is not the right option for someone not to get one quality license. We think they should pass one gun-handling course so they can get a license without just recommending that he served his military time. Many here have served a military term and remember that they never used a gun in the military or fired a gun. That is one of the reasons why we suggest that this provision in Article 12 be deleted. Mr. Minister, I must point out that many security guards have abused the possibility of carrying guns and many other weapons and misbehaving in certain places, easily pulling out those guns, shooting innocent people. So in order to get a license to carry a gun and short tubes, we suggest that this is not the only recommendation, and you wrote in your explanation to popularize voluntary departure to the military. Mr. Minister, we know very well that many people are going to join the army voluntarily to enroll the police academy, not to be in private security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28204	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the amendment to Article 12, was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28205	We accept the amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28206	Thank you. The 12th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28207	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, here's one controversial member of this bill, which is why we tell you that these laws are an assumption and an opportunity to introduce a dictatorship. In this article of the law, you did not foresee that persons who are legally sentenced to an unconditional sentence of three months for a crime committed with imagination, who are being prosecuted by official duty, can carry out security tasks. On the other hand, we have provided for another possibility, and we have amended it and pointed to it, which is that in the position of the 4th of this law, you provide that a person who has an appropriate degree and type of professional education, at least three years of working experience on private security, an authorised police officer on security-intelligence affairs, a professional member of the Army, is allowed to carry out those tasks, but you did not foresee that person should not, over the last five years of active service, be punished for abuse and over-authorization. Now I want to hang on to this article for a while. To take an example, today is Saint Archangel Michael, the glory of the CIA, the Special Anti-Terrorist Unit, is one of the most prominent police units in Serbia. It is a great honor for those brave people to face in their professional lives and for the tasks they do very successfully. When you enter the C.I.A. base, you see that, unfortunately, sad record with the names of the heroes who laid their lives on the altar of the country fighting terrorism, against the most cruel criminals. Indeed, they deserve the respect of the state and the ministry and the eternal forgetfulness of the state toward their families. Unfortunately, the last few years have always been. There was also a situation when the members of the IDP overstepped powers and committed certain crimes. It used to be milder offenses, milder offenses, sometimes it was about serious crimes. I don't think these individual cases are going to clear up on the members of the M.O.P. in the set. I generally trust the members of the MUP, that's what I said in the debate, for me, are members of the MUP people I see every day when I come to work. Honorable professionals and serious people, who protect the law properly and deserve every commendation, every member of the MUP that secures this building and works here. But we have a situation that some members of the security services, due to abuse, have ended up in prison. One of them is Rade Markovic. I pray for a little silence, since President Oliver Antic's adviser announced the possibility that Rade Markovic, former head of the evil squadron, would be pardoned and come out of Zabela. It may happen to us that within a year he appears with a request to do private security work, because he is five years old in the profession and can even ask for him to get in a tender to provide the Assembly, such as SPO leader Vuk Draskovic, to seek to provide us from the Resistance, all thanks to the efforts and the pre-glading efforts of the SNS, which wants to advance the amnesty of all these people. I'll just remind Tomislav Nikolic that when he comes to power, he will question the verdict and the Legion for the murder of the Prime Minister. Wait, was he a member of the security department? Yes, it is. Can he do security work under this law? You got it. Is he in jail? Yes, it is. Did Nikolic announce his amnesty? Yes, it is. What are you protesting? What pains you so much? Shall we quote Alexander Wolfie again? I didn't interrupt while you were silent. Please don't interrupt me. Listen to what I'm saying. You can use it. You're playing with the states. You're introducing a dictatorship. You plan to amnesty the villains of the squadron and allow them to deal...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28208	Mr. Millyvoy, it really doesn't make sense what you're doing. Come on, please, let's get back to the agenda. Please, let's really take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28209	Here I am going to finish, Mr. President, so that we do not enter into conflict on this holy day, on a lofty day, but I will remind you that there is also a dictatorship when the government prevents the opposition's MPs from expressing their opinions and their views.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28210	The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28211	Mr. President, a member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. It's really distasteful to hear about dictatorship for two days. I think even after your warning, the previous speaker spoke. We know what a dictatorship is. It is really embarrassing to say that dictatorship is being introduced in Serbia. But, Mr. President, there's a big trial going on these days in which the defendant is being counseled and allegedly the world's largest lawyers who have suggested that he satanize the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28212	Mr. Atlagic, this has been an amendment and please speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28213	We're talking dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28214	We're not talking about dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28215	I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28216	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? I thought it was an amendment. I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28217	Let me explain. The word dictatorship is extremely untasteful. I said that these days, there's been a big trial in which consultants were American lawyers who suggested that SNS and its president, Aleksandar Vukic, should introduce a dictatorship. Speaks of the MPs of the so-called People's Republic. The democratic parties for the last two days can't understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28218	Mr Atlagic, I cannot allow this kind of atmosphere to rule in the Assembly where MPs will be called the alleged MPs or the alleged Democratic Party. I really need to warn you. It doesn't make sense. I can't let you finish. This isn't the Rules of Procedure. You've entered the line. Please don't go into replicas. Today, in one part of the College, we also discussed overcoming the problem of replicating, using the Rules of Procedure in terms of replication. Please, now is the debate on the bill's proposals. The Prime Minister is here, and the Home Secretary is here, and we're following the debate closely, and I think the debate was going pretty well. Of course, I understand that from time to time, MPs of government and opposition have the right to take a little detour from the course of the debate, but while I can tolerate it a little bit. But when it goes to something that shouldn't, I have to intervene. Please, let's get back to the debate. On the 12th amendment with the correction, MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Miroljub Stojcic together submitted. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment to Article 13 has been tabled by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28219	I accept this amendment to become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28220	Thank you. On the 13th amendment with the correction, MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Suzanne Spasojevic and Vesna Jovicki together submitted. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment to Article 14 have been tabled by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. The word has a Minister Dacic..
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28221	I accept this amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28222	Thank you. Article 14 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28223	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Home Affairs Minister and Prime Minister, here we have provided for some amendments to the amendments to improve the text of the law a little bit, and, above all, the conditions for the loss, or the termination of the validity of the licence, so we have stated that the licence may cease to apply if the person responsible dies or in writing states that he no longer wishes to exercise the work of private security and we believe that the licence should not be subject to the following law. The licence referred to in Article 1(1) shall also cease to be valid if it is established that the evidence on the basis of which the licence has been issued is falsified, false or false. We have predicted that a legal person, entrepreneur and natural person can be withdrawn from the licence if it is determined that he no longer fulfils any other legal requirements for the performance of private security. We believe that amendments are good, that they do not only the style of the law but also introduce some of the life assumptions in the application of this law. It's up to you to accept it or not. This existing member of the law is not bad either, but we believe that these and these changes of the law can be improved to a certain extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28224	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Angelkovic and Bojana Djordjevic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 19th amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28225	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, an amendment has been submitted here to make the working time of members of the private security for several reasons a little clearer. First of all, you know that private security is often engaged in a variety of jobs, from security to nightclubs where hours start from 10:00 p.m., so it takes until the early morning hours and lasts safely longer than eight o'clock, and on the other hand, there are people who work in private security facilities where they work at 7:00 p.m. from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. Now there's only one comparison to the police. When you go to the police brigade on Ban's Hill, you brave, bold, honest, and people for example sometimes work twelve, fourteen hours while the event lasts. Little, little someone comes to Serbia, they provide. We all had opportunities to see police officers standing on the overpasses, end of the road, providing matches, sports events and doing so very professionally despite the fact that this government under the leadership of the Serbian Progressive Party often amnestes hooligans and is exposed to the abuse of hooligans, but they do this job very professionally and very engaged and very dedicated and do it for example. When you visit them, give them our congratulations, on everything they do and what they suffer, on all those sacrifices they bear, on throwing inappropriate objects at matches, on stadiums, on various events, on whose fate the hooligans decide, not them. Now I'm going back to these people, members of private security. I think the employer is obliged to give employees a day's rest when organising night and shift work, that if they work 12 hours continuously they must have as much as the police do some period when they have to rest. If they work at night for 12 hours to be psychologically capable of doing security work, they have to take a break. Remember how much effort we had in the past term to arrange the working hours of police officers and remember that you went out to meet the police officers and unions along with Director Veljovic and that there was a lot of effort to come to the definition of some working time of police officers. These people are also doing a responsible job of private security, and I think it's important that we meet them through legal proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28226	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the amendments to Article 20 The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28227	And we accept this amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28228	The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the Amendment to Article 23 The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28229	We also accept this amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28230	Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic and MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28231	Mr. Minister, in Article 24, I think there's a reason to accept it because there's practically an unification of the gun used in security jobs here. The law stipulates that they use a.9mm caliber, and Mr. Stojanovic and I pointed to one illogicality. First, there's a lot of people working on security jobs and using other caliber guns. Tetejac is a gun with great breakthrough power, and he's got fewer bullets. One bullet is fired by pulling the trigger. On the other hand, there's another caliber. There are guns, although they're not exactly a proper security weapon because they only fit six bullets. I want to give you a suggestion, Mr. Todorovic, when the law is passed on to weapons and ammunition, we from the DS have also prepared a very useful bill. At the moment, Serbian citizens are owned by a large number of different weapons registered with legal permission. We have proposed that the Republic of Serbia implement an arms buy-out action at some symbolic prices in citizens who no longer want that weapon in their possession. There are people who bought guns, guns, and guns from a sense of great uncertainty in the 1990s. Maybe now that this uncertainty is coming back to our homes, not everyone will be ready to sell it, but given that in the meantime a tax on that weapon has been introduced, some people are paying taxes, and they'd be happy to get rid of that weapon, but they don't know how to do it. Perhaps one of the proposals, which should be considered, is that the Republic of Serbia at some prices that will not burden the budget, which can be modest against the cost of human life buys weapons from Serbian citizens who do not want that weapon in their possession. I'm going back to the amendment. Think about whether it's necessary to just unify that all security guards must have nine millimeters or it's possible to be up to nine millimeters, that they have a 765 caliber or a Tetian caliber or some other caliber. Maybe it's a topic to think about because maybe getting these new guns will help "The flag of arms", but it will help people who are involved in security and who already have weapons in their possession, and on the other hand, it will produce excess weapons with citizens and these companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28232	National MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Stefana Miladanovic, Miroljub Stojcic and Djorđe Milicevic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 24th amendment. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28233	This amendment applies to the same member that Milivojevic also submitted the amendment. In the first position, we have a list of which all types of weapons are owned by a worker who is part of private security. You have a list of how he can own a semi-automatic weapon, a nine-millimeter-caliber gun where only one bullet can be fired with one pull of the trigger. Our amendment is that we here feel that we should add - that it can also possess electric trams in accordance with special regulations. We think it's not good, and in the Arms and Ammunition Act, that concept of personal weapons is much more broadly defined. We believe there are many so-called so-called markets. alternative means of coercion, which are not classical weapons, therefore, are not guns, are not semi-automated weapons, which can sometimes contribute to the resolution of some security threat. You've explained that at this point there's no legal framework and I see here that this whole group, these types of weapons, are called electroshockers, I guess from English, and there's no legal framework for these so-called so-called. electroshockers. However, this is exactly what we were going to say with this amendment – that I can, but that under special regulations. Let's say, perhaps here, that some of the following attitudes would be passed by a sublegal act that would regulate the use of these very electric trams, or we also wanted to suggest by this amendment, that the Ministry of the Interior could, by some sublegal act and regulate this matter. We know that at this point there is no legal framework for this, but we think it's very important that private security, except for the use of a gun and semi-automatic weapons, can also use electric trams. You know it's a market in Serbia, it's illegal, but it's very widespread and that simply people can, people who want it, can practically buy different kinds of electroshockers at the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28234	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28235	This is about a debate that is not as much an electoral object of this law, as perhaps the Law on Internal Affairs, the Law on the Police, etc., and that is the problem - which are the means of coercion, among other things, and the ones that you are instructed here. The police aren't allowed to do that today. We felt, until it was introduced into police laws, that it was impossible to allow private security. Why? Because, otherwise, big and difficult discussions are taking place, what are the consequences of these funds. It's about what happened. Tasers, among other things, one of these funds, which causes temporary disability. There is also a debate in many Western societies, whether it should be used or not. I think it's too early to put it into the Private Security Act, because since I said it the last time we talked about it, we're preparing a proposal to amend the Law on Ammunition and Weapons, the Law on the Police, all of which we have to discuss then, and I agree that it must also be part of it, and that it is exactly written what needs and what is allowed to be used. I'll give you one example. When those demonstrations in 2008 against the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, and when police used rubber bullets, there was an injury, among other things, Mr Pelevic suffered a serious injury. After that, I banned the use of rubber bullets by means of a personal act. And today there are great pressures on me to allow and it has nothing to do with this authority. I was under pressure as soon as we banned it. Among other things, there are producers, cops who think they can use it, I thought it had no effect and that it only has great damage and danger for public gatherings. So here and here. The question is what should be allowed, of all of what you have stated. Is that in illegal and illegal traffic? Sure. You can also buy listening devices and various other things illegal with us, but it all has to be part of a legally arranged area and I agree, and I think what you've suggested is actually part of the contemporary movement in the world of police, and I'm more than once, wherever we've visited our colleagues abroad, we've always had a chance to see that, to see how it works. I don't think our people even know how it works, for example. That taser. If they saw that, I think 99% of you here would vote to ban it. Because it's firing practically a bullet, or arrow, from a certain distance and you're disabled. If people saw how it worked, I don't think they'd let that happen. But since police and other security services are facing all these problems and entering hostage situations and many other use of funds that surely ordinary people could not bear. That seems to me to be the basic reason why this amendment of yours is not accepted at this time, but I agree that it's part of it, and I think we should all get ready well, because these are serious topics and God forbid we're preparing ourselves in such a way for these discussions, to really see what's best, what's best used, how are used, what are the practices in the world. It's of interest to all citizens, then. I'm basically saying hello and we'd accept it, but we can't right now because it's not allowed by the police. We don't think it's right to be allowed private security without the police being allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28236	Replica, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28237	It's not even a replica, as long as I have the time of my authorised representative. I didn't know it was forbidden by the police, and I agree with you that if a police officer and police officer can't use those funds, they don't need any private security. What I can say is that I am certainly not part of any lobby and I believe that you were exposed, as Minister of the Interior, to certain interests of certain lobby producers etc. Unfortunately, that's the way it is with us, the lobbies are pretty strong. What's not good is that these lobbies aren't visible, because in some other countries that have arranged that lobbying area, you have it arranged and you simply know who you're talking to and who you're dealing with. I'm not part of any lobby, and as far as I'm concerned, and I believe all the other colleagues, we'd most like it if no one had to carry any guns, no guns, no semi-auto. But unfortunately, we do not live in such a world, but our world is different. I know there's been a discussion about the harmfulness and dangers of these assets, these so-called. electrical tasers. I think it does it in principle – high voltage, low current, etc. and that it simply hasn't been examined enough what the consequences are. What comes first to man, when you say that the consequences are big and dangerous, even unpredictable, then the layman thinks – surely the consequences are less than the consequences of the shooting from the gun are nine millimeters. That's probably what we're all experiencing, but the worst and the worst consequences of shooting a semi-automatic weapon with a single bullet and a nine-millimeter gun are, and whatever the consequences are, they're certainly less likely to be in the use of these stunners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28238	Thank you. By amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I share the opinion of the Minister when it comes to this amendment, because it is not enough just to allow one law, but also to standardize that matter in terms of which types of weapons can be used, on the one hand. On the other hand, since a certain debate is already under way, and we have witnessed earlier years that police often had excessive use of force with a fatal outcome and that the loss of one life is certainly the most tragic thing that can happen to one society, because our officers work, especially in those intervention or special units, under one great pressure and are aware that their mistake can also be tragic for the other side, as well as for themselves. Yet there are people who are willing to defend their lives, besides the safety of the citizens, so we have had these unkind events. However, when it comes to the means of a healthy man, they cannot bear some lasting and serious consequences. There's not even, I mean, no treatment. So think carefully about it when you regulate it by law, yet allow one kind of means, because even if there is excessive use of force, only one who has used the means and is currently affected by the one on which it is used, who can establish a reparable claim. However, even if there is a gunshot wound, the treatment process can also be a debt and expensive for the state, and the question is whether it will be fully successful. So, at this point, I don't think this amendment should be accepted, but in some future, you need to think that this matter is resolved by law, despite the members of the MUP, that even these other security personnel have the right to use and carry such weapons.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28240	According to the amendment, the word is Mr. Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So let me explain what the authors of this amendment wanted to say with this amendment. In fact, I'm going to read it for the public, and it's about the legal provision of physical protection. It reads – for performing the physical protection business of legal persons and private security entrepreneurs can own semi-automatic weapons, a 9mm-caliber pistol, where only one bullet can be fired by pulling the trigger. So, what if private security, which protects a particular person, attacks more of them? He must have an alternative solution to defend himself and to defend the people he protects. It was our intention to help security workers in one way to protect themselves and the people they protect. You, Mr. Prime Minister, have explained to us how this law is going, that is, in which direction and that we may soon, even before this Assembly, have one such legal solution. It was our intention to simply protect both the worker and the physical person he provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28242	Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Miroljub Stojcic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 32, was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28243	We accept this amendment from the Committee to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28244	Thank you. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic to article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Dujovic and Ivana Dinic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Momir Stojanovic and MP Srdjan Milivojevic, the Government and the Resolute Committee adopted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Parliamentarians Zoran Kasalović, Mirjana Dragas and Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic submitted together to the 38th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Dujovic, Slavoljub Vlajkovic and Ivana Dinic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 51st amendment. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28245	Thank you. The title above this article 51 is - Using the means of binding. It says – binding means can be used according to a person who is temporarily detained under the provisions of this law, in order to prevent facial resistance or to refuse an attack. So that's what this point 1. What do we propose with this amendment? We suggest that after saying "refuses of attacks" we add the words "orientated towards a security officer or a protected facility, or other persons in a protected facility". What did we practically want with this amendment? We wanted to specify the very word “attack. ” What kind of attack? An attack aimed at a security officer, private security or a protected facility. At least we thought of this amendment that you would accept it, because it simply specifies what an attack is, so that some other kind of abuses do not occur. I have to admit, I didn't quite understand why this amendment was rejected. It is said – for the reason that the applicant's intrinsicity was to build the powers of private security officers relatively by the powers of police officers, i.e. that private security cannot in any case have different or greater powers than police officers. I don't see how this amendment's private security would have any greater powers than police officers by actually wanting to in some way simply define what an attack is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28246	Members of the 53rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28247	And this member of the law, which is Article 53, refers to the use of physical strength. We demanded that before the attack was carried out by security workers he identified and thus warned all those people who attacked him or the individual who attacked him or the person he provided physically, to identify himself and thus that he could react afterwards. I think you can accept this amendment, Mr. Minister, because that's how you're going to make it easier for security workers to do their part of the job in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28248	Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 62nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Miletic Mihajlovic, Suzana Spasojevic and Vesna Stepic submitted together to the 63rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 67, was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28249	I accept this amendment for the same reasons, in order to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28250	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 69, was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28251	Also, I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28252	Members of the 71st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 76, was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28253	We also accept this amendment from the Committee to become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28254	Thank you. Parliamentarians Miroljub Stojcic and Susana Spasojevic submitted together to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 77, was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28255	We also accept this amendment from the Committee to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28256	Thank you. The 77th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 79th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 79th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment to Article 80 has been tabled by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28257	We accept this amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28258	Thank you. On Article 86, MP Momir Stojanovic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic, Mirjana Dragas and Bojana Djordjevic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miletic Mihajlovic, Dr Zoran Radovanovic and Snezana Paunovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 88th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Parliamentarians Miroljub Stojcic, Zoran Angelkovic and Ivana Dinic submitted together to the 88th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MPs Miroljub Stojcic and Zvonimir Stevic submitted together to the 89th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 89th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment to Article 89 was submitted by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28259	We accept this amendment to become an integral part of the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-21-0.u28260	Thank you. Members of the 90th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivana Dinic and Sasa Dujovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're closing work for today, and we'll continue tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
