ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29397	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today is the day when MPs have the right to ask questions, so I ask the MPs, who want to ask a question, to apply. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the long run, Albanians from the Presevo Valley are hostages of unresolved relations between Serbia and Kosovo. They were perfectly normal expectations that their life problems would be dealt with more seriously when the Brussels talks on normalising these relationships began. However, the Brussels agreements so far have largely worked to resolve the situation of the Serb community in Kosovo, while still remains a difficult position for Albanians in Serbia. Officially, talks by Albanian representatives with the government on solving very difficult life problems, following tensions caused by the gendarme intervention to remove the monuments of the panel in Presevo, and in Bujanovac for the construction of a provocative memorial centre of the gendarme. At the very beginning, when the difficult position of Albanians in the judiciary was to be resolved, it turned out that this government does not deviate from a discriminatory relationship with Albanians in the area. Moreover, so far, the transfer of blame to the Albanian population for failing to realise the government's programme for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja in 2001, because Albanians allegedly do not want to exercise their rights. The government's representatives are now openly pushing for a drastic review of the yet-unachieved 2001 programme, conditioning it with their count, in this case, Albanians. Perfidously using a boycott of the Albanian census for imposing discriminatory conditions for the census, the government openly and even more drastically discriminates against all Albanians in Serbia by reducing funding to the Albanian National Council by 30%. The municipality of Presevo has been abolished by the basic court and the main prosecutor's office, because the municipality of 35,000 inhabitants from 2002 has been falsified with only three thousand inhabitants. Instead of 32 thousand existing Albanians in Presevo, the government recognises only 416 and in Bujanovac instead of 25,000 Albanians, the government recognises only 244 Albanians. In this absurd situation, imposed by the state with concrete decisions, both by abolishing courts, by reducing the financing of Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities, as well as the National Council of Albanians, as well as by eradicating the residence of refugees from this area during the war and emergency, but also by young Albanians working in Pristina or Gjilan, because they have no chance of being employed in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. Now I ask the question – why has the federal and republican government programme for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja not been implemented so far, which was planned for the period 2001. - 2004? Why is the achievement of the basic objectives of this programme, above all economic revitalisation, the integration of Albanians into state authorities and institutions, conditioned with the count of Albanians, when it is known that more than ten thousand employees have been officially reported in Presevo alone? Why in Presevo, especially in Bujanovac and Medvedja, is nothing done to create at least minimum conditions for the return of the displaced and evasive population during the wartime conditions? Since the government obviously does not recognise almost 99% of Albanians in Presevo and Bujanovac through its decisions and solutions, does this mean that they have no obligation to the state? Are they then exempt from the obligation to pay taxes and other fees? Now to remind you, the former Yugoslavia, its governments have in the past had agreements on the eviction of their minorities. Whether these open moves are now showing the same intentions to be released in this case by the Albanian national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29399	I will read the order of MPs: Emir Elfic, Sanja Jefić Brankovic, Olena Papuga, Olgica Batić, Bojana Djordjevic, Tamara Tripic and Ljubisa Stojmirović. The word has the People's MP Emir Elfic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29400	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has published the text of the draft law on national councils of national minorities. A public debate has been opened on this issue, which is under way since 25 November of this year and will continue until 17 December 2013. The existing National Minority Councils Act showed its full lack in 2010 when there were also choirs under the law, which showed shortcomings in the pre-election processes, during the elections and also in the post-election process. Also, in terms of correspondence between national councils and competent state authorities, the level of communication was not satisfactory. As far as I've been able to see, this bill treats more technical, procedural issues than the national councils themselves. I don't want to talk about content. When that law comes into practice in the Assembly, it can be talked about the content itself. But I want to ask a set of questions to the Ministry of Justice – why has this approach been made to preparing for the change of the law? Namely, it only appeared on the Justice and State Administration site, without any additional information and transparent information to anyone interested in this matter, and I am fully convinced that interest, when all national communities in Serbia are concerned, is great when it comes to this law. I wonder why it's such a short time for a public hearing? Why are the public and interested parties not more transparently informed, but only through the Ministry's website? Why is the public debate not open to the general public, but closes in a circle chosen by the ministry, which created and created a working group? In public debates, as far as I know, only one was held in Vrsac, directly invited participants who could attend. Why has this not been informed of the parliamentary parties of national minorities who, by my deep conviction, were to participate in the design itself and in the procedure of public debate? The final question is why is the law not available in the languages of national minorities and only making comments, which is the constitutional and legal law of national communities in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29401	The word has a folk MP Sanja Jeftic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29402	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ministers in absentia, I don't really know how to animate you to come and answer parliamentary questions, given that we have begun to lead monologues on this issue and that we are talking to each other about issues that we should get answers from the competent ministers. In writing, I asked questions and Minister Radulovic. Since I haven't received an answer after 15 days, I'm going to try the same question this way, so I might get lucky that in any way or in any form, I get the same answer. At the end of October of the current year, the Italian company Dajtek, which was otherwise intended to produce elements for the flow of oil and oil for the purposes of the automotive industry, broke the contract, or gave up its planned investment in the Nis working zone. In that sense, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary questions. I know he wasn't in power when this contract was concluded. At that time, the minister, Mr Dinkic, was signed exactly three years ago from the day this company gave up investment, meaning October 2010, a contract with this Italian company was signed, and in that sense it was planned to allocate about 12m euros to invest in this factory. On the other hand, 400 new workers are scheduled to be employed. The city of Nis was set aside, i.e. 2.5 ha of land. Now we have a situation where we have a semi - built facility in a work zone in Nis, which is about 8,000 m2 and that serves nothing. Nis is one of the poorest cities in southern Serbia, with more than 40,000 unemployed people and giving up such an investment for the city of Nis is a huge loss. The least we expect from Mr Radulovic is to answer whether and how is the further use of this semi-building facility planned, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, how much money from the Republika Srpska budget has been allocated to invest in this factory, which we see has ceased to exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29403	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29404	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I refer my first question to the minister of traffic, Alexander Antic. I want to ask him what was the toll charge in July and August 2013 on the E75 highway section between Belgrade and Saturday in both directions? How much revenue was achieved on the payment ramps of Stara Paz and on the payment ramp at Sirig's? To be more specific, I'm interested in how much is it charged for all categories of vehicles on both these charging ramps during that period in dinars and euros? The second question is to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic. Namely, the 2009 Law establishing the competence of the AP Vojvodina requires that the authorities of the province manage and maintain the roads of the second order on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. However, until today, the Republic authorities have not fulfilled their obligation and have not provided financial resources to ensure that the province's competences are respected, and all of this is prescribed by the law of Article 88 and implemented. Moreover, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not made a decision on how to finance these responsibilities, which were passed on by law to the AP Vojvodina. Accordingly, it would be completely irrational to set up a company, and the law provides for companies to be formed to manage and maintain the second-row routes located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Since no decision has been made either by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, businesses have not been established, and under the law, the province is obliged to manage and maintain these routes that are on its territory, which refers to the pathways of the second order. I want to ask if it's another obstruction of the republican organs towards the province's organs. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is ready to respect all the powers that have been passed on to it with pleasure, and we from LSV will have even greater satisfaction if the AP Vojvodina again has its own responsibilities, and especially its own incomes. Also, the AP Vojvodina will form a legal entity for the management of second-class state roads in the territory of the AP Vojvodina by 1 April 2014. I ask Prime Minister Dacic if and when the Republic authorities will fulfil their obligation under Article 88. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and providing the necessary financial resources for the management and maintenance of second-class state roads in the territory of the AP Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29405	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29406	As we were able to hear and inform ourselves through the media a few days ago, Serbia is unfortunately back on the last one, and I would add to the fully deserved place when it comes to the quality of providing health services. It is not a newspaper, for the reason that the title has been given for the second year in a row, and all according to the research done for the needs of the European Parliament. It is the research that shows that Serbia has not improved by an absolute single point compared to last year's score. That is why it is also at the bottom of the scale and last place, when it comes to the quality of providing health services. It shares the last place with countries such as Latvia, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria. This last place of Serbian health is due for the following reasons: because our country's citizens are not available electronic recipes, because our citizens are waiting for more than 21 days for cancer therapy, because our citizens are waiting for more than seven days for a scan, because they are waiting for bigger operations for more than 90 days, etc. Not to mention the lack of stents, the installation of artificial hips, etc., and DHSS talked about it countless times. Now that there is already a huge death of heart attack in our country, high infant mortality, unconstitutional growth, actually rates, cancer disease, as well as many undetected cases of diabetes, the spread of a hospital infection caused by stafilococcial resistance, etc., then there is no wonder why we are exactly where we are when it comes to providing and the quality of health services. I've already mentioned all of this, but I find it appropriate to mention it once again, since I haven't received any concrete answers from the Minister of Health, to which I'm going to ask a specific question. I am particularly interested in why the health minister now wonders about the media that she does not believe in claims that Serbia is in the last place? I think that 451 point score, as far as Serbia got out of 1,000 points, should not be surprised at all, especially when it comes to the portfolio I'm talking about right now. I would ask the Ministry of Health, since I have a few questions, to give me as specific answers as possible, since my questions that I will ask are exactly the same, and in line with all that I have already stated. First, why is it not possible for patients to have access to electronic recipes, since it is stated that something like this will be done if we remember that we discussed it and that this is exactly what Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic was talking about when there was a set of laws on the agenda? Why wait longer than 21 days for cancer therapy, more than seven days for scans? What does this actually do in terms of the prevention of cancer, which is precisely this research done for the purposes of the European Parliament for the first time included and prevention, and what does this seem to be about reducing the cancer rate? Why isn't there an electronic appointment? The next question is: what will be done to prevent the hospital infection that is caused by straphylloccal resistance? Are health homes at this point supplied with enough tetanus vaccines, enough vaccines against little goddesses and mumps, or are we back in a situation that threatens us with the same shortages as it was in May this year? What I am particularly interested in is having Minister Slavica Djukić Dejanovic answer me – what is the actual number of patients enrolled on the waiting list for 2016? Finally, does the Minister of Health feel that Serbia's health has already been bankrupt, but no one has told us about it publicly, as we will meet very quickly below the level of African countries that are just providing health services equal to us? Finally, I will ask the question, since I have very little time, whether there are enough cytostatics at this point in the hospitals, at least those produced in the country of Serbia, as the health minister normally says, and since we have witnessed the shortage of cytostatics, such as "purinethol", or cytostatics used in treating leukemia in children, as well as "fluorourics", i.e. the cheapest and most frequently used cytostatics in the country of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29407	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29408	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to take advantage of the debate on the budget we are having these days in the Assembly, to ask a question and point out the problem of detachment from the budget for the education, science and technological development sector, i.e. to point out the problem of the budget structure for the education, science and technological development sector, and therefore I ask my question to the Minister of Finance, Lazar Krstic. It is our old Serbian custom to criticise everything and that nothing is wrong with us, and I certainly would not speak this way, and I will try to be constructive in asking this question, to mention that what is good with the structure of the budget for education, science and technological development, but also what could be better. As for budget allocation, it should be fair to say that education, science and technological development will receive more than 12 billion and 300 million dinars next year, which means that nothing has been taken from education, which means that we have defined ourselves not to touch where it is most sensitive and where the situation is fragile anyway. It should be honest to say that teachers, teachers, scientists, in Serbia live very modestly, that the allocations for their salaries are not at the level at which they should be singled out for those who care about our children literally. But it's a good thing they're not touched by it. On the other hand, the problem with the structure of the budget for education, science and technological development is that most of the total amount, which is 178,139,232,000 dinars, goes exclusively for wages. I say again, it's good because people are not touched by existence. It's bad that the education budget isn't developmental. There are, however, some good projects for young talent, for funding doctoral studies, but we don't have much investment in the education and science sector, which should have a country that cares about its development. Let me tell you here in front of all of you that the only investment in education and science is the way out of the cycle of poverty. My particular question to Finance Minister Lazar Krstic, who defends the budget and has our support, does not want to be ultra-critical, is when the conditions will come, given the projected economic growth, we have heard that he is probably between 1% and 3% in the coming years, for more serious investments in the education and science sector, is that going to be in two, three, four, five, six years or is that maybe not ever going to happen during our lives? It is necessary to say that the conditions in which scientists work at institutes are more than modest, that separations for material costs are more than modest, that we have a problem with elementary equipment in the entire education sector. So what I want to point out and put it as a problem that we're hopefully all going to find the answer together is that it's not enough to split the pay. That's very important, because people live on it, because their wages are modest anyway. The problem is when, as a society, all of us together, no matter who is the position, who is the opposition, who is in power, who is currently criticising it, we will find a way to invest seriously in education and science the way it was invested 30, 40, 50 years ago, when schools were raised, when colleges were built, when really society was resting on knowledge. Allow me at the end of this question to point out a firm belief that if economic growth is ever in the coming years, that a good part of it should be put into the education of science, because that's the only way to get out of the vicious cycle of poverty. At the very end of asking this question, I would quote exactly the deceased South African President Nelson Mandela, one of the greatest people who lived in our time, who said, "No state can develop unless its citizens are educated." To this I would add only – the education of the people is real politics, and everything else is makeup and cosmetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29409	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29410	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has a few questions, and the first group of questions is about Mr Radulovic's economy minister, about what he's been talking about for several weeks, I can say freely since he became minister. It is a group of laws that should represent a reformal deviation in relation to everything we've had so far, which primarily refers to the new labour law, the privatisation law, the bankruptcy law and the planning and construction law. We had information from the public, however, from Mr Radulovic, that these laws would be following the laws of the budget we started talking about, and then there was a misunderstanding between the ministry, or the government on the one hand and all those interested in the process of passing this law. A few weeks ago, the minister said these laws would be in assembly procedure by the end of this year. Obviously that's not gonna happen. We ask a simple question – when will your laws enter the congregation procedure? What's most important, the content of these laws, LDP has clear views when we talk about these laws. The LDP labour law should be similar to the law passed by Djindjic's government in 2001. When we talk about the Privatisation Act, Minister Radulovic cannot talk about the adoption of a new law on privatisation, in the atmosphere when he calls the whole privatisation a robbery privatisation. What is most important is the Law on Planning and Construction is a law that must enable the construction industry to be launched. We're doing it today with this law we don't have. Also, when we talk about laws and what is necessary to adopt Serbia in an economic sense from a dead end, we should also talk about legislation that regulates the pension fund and retire. Yesterday, Minister Krstic said in one half-rate that we are expected to have a reform of the pension system, i.e. an increase in the age of retirement on the one hand, and on the other hand the introduction of so-called bonuses, i.e. a penalty for temporary retirement. I will remind you and Serbian citizens that five years ago, the LDP proposed that early retirement be at 1% per year of work, which is necessary until the full amount necessary for someone to retire. Today, the International Monetary Fund and the Fiscal Council suggest that the bonus is 6%. This shows how much it costs the state of Serbia, or its citizens, what LDP is talking about in time, and then we were declared traitors, as someone who wants to destroy pensioners, and how does that eventually result in an increase, or that charge? I will also remind all of us that today is December 10th Human Rights Day, the day that the LDP marks as the day of its party. This is what we mark at a time when, I say freely, we treat asylum seekers in a shameful way in Serbia. This day should be a day when at least for a moment the whole society should face what we have done to those people who have found some refuge here in Serbia. I hope that those scenes we've seen from Obrenovac and other cities in Serbia will no longer be repeated, and I can only say that I am proud of my Sandzak countrymen and that everyone in Serbia should be proud of what they did afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29411	Dear People's MPs, I just need to make a point. According to the Rules of Procedure, independent MPs do not have the right to ask questions. I've let it go, and this time I'm going to end it, but I'm asking you to have an understanding in that sense that someone doesn't post an injury to the Rules of Procedure afterwards. This is not enough for the Rules of Procedure to be regulated and I use the analogy referred to in Article 97. That's what I do. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29412	Thank you. That wasn't a problem so far, no one's advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but here's to make it up to you. In the introduction to my parliamentary question, I will have to commend the government. It's hard for me, but I'm gonna have to. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' silence a while ago when Russian Ambassador Cepurin undiplomatically attacked another country on our country's territory was a scandal. If today's visit to Serbia, Mil Djukanovic, after 10 years, at least some answer to the non-diplomatic outburst of the Russian ambassador, I am pleased. I believe that this was not an intention and that the visit was previously agreed, but in any case it can be understood as some answer to what the Russian ambassador said a while ago about Montenegro and its desire to join NATO. It's an introduction and rematch for letting me ask a parliamentary question. My parliamentary question I refer to the Minister of Energy, Mrs Mihajlovic, and it is not a question of who the minister who is working against Serbia's interest is, I expect the question from the prime minister when he reads the diplomatic mail. The construction of South Stream has started, there is also a South Stream firm and a recent mention of the Russian ambassador says the South Stream will cost 1.9 billion euros through Serbia. In a bid of 1.5 billion, over 1.6 billion, we finally reached 1.9 billion. Half, 49% is our obligation and it is clear that this will be paid off as the Russian ambassador informs us, not our government, of transit taxis that will be collected in Serbia's territory. This means that that argument five years ago when it was lobbying for an energy agreement with Russia, that we will be killed by money for transit taxis, obviously, for at least years or decades now, is not standing because the transit fee will be collected by a Russian partner and thereby repay the loan he will give us, as the Russian ambassador says - will be so favourable, fingers to lick. What is happening is very untransparent and therefore I ask Minister Mihajlovic two questions. First, where is it and where can you see the South Stream project with the specification? I'm thinking of a detailed specification of how much a meter of pipe costs, construction works, how much it costs to lay down pipelines in Vojvodina, on a plain, as in eastern Serbia through the mountains, to see that it's worth and it's going to cost 1.9 billion, not, say, 1.7 billion. I think in a situation where government officials tell us that the country is in front of bankruptcy when salaries are cut to professors and doctors, up there 100 or 200 million is really not a joke. We just have a word and a story that it'll cost so much. There are people who are professional, they'd like to see this project. It is impossible that it is only between Bajatovic and his fellow director at the company's "South Stream", and that later as a state we will provide guarantees for the payment of the loan, and the loan will be paid off from transit fees, and transit fees, prices and charges will be made by a company registered in Switzerland. So none of what you were saying, you who advocated this five years ago, will be true. So the first question is – where is this detailed project to see that it costs 1.9 billion? We can't trust anyone. We can't trust our mothers. How much does it cost? What's the estimate that the annual transit taxis are going to be, so with that in terms of the interest capital, and how many decades until we get the first money from transit taxis? That's two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29413	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29414	Thank you. Last week, the Serbian Constitutional Court decided that individual provisions of the AP Vojvodina Statute were not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and set a six-month deadline for the Statute to comply with the constitution. The Constitutional Court's decision must be respected and it is necessary to find a way to bring the Statute of Vojvodina into line with the Constitution. Both the Republic and the province administration must cooperate on that path. So today I ask the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Stefanovic and the President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Pastor - what will he do and what measures will he take to respect the six-month deadline given by the Constitutional Court so that the citizens of Vojvodina will not suffer? The Vojvodina can no longer be dealt with only by way of party and republican interests, or when we are warned by the Constitutional Court, but by the Vojvodina we must deal with it in a state-of-the-art way, because otherwise we will make a desert of Serbia's treasure. Already now, Vojvodina is an undeveloped region with unemployment above and an average salary below the republican average of agriculture which is an untapped resource. What also worries is that Vojvodina is centralized and unevenly developed inside itself. The united regions of Serbia support Vojvodina's autonomy, but multi-layer autonomy, which implies the formation of Srema, Banat and Backa as special areas and the establishment of a special status for the town of Novi Sad, which would allow Vojvodina to develop evenly and that all Vojvodina citizens feel the benefits of autonomy. This means that without additional election costs from the existing MPs elected to the Vojvodina Assembly, councils or district assemblies are formed for each area of Srem, Banat and Backo, who would then continue to choose the so-called local government, which would be entrusted with certain competences, primarily from areas of economic development, infrastructure, environmental, culture and sport. The united regions of Serbia support the decentralisation of Vojvodina with equal chances for all cities and municipalities. When the Vojvodjans ask – where is our money, they should not only look at Belgrade, but also look at Novi Sad. At that time, we probably wouldn't have come into a situation to separate 300 million dinars from the province's budget, and only 200 million for the balanced regional development of Vojvodina or just 160 million for the employment policy. Are mosquitoes in Vojvodina twice the unemployment problem? It is also obvious that the time has matured for a change in the constitution that would allow for Serbia's political regionalisation. Then the Vojvodina, but the rest of Serbia, we wouldn't be dealing with ad hoc. Constitutional changes are necessary in order for everyone in Serbia to get a chance to form their regions and that the concept of regionalisation and decentralisation could be implemented in practice. The United Regions of Serbia are looking for a change in the constitution that should make Serbia a country of seven regions with three levels of government, republican, province and local. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29415	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29416	Dear People's MPs, on this occasion, I would ask the Ministry of Justice and State Administration or the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government or, once and for all, the Ministry, because I really don't know who the subject I'm going to talk about is, and that's the problem of the Ministry Act, of course, not these topics. The question is, when are these ministries or one of them, and the government going to adopt this, do and draft a bill on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina or a bill or a proposal to amend the jurisdiction law? The Serbian Constitutional Court made its decision on the issue, launched by the DSS in this parliament four years ago. That decision was made a year and a half ago, in May 2012, and that decision repealed some provisions, but not just some but significant, essential provisions of that law and a large number of those provisions, 22. Since then, no one has found fit to pass the bill. Meanwhile, during these years and a half, Vojvodina has functioned according to its Statute, which, by the very fact that the provisions of the law were put out of force, was unconstitutional until the moment when it could indeed be said, on the basis of the new Constitutional Court's decision the other day, that the Statute was also unconstitutional. You notice how time is stalled and how time is bought and that nothing is done on this important plan for Serbia's state organisation. We simply have an empty walk legal for the functioning of the Vojvodina and, at this point, a great responsibility is borne by the Government because it did not adopt in time the bill that I am talking about and that I am asking it to give us an answer – will it bring it and when it will bring it? If the government had done its part of the job in good time and given parliament the proposal, that parliament had adopted the proposal after the discussion, the amendments, etc., it is likely that the Constitutional Court would have had more reasons to put out of force certain provisions of the Vojvodina Statute and likely that the Statute would have been faster to comply with the law. The whole time, nothing was actually done, and that is the problem of the Duke today that the Constitution is not being applied. In Vojvodina, in fact, there is a rather perverse constitutional logic in Serbia that says that the Constitution should actually be constitutional, not constitutional, and by that logic, it is actually looking for a change in the Constitution and it is easier to change the Constitution than to apply it. It is the perversion of political and constitutional life in Serbia. A few years ago, four years ago, the procedure was unconstitutional. If you remember, the Law of Jurisdiction was first adopted in the District Parliament, and then the Law of Jurisdiction was adopted on the basis of that Statute. The constitutional law states otherwise – first, the Law of Jurisdiction and then the Statute under the law. But even now, after four years, that's not how it's done, and that's my question for the government -- why didn't the government do their part of the job? The Constitutional Court did its part of the job in slow motion after four years, but come on, he did something. In this decision on the constitutionality of the Statute, however, one member said the decision would apply in six months, i.e. apply in six months unless the government does something in accordance with the Constitution. These six months are again buying time because the discussion of the Constitution of Serbia is slowly insinuating and only insisting that the Constitution be changed, and then the Constitutional Court, since it is loyal to the government, leaves a maximum period, which otherwise allows it, for six months, for that Statute to be agreed or, if you want, to change the Constitution. Now the forces that are for the change of the Constitution have a chance to force this debate into public life. You have one sporting discipline that has developed heavily in our political life, which is to throw bets on the Serbian Constitution, and no one sees whether laws and statutes should be changed according to those provisions as required by the Constitution, and those provisions are not specific provisions of Serbia and its political life and its state, but are in fact the way acts on territorial units are adopted in all states that have a court of national territorial units, from federal units, regions, etc. Only in Serbia goes wrong, both four years ago and now. That is why this is a question and we would like to ask a quick answer, so that we can continue in Parliament to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29417	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Bojana Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29418	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer my question today to the Minister of Industry, Mr Sasa Radulovic. I come from the town of Kruševac whose economy has survived very difficult times in the last decade despite the investment of great effort to put the existing operational capacities into operation, but without adequate and clear state assistance, every day is getting harder. I remind you that the town of Kruševac was an economic miracle of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia. In the city itself, with some 60,000 inhabitants, there were more than 45,000 employees, of which more than 25,000 people in the industry. Heterogen economic structure, engineering, chemical industry, rubber, textiles, the production of alcoholic beverages, the processing of agricultural products, construction, processing industry and other branches placed the town of Kruševac in Serbia's most developed area. Kruševec's imperceptibility, we Kruševljani, at no cost, are going to allow and therefore I am using the opportunity to refer two questions to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Saša Radulovic, with the aim of making appropriate solutions to overcome the current difficulties and to start restoring the economic life of Kruševec. The first question - what are the plans of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stop the further collapse of the IMK "14. October" Kruševac and is there a real plan for this giant machinery to be integrated into the system of production of the public sector in Serbia, Elektroprivreda, mines, road construction and the like? The second question – what is the Government of the Republic of Serbia doing that, above all, "The Last", is being resold by ownership and that it restores serious production for which all the necessary capacities exist from energy, raw materials, technology and human resources are needed? Through asking parliamentary questions, I wanted to meet both the Serbian minister and the public with the real state of the former economic centre, such as Kruševac, and to request that all the measures envisaged by law be taken to stop the trend of losing jobs and create conditions for Kruševac to be a successful city again on Serbia's business map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29419	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tamara Tripic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29420	Thank you. Given that today is the International Day of Human Rights, the issue of human rights in Serbia is logically imposed, and I today intend to ask a question about those human rights that government officials do not mention, and officials of their violation are reluctant to speak, which is the right to a fair trial, and the European Commission also pointed to the problem. The question for the Ministry of Justice is – why is there no prejudgation of innocence and why no criminal action has been brought against any case in the media, when it has been bid against the penalties and the advertisers, and those against whom the proceedings are not being conducted. To remind you, in a report by the European Commission on Serbia's 2013 progress, it is explicitly stressed, I quote - concerns are caused by reports that there are orchestrated media campaigns against the opposition, coalition partners and independent authorities in certain tabloids, presenting details of investigations and announcing arrests based on anonymous sources or information leaked from police investigation or prosecution. The script is always the same. Arrests are first announced for months in the tabloids. People are declared criminals and thieves, tried without a court of law, unverified anonymous statements and police and prosecution tips are taken as absolute truth, on the front pages of the tabloids they are ordered to punish, bring judgments, announce hearings, arrests and arrests, and when one of them is released, no one announces it. A system in which one party and the tabloids decide who is innocent and who is a criminal leads to political persecution throughout Serbia. Seventy-three people were detained or detained, and some are still in custody, and hundreds of citizens were invited to informative talks only because DS members or at some point had contact with Democrats. The detention has become the most popular means of accounting with political opponents and for these persecuted people, I must tell you, the most expensive way to collect political points. I remind you, gentlemen, you should let the institutions of the state do their job, and the minister of justice would have to react to these phenomena. Let me remind you, the universal Declaration of Human Rights specifically in my article. 9, 10th and 11th says no one is to be automatically arrested or detained. Everyone has the exact same right to a fair trial before an independent and impartial court, and anyone charged with a crime has the right to be considered innocent until proven guilty under the law. 73 of them have been denied these rights. How much longer does it take to destroy human destiny for the state to start responding? In order to prove that the arrests are not politically motivated, judicial verdicts should be reached and the details of the investigation and proceedings in the media should be suspended. The second question for the Justice Ministry is also – will it launch an investigation into what the ruling party MP said, which is that the judiciary and the police are working on a political order? The responsibility of the authorities is to examine these allegations. When counterpart Cvian said, I quote -- that at the last three session of the party's presidency, who will be arrested, including Milan Bek, Dmitr Djurovic, Director of Corridor, Miodrag Krstic, Dusan Spasojevic, Mladjan Dinkic, Veroljub Stevanovic, because Vukic cannot be replaced, some SNS people because Vukic does not like them, several directors, Mark Jaksic, to open an investigation against Cedomir Jovanovic, arrests Dragan Djilas, and Cvian argues, the arrest of Dusan Bajatovic was also ordered. Then what's the state's reaction? Do we in the state have or do we not have an independent judiciary and a prosecutor's office or, as counterpart Cvian says, it has become the jurisdiction of the SNS presidency? We also ask that the justice ministry publish statistics on the number of official officials in the political parties against whom the proceedings are being conducted, because the statistics prove that there is only one party's systematic arrest. Fourthly, corruption, as a phenomenon, affects the exercise of many rights, education, health and justice, and in this sense, the Anti-Corruption Agency plays a very important role. However, the Agency’s leaders often made public comments, in violation of the Agency’s Law, thus showing some arbitration. (President: Please bring the end. Finish your thought. ) I just wanted to ask the Anti-Corruption Agency – from which political parties come officials against whom criminal charges have been filed and it is true that the only criminal charges have been filed against DS MPs, although we have thousands of officials who have never reported the assets to the Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29421	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29422	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we face the fact that Serbia is burdened with many problems. These are minor, large or huge problems affecting individuals, certain groups, or a large number of citizens. But there is one problem that none of us can close our eyes, before which none of us can and must turn his head. I've been approached by citizens with one letter that I'm going to read and through that letter they see their problem, and in the end I'm going to ask certain ministries a question. "Respected, you are addressed by a Belgrade group of parents from an affair of missing babies from the maternity home. It is not only on its own behalf, but on behalf of thousands of troubled parents from all over Serbia. He speaks and prays. Pray that this country, the only one we have, sees through after many years, sees through and tells the truth, long hidden and covered up. Who has been trading our newborns for decades? Who are these people who kidnap children to mothers? We've been fighting this monster for years. Whenever we think we've come across an understanding by the state, we quickly realize that we're being deceived and deceived again. The appearance of a search for the truth about its missing children from the maternity ward has narrowed down and brought together Serbian parents in 2002. All the cases resembled each other. After the birth, the doctors told the mothers that the baby had reportedly died. The children were not allowed to see, identify and bury. So for decades, and doubt remains. All the missing babies in the same scenario is just the difference in place, year and time of birth. Parents addressed and sought documentation in maternity homes, institutions for premature births, municipal maternity services, prosecutors' offices, courts, police and ministries. The epilogue of the long-standing search for his supposedly deceased babies is – our children's corpses are gone, our criminal charges have been brought by courts and prosecutors under aging. In 2002 and 2003, parents collected evidence and documents to file criminal charges. The Republic Prosecutor shall issue a mandatory instruction to prosecute and take statements from parents by municipal courts. In 2004, the elected VD republican prosecutor issued a new mandatory instruction where cases are suspended and subject to obsolescence, explaining that there is no legal opportunity to conduct investigations. We addressed the National Assembly, the Committee on Presentations and Proposals, which assessed that this was an extremely difficult problem that needed to be solved within the shortest time. In 2005, the Survey Committee was educated to determine the truth about missing children from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia. Parents co-operated with the Committee and made a major contribution based on everything expressed on the Committee, and it was put into the report. In 2006, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a report on the work of the Survey Committee with a proposal for a measure. From 2007 to 2010, parents are back on the wind of state institutions, and according to the proposal of the Survey Committee, nothing concrete has been done, just a dead letter on paper. In 2010, several parents refer to the Citizens' Protector, who, with special attention, considered complaints and submitted a special report, hoping to benefit not only the National Assembly and its Working Party for draft legislation in order to create formal legal conditions for the conduct of the state authority following reports of missing newborn children from maternity homes, but also state bodies and institutions that will try to answer this sensitive and earthquake issue in the next period. However, in 2011, the Working Party for the Draft Law to create formal legal conditions for the conduct of state authorities following reports of missing newborn children from the maternity ward submitted a report that it would not be justified to amend the provisions of the Criminal Code and that there is no constitutional possibility to allow the processing of previously occurring cases of missing babies. On September 9, 2013, following an appeal made by the Republic of Serbia to the International Court in Strasbourg, on the suit of Mother Zorica Jovanovic, the verdict becomes legal in the case of missing babies, and the state is obliged to take appropriate measures, and best to pass a special law that would prescribe a mechanism aimed at providing individual satisfaction for all parents. Who knows which way we're addressing you with a request to carry out the International Court's verdict with common forces and that after 11 years, the parents of missing babies come to the truth about their missing children, because it's hard to live and carry the burden that our children grow up, grow away from us, and that time cannot return. In advance, the grateful parents of missing babies. “ I don’t think any of us can stay silent on this issue. All those who are well-intentioned should help to get rid of this. I think the question should be addressed to both the prime minister and the minister of justice and the minister of health and to all those in their domains who can find at least any opportunity to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29423	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the next National MP: Stosic Milorad. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of promoter Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance, Saša Radulovic, Minister of Industry and Prof. Dr. Dragan Glamočić, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Dr. Nikola Ćorsovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Nikša Vusurović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management and Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance Department. We are continuing the search in principle on the proposals for acts referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable members of the government, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, much has been said yesterday in this principle debate on the budget, so I do not believe you will hear anything new and epochal from me, but the work of the MP is to take part in the debate on this most important document, in fact, on a single country's personal map. What we could hear yesterday was that this budget was real and it was his greatest value. A real budget in this unrealistic or surreal state really has great value, and I have to admit it. You've announced a big turn, a public money management, a year of great savings, a lot of reforms, with a reason that this can't be done anymore. I can agree with that finding, but none of what you've announced is in this document, and today it's exactly 100 days since the government of the Republic of Serbia was reconstructed. It's a little jubilee, so the results are summed up, the results are, and I think the results, at least in the field of finance and economics, aren't too much to brag about. Here in the budget, the accompanying documents, fiscal strategy and economic policy do not see the effects of any major changes. The only positive thing, and for that I give you credit as finance minister, is that you put above the state guarantee for borrowing the public sector and this other hidden cost. But we're all wondering how it's possible that when you're actually cutting wages and pensions, you're increasing VAT to basic life supplies, to computers, in a country where the IT sector has been declared as one of the strategic deficits as much as 7.1% of GDP? It's possible because there's obviously no political power to actually cut costs this time either. When I say that there is no political force this time, political support has neither your predecessor nor the one before him, and I see that neither you have to go into public enterprises, that is what is crucial, in "Srbigas" and in others. If that were not the case, why would the request to grant the 200m-euro "Srbigas" guarantee in this assembly come in order to maintain liquid liquidity, and then change it by amendment, but not by purpose, but only the currency, so it is no longer 200m euros but $200m. Or why will the "Electropyrivred Serbia" guarantee be given for $100m, again with a changed purpose, and not for maintaining the current liquidity? I understand that VAT is part of the solution, but you could see from your predecessor's experience that an increase in rate doesn't give the expected results and you could have avoided that something bad that showed up, which is that the increase in the overall rate doesn't give the effects that are projected. At what logic will the rise in this lower rate give the effects that are projected? You know very well that this is a short-term solution, which will wear itself out if you don't do essential things on the side of the expenditure. Here the main problem is not what we think – I am a 7.1%) deficit that is projected, but a deficit structure, i.e. that this deficit can only be financed by loans from abroad, that old loans can be returned to new cheaper loans. Our proposal is for you to do it more aggressively than you have done so far, to add to cheaper loans this unproductive state property, so that the interest on these loans will not be eaten more than one third of the budget next year. The reduction of public spending will not be able to solve this budget problem. The expenditure will be reduced by firing extra employees, regardless of the deficits that are coming. Yesterday, you denied that 50,000 people would be fired, there will be more and more from this tense public sector, the wages will be cut, pensions will be frozen, but budget revenues will also be reduced. There'll be less money for private consumption, and that lack of demand hardly anyone can replace. In fact, none of these proposed measures, and this is a major burden on the budget, will not lead to employment growth in a country where the unemployment rate is around 25% and the unemployment rate among the younger population is up to 50%. Without the proposed measures to increase employment, there will be no progress. No one has ever been able to get out of recession just by reducing public spending, especially when there are real high interest rates. As for the reduction of wages, i.e. income on all salaries that are over 60,000 dinars, this salary law can easily fall in the Constitutional Court, since the judiciary is not excluded from the adjustment of earnings. The salaries are reduced both by teachers and doctors, but also by judges and prosecutors. It is a matter of days when someone will initiate a procedure to determine the constitutionality of such a provision. In order to keep the salaries as expenses under control, two laws need to be passed. One that would apply to the public sector without public enterprises and the other only to public enterprises. It's the only way to get paid under control. So, two laws, not this one you suggested. I wanted to ask you a question about your statements, I mean you, Minister of Finance. You said October 11th next, and now it's my question when you're going to move from word to deed. You said October 11th like this – state officials will no longer be able to sit on a few chairs and receive five full salaries from the budget. Secondly, their additional income won't be taxed, but it'll be reviewed and cut, we'll be very aggressive, so we'll cut or cut fees from the second, third or fifth functions. Third, retirement will be impossible to receive salary from the budget. Are you still standing by these points of view and when will we be able to see the first effects of these measures that you can receive from the budget only one receipt, that each other, third, fourth, fifth, will not be allowed and that you will not be able to receive with pensions from the budget? Yesterday we had one, mildly said, unpleasant, momentarily even pathetic debate about whether someone deserved it or not to get paid with a pension. So I'm asking you to settle this dilemma. The next thing I want to ask is – how long will the term "possessing privatisation" be used? It's just amazing that all the privatisations from 2000 to today are characterized as muggings. That's just not true. Is someone in the government against the very concept of privatisation that's one question, but talking about robbery privatisation is quite another. One third of only privatisation in Serbia was broken because it was unsuccessful. The other two thirds were both good and necessary and successful. I simply don't know where who was in the '90s and how he looked at Serbia and how it was then lived in Serbia and how it was done and how it was privatized and who then made the first, second, third and other million favorite currencies, stamps, in these areas. It is fair to say that the social gross product has been increased four times over the past 12 years, and that salaries and pensions have been increased 10 times, and that is the result of these 12 years, which is often pushed under the carpet, but is therefore repeatedly pointed out that there has been a robbery privatisation here. It's just that these things don't stand and they're not true. I have one more question for you. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that this budget is approaching the EU. Can you please explain to me how? I tried to understand this statement that, apart from being political, there is no standoff in reality, but, here, in what part of this budget is the EU approaching us, when the deficits are already coming in the afternoon that we are a little further from the EU, as the first intergovernmental conference, by all indications, is delayed by March, and I think someone would like to postpone those elections announced for March, but okay? That's my political attitude. Not everyone has to agree with him. Once again to the public sector, whenever we all complain about it, and now here we have finally got the numbers how many people do it in the public sector, it's part of the concept of providing existence and we don't need to lose sight of it. As my fellow MP, Bojan Djuric, said yesterday that it is bad to create a confrontation between public and private employees, I fully agree. It is economically bad, politically harmful, and socially very, very bad, not to say disastrously, just as it is bad to create a confrontation between employees and pensioners, so we certainly do not need this other kind of confrontation between the public and the private sector. We won't vote on this budget in the voting day, as you heard, and I won't ask Minister Radulovic any questions at this time, I'll wait for the bankruptcy law to enter the procedure, so we'll have something to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29425	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29426	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have on the agenda a draft budget for 2014 as a continuation of the practically reform road that we started with the adoption of a set of laws relating to Serbia's economic policy measures. This reform road essentially shows that we have a lot of problems on this road. What should be supported in some way in terms of the proposal that the Government and the ministers have made is that the bill was made in this realistic way where simply in a completely transparent and true way, a picture of Serbia after 12 years, about how much we owe, how much we are poor, and how fundamentally we have the potential to get out of a particular crisis. When we talk about different types of type scenarios, Greek scenarios, Portuguese scenarios, Spanish scenarios, I think Serbia is simply located in a region where such scenarios are not possible, but what we can find ourselves in a particular situation is a very difficult social situation in which we can simply without control that in some way all political entities participate in the exercise of power. Then simply when you get into this situation, it is absolutely unnecessary for the citizens of Serbia to know which political party led you to find yourself in such a difficult economic situation. And it should be said that for the last ten to twelve years, just a lot of things have been pushed under the carpet. It should be said that since 2008, many bank guarantees have been given in this assembly, in this parliament, where practically SNS has never existed, has not participated in such a process. There's always a point to make. Now she has also taken responsibility as the main headquarters in the Serbian government for what is going to happen and what is happening now. What are we talking about here? So because the Serbian government has taken one major political responsibility for many of the processes that we often forget when we talk about Serbia's budget, which is the resolution of the Brussels Agreement, namely the relations between Belgrade and Pristina, and we also have the beginning of negotiations with the EU, i.e. the application of the EU's SAA. Both agreements and international obligations cost this country something, and such essential reforms require that you also anticipate certain funds in the budget. Not only in this organisational sense, which needs to be changed, but also in this sense, for example, Kosovo and Metohija are projected to have a budget of around 4.8 billion dinars for next year, and to lose an item in the budget of around 300m euros by applying the trade agreement of 1 January 2014. Therefore, taking into account these facts, we are going into reform, as a state, in the public sector, first to determine how many employees that number is. Then we started reforming the truth about how much we owe to public enterprises, so we saw that, let's say, when it comes to "Serbigas" we have part of the debt to banks, and we have that part of the debt that the state has given in terms of guarantees. That debt is very big. Of course, a debt of 800 million or 224 million, which refers to "Srbigas" and other public enterprises did not occur overnight and did not occur in the last year. I'm sure he's lying somewhere and he's piled up and it's been going from credit to credit, and at the time when we're talking about the credibility of the state and when we're facing reality the most and we're expressing the real budget deficit, we're just the country that loses that vote and gets in its own offer to portfolio more expensive and more expensive loans. She's talking about how we, as a state, can get very favourable loans and get rid of about 2.5 billion with favourable interest rates, the Fiscal Council simply decidently states that it's a great responsibility for those who make their statements in public, because that's why they're destroying the credibility of the state itself and the economy itself, because that's why you're getting more expensive and more expensive loans. Therefore, whether it is a position or an opposition, it should be measured in political statements, especially in those relating to the economy. This applies to all political entities. What's important is to say that public debt is high and it's really in this part so far the biggest, but so far this deficit has always been shown in a manner of hairstyled. For the first time now, we have a realistic statement, and to that end, it needs to be shown essentially, where we have the weakest, so-called neural dots. We said that, so we said that they were social enterprises, 153 enterprises in restructuring, that these are public enterprises, huge debts to "Serbiagas", according to "The Ways of Serbia", according to "The Railway of Serbia" and "The Galenics", we said that these are the most in the banking sector, we said that these are approximately large divisions relating to the PIO Fund. The part that's been attacked, which is that this budget isn't a well-designed agricultural fund, it's not well-designed subsidies, it's not well-designed, it's not well-designed, it's related to social categories, we can say that they're extremely irresponsible. For what? First of all, when we talk about social enterprises or these debts, these restructurings were not also created overnight, but they were laid down for years as problems that no one wanted to deal with, but each time the representatives of capital, bankruptcy managers, entered into bigger and bigger debts and treated the state property as if it were about someone else's and as if they had no responsibility at all about how they had the property. You did not have any practical condemnation of any bankruptcy manager, any representative of capital, which relates to restructure companies, that they did not lead in an adequate manner. Even no such representative has been convicted, whether in an adequate way he has had the capital of these companies. The second part of the story relating to public enterprises themselves, I don't think the state has ever, the Ministry didn't even know how many public enterprises in their jurisdiction are in debt, or how much these bank guarantees are. They had a framework, so it starts with the fact that they don't even know how many employees they have in their sector, let alone how much they spend. It happened to us, let's say, as a state, that at the end of the term of office of this assembly, in the previous term of 2012, loans are raised and then they are collected in one place and then they come, then the Assembly of Votes and supports all the guarantees that all public enterprises took and this session costs approximately 1.4 billion euros in government debt. So it was practically the way it worked in Serbia's economy. What we have in one place right now, we know exactly what we're up against. If that's the picture of what the debts are, it's so big, and it just comes out in front of the citizens. Citizens must know the truth at all times, to be prepared for all that awaits them in the future. Why are we talking about this? Because all segments of society are affected by this crisis. What we should never forget, which is that in 2008, means a year after the economic crisis, after 2007, practically made a budget that was missed by about 20%, because the wrongly designed items about what the economic crisis would look like, especially in Serbia and the region itself. It's something that has practically led this whole region to start that car, which we're talking about now, not they've been going downhill since 2008, and now that car needs to be stopped in some way. They have been stopped by certain measures and by practical knowledge that the public must be familiar with the truth. When we talk about segments where we felt that even this government and this assembly majority were supposed to conjecture their economic policy, then we said it was agriculture and energy. There's a policy being attacked here that should make it look like an investment in agriculture. Energy has been attacked, but what Serbian citizens need to know is that agriculture will no longer, in the way it was financed, financed, but that only investment will be in infrastructure, which is very important, such as the irrigation system, such as equipment that will be given to farmers, which will be able to use it. When talking about subsidies, which have also been attacked, in the budget, if you look at 81 billion total subsidies as part of the budget, then about 10% of these subsidies go to the economy, and 40% of these subsidies go to agriculture. Therefore, this story of little investment in agriculture is not true, but what it wants to form and implement reform of that agrarian policy is precisely an investment in infrastructure, so that in some ways these investments will create investors' interest to invest and create certain types of public private partnerships in this area. And what makes it necessary for the state to invest its subsidies in social enterprises, is that as much as it can strengthen the sector, to keep what is really healthy, so that today, with the principle of concessions and public private partnerships tomorrow, indeed, as many of these companies can privatise and enter into a serious economic reform, but thus, in some way, stop any fall, be maintained and create conditions for the next three years to start some of their growth. What we have heard most about energy is the question of "Srbigas", large debts. Now we have the opportunity to do practical work by opening new infrastructure projects in some way reforming this entire public sector. The development of energy is not possible unless conditions are met and conditions are created, i.e. the environment in which the state will be able to act extremely responsibly, not only to investors, but also to its consumers. This means that the price of electricity is a social category and that story is otherwise known to the entire Western Balkans region and practically all the countries in the region, and they all know that if you go by increasing energy prices, you practically affect the budget of every man living in our country and they know it in Croatia, they know that in Montenegro, too, they know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's not something new. It is much easier to attack any reform or price increase, but it is very difficult to implement the real reform of this sector, for the simple reason that people who are really professionals in their profession and who have a lot to do, and when it comes to the moment when you need to streamline or repack certain employees, it is very difficult to assess who in which sector needs the most adequate way to make their full contribution. This is why the story of "Serbiagas" and not only "Serbiagas", but in general in public enterprises for which certain funds are allocated, very, how can I say, sensitive, sensitive, because if we wanted to see economically exclusively as the interest of the state, then we would say – sorry, but simply the state should in some way give up any guarantees, from any incentive and then come to simply having a disturbance in the work of the energy sector at all, and that would directly affect the consumers themselves. Therefore, in such areas it is necessary to be extremely responsible and to act in a manner that corresponds to all categories of society, but step by step. When we talk about the PIO fund, which is what we love most about talking about from one aspect and attacking why there's so much separation, I've been a little interested in what it's like to even manage the PIO Fund, which is the structure of the PIO Fund, and I don't think that more than half of the MPs are familiar with who the members of the board of directors of the PIO Fund are. He makes 21 members, of which the state has only two members appointed by the government. He has representatives of businessmen, has representatives of employers' associations, has representatives of both trade unions, has representatives of the pensioners' association and has two representatives of the government. The principle of chairing the board of directors of the PIO Fund is rotating every two years. Currently, the chairman of the PIO Fund is Mr. Orbovic, the union president, who directly affects the PIO Fund's policy. If the state wants to implement reforms, and the state is currently singleing out, the PIO Fund has about 600 billion dinars, out of which 42% of the countries fill that fund directly from the budget, and 58% are full of business entities through taxes and contributions that we pay. If the state really wants to reform the PIO Fund, then it needs its government representatives to let at the moment when they are to chair this Management Board, they need to implement certain reforms. And it takes one political consensus. It is not only necessary to attack certain policy options in order to implement the PIO Fund reform, but rather to create a principle of how it should look to fill the PIO Fund. We have one inherited policy as it seemed before and then all governments were automatically, no one wanted to mind the representatives on this Management Board, because it's very difficult to deal with all these problems, to get in the way of unions, employers, associations, and then we come into a situation where these employers live on fees from these boards, and not live in the real sector, or where these funds come from. Practically, this PIO fund becomes in some way an economic category, from which everyone somehow survives. Of course, it's not a good concept, and of course, over time, as problems have been inherited, these problems have always increased. They never came to a point where they needed to be solved in an economically sustainable way. Therefore, if the state wants to solve this problem, it must find a way and legal way, which should be brought here in the Serbian Parliament in one completely distinctive way, to make one consensus on all policy options, to make a decision on how to manage, because ultimately, PIO's property is the property of the state, because we are all responsible for such a situation in the state, and our fellow citizens, our grandparents and all those who are practically citizens of Serbia, who are financed from this PIO fund, and there are 1.7 million Serbian citizens. Practically, we need to find ways to do this and make it cost-effective and sustainable in every economic sense. That can't happen overnight. We need to make serious decisions about this, and we need to find a solution in an appropriate way. In the end, I would say something about the Fiscal Council and what the Fiscal Council said about this budget at all. The fiscal council is paraphrased and answers many topics in a very rational way, completely politically improbable, and many would like to put it in context and to both, supporting a particular political option. The fiscal council is a practical body composed of experts and to be heard in all these segments when it talks about what our country's economic policy should look like, but what the budget should look like. It speaks of the fact that all those measures that are adopted can be stronger, weaker, but that they produce certain economic effects, that is, results. Thus, the Fiscal Council believes that practically additional austerity measures are inevitable in these situations, that the path towards rationalisation of the public sector is inevitable and that subsidies and social benefits, which are part of the budget, should also always be greater, but they are aware that what is acceptable to society in implementing these measures, on the other hand, are always problems that are very difficult for all political options to tackle quite 100%. That is why he says an arrangement with the IMF is necessary, which is why they say easier borrowing is possible in 2014. Of course, we all know that there are good credit lines of the United Emirates, approximately three billion euros. Then, the Fiscal Council calls for responsibility, which I was already talking about when making statements in public. There are no easy solutions that we have heard in some discussions and that such easy solutions do not give effect over a short period of time. That's what the fiscal council says. Serbia's adjustment in the coming period will also lead to some changes. The changes over the next three years will also provide painful solutions. That's what the fiscal council says. What's main is to say that the Fiscal Council has no big problem with the reality that was projected by this budget. That's why all the political options here should really give a certain kind of praise to the minister who came up with such a budget proposal, because it's very difficult in some way that all the emotions that might be ruling in political life are driving us away and that one real picture that we all need together to stop. Of course, in Serbia's political life, it is much easier to make some sensational statements, which are short-term time limits. But what we need to say is that all Serbian citizens live on that budget and that these stories of taking money from doctors, professors, without giving it to anyone, that it goes into interest after that, they simply don't stand. First of all, a large part of the professors have received under 60,000 dinars. I'll tell you that in elementary schools teachers and teachers have fewer incomes, that the Belgrade university's docents have 60,000. So, all receipts of more than 60,000 dinars are included in regular and extraordinary Belgrade University professors, and therefore, in this budget, the general majority has practically come to the meeting that those receipts relating to projects that professors at the university have as one kind of giving, are not subject to certain savings, i.e. by subtracting from fees, or net income. All that is said here is towards the consolidation of public finances in this budget and all that we have seen is that certain results will not in any way be positive in some way that the citizens of Serbia will feel it now, but only in a year will we begin to see the results of these measures in that part that we will not be worse. It is important to say because we heard here yesterday in discussions that we will be getting worse and worse, that certain measures that the Serbian government brings are projecting a black future. Of course it does not stand, because infrastructure projects and investment in local self-government, which are practically through IPA funds introduced in this budget, show that a certain level of economic stability will still be maintained, that this level of economic stability in the future will give conditions that will trigger a certain economy through public private partnerships, through concessions, through the development of infrastructure projects that should not be ignored, because these funds will not be so small at all. Will certain countries of the East and the West put pressure on them? Of course, there are always different views of the East, the West, and the North, and of the various projects. It is important that Serbia participates in these projects. It is important that Serbia is interesting because of its geostrategic position, that it is interesting because of its potential, both energy and agricultural, and it is important that Serbia rationalises the general state administration and citizens of Serbia in terms of economic activities, that we must in some way reform and education systems and thus create new preconditions for future economic activities. One percent of economic growth is a small economic growth projected, but it's always better to design a little bit than projecting completely unrealistic and then entering certain asset systems that you can't control. That's what this government has shown through its responsible policy. Whether someone likes it or not, who used to live in a way that is completely unplanned, taking full credits without reason with high interest rates, it no longer exists in Serbia. There is now one final responsible policy, and such a policy is recognised by Serbian citizens. As a result, they also support these measures by the Government and, regardless of which segments of society will be at risk of saving, everyone together realizes that they must enter into the sector of economic activities in which the austerity measures must be implemented. Finally, it should be said that Serbia has shown through this budget that its citizens of Serbia do not want to lie. So it comes out extremely realistically in front of them and through such a realistic budget it will always have the support of all relevant entities, and Serbian citizens are always the ones to ask for an opinion. That is why this SNS bill will be supported in the voting day, and SNS MPs will actively participate in defining all those segments of this draft budget that should show what the advantages we are taking to creating Serbia's economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29427	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I hope to be able to interest you in something concrete and serious about this budget. All these days as long as the budget story goes on, it's still today, we've been listening to both deficits, and GDP, and the IMF, and inflation, the drop in costs, fiscal advice, truth, untruth, lies and everything else. I just want to ask you one simple thing – where are the citizens in the whole budget and does someone take care of the man in this entire budget? Does anyone think about them? Will we finally hear in this House for this term of office the so-called A retired mother who will speak one word about the pensioner's position in the next year and in the coming years? Are we going to hear again "Mister Neeta" or the historical not to the IMF, which we have listened to for so many years? Will the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social affairs address this assembly, I mean Mr. Krkobic, and say what will be the position of the people covered by his ministry? These are pensioners and these are the most socially endangered categories in this society. Is anyone gonna talk about citizens today or any other day? Will the standard of living after the measures that we adopted last week's budget and laws be better or worse next year? Will they live better or worse and will the citizens have to save again so that the state can spend? Is there also a country in the world that is rich, and the citizens of the poor or rich state that has a lot of good, wealthy individuals and that doesn't take every little bit out of the citizens' pockets to spend, to waste on the various unnecessary costs that this assembly has been talking about? You limited the growth of earnings next year, so the average pension will increase in Serbia by over 400 dinars, the average salary for over 600 dinars next year. Introduce VAT on basic life supplies, medicines, water and everything else. How do you expect an ordinary citizen to survive next year? Salaries will increase nominally, but realistically, if you take an inflation rate of 5.5%, how did you predict, with an increase in VAT on basic life supplies, on medicines, on what people have to buy daily, you may not have to buy a pair of shoes new, but everyone has to buy the medicine he needs, bread, water, milk, how do you think a regular man survives next year and survives next year? Has anyone in this House kept an eye on that? Have you in government thought about how a man will survive and if you have any solution to the situation? You don't or at least you can't see it from your budget. Since social security funds from the 2014 budget have been increased nominally, from 101 to 107 billion, by these 5.5% for projected inflation growth, which means that it will actually fall, how will these citizens survive, the most socially endangered categories? What about childcare? What about children's accessories? What about all the social groups that depend on this little help that the state is going to give them when the state reduces what they need to get again, and it increases VAT on those life supplies and on the drugs that they buy the most? Have you considered how many citizens by standards and the EU you are going to be at the poverty line next year for measures and for this budget? Is there any rational answer to give these citizens? No, I don't. You may have it, but we didn't hear it. Maybe you're saving it for some other discussion. What I'm trying to ask you is, are you in this country or are you in this government making a consensus with the IMF on the budget or should you make a consensus with the citizens, who are supposed to make changes, reforms, or save the country from the break-in they're going into and on which they stormed the train or pissed off Max in some crazy car? Do you need to make a consensus with them or with the IMF? I think citizens are the ones who bear in every variant the burden of anti-crisis measures or other measures you mention. I think citizens are the ones who, in any way, bear the burden of anti-crisis measures or whatever other measures you mention. You are constantly trying to avoid any debate about citizens, but you are already trying to continue to endanger their economic situation. It turns out, given what you're saying, that changes to the Labour Law are the basic problem of employment in Serbia. Just to amend the Labour Act, only to allow workers to lose their jobs as quickly as possible and the issue of employment in Serbia will be resolved immediately. I don't think that's the way and I don't think the Labour Act is a problem, I don't think the problem is in any other area, I think the problem is that it's a bad policy that's being run. We thought that from the budget of last year made by Mladjan Dinkic, the measures he was taking would change. Nothing's changed. And from the great, powerful stories, everything will come down to the same thing. We expect you to hear concrete measures, how will the citizens live, when they will live better, will they even live better, and when will you stop putting your hand in your pocket? The Democratic Party of Serbia cannot vote for this budget, because we think it is completely inadequate, bad and not in line with the needs of citizens, and we believe that you should make a consensus with the citizens of Serbia and with those who want good for this Serbia rather than with the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29429	MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29430	Respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Minister, the debate on the budget is the most interesting debate during the term of the MP. First of all, the most important law. To me, this is the ninth budget to be discussed. Mr. Secretary, this is the first, and I hope that after today's debate, we can still move some things to the better. Mr. Minister, Pasic told Serbs in time that they might be a small nation, but that there is no bigger than Carigrad to Vienna. So is our budget. He may be small, but we don't have a bigger one right now. Let me tell you something comforting. However you put together this budget and whoever created it in Serbia at this time would not be good and could not satisfy all our wishes and all our needs. I respect that you have tried between reality and desire to find and make an objective compromise. Certainly, as my respected colleague Velimir Stanojevic said in his discussion yesterday, this budget is the result of extortion and the result of an objectively difficult moment. Are we all going to talk about Serbian citizens? We're all talking about Serbian citizens and we're all talking about the citizens of Serbia, and we're all trying to find in this budget some of our own political points. Mr. Minister, when you were announced as the new minister in the government, I, as a professor, paid first attention to your education. At the time I was told, I would be a little plastic in that explanation because of the citizens of Serbia, that your education is really respectable, but that in our dialogue it looks like this. When you and I sit down and exchange opinions, it is your duty to leave with your opinion. I'm going as a professor, using a method of heruistic conversation today to try to convince you to leave here with a partial opinion, just one question and one problem, which I think we can solve. Namely, I'm an MP from Somboro. It's a city north of Serbia. It was a city that was a free royal city at a time when Belgrade was a Turkish cassaba and it was on the periphery of the empire. At the time Sombor had more residents than Belgrade, and until today he remained known in all European countries as a cultural capital, or as we like to call him in Bacakh, Serbian Heidelberg, certainly if Novi Sad is Serbian Athens, Sombor is Serbian Heidelberg. Our anthem, “God of Justice, ” was also created in that city. It's a city that has given seven academics, several patriarchs and we're proud of everything he represents. I return to the fact that you said this budget is an attempt to bring us closer to the EU. Here's a practical proposal, and I think you can see it right through the prism of the budget. Sombor is a town near the Hungarian border and we have a civilian crossing, which was mentioned yesterday by one of my young colleagues, also Somborac, a Sombor MP. We've got a border crossing on Backi Breg. It is a border crossing that reduces the road to the EU, therefore and practically, by more than 100 km. Since Europeans are very pragmatic and are very respectful of the cost and time and fuel they would certainly be happy to use and very often, this very border crossing for many economically justified reasons. Indeed, in all possible agreements, the Hungarian state has respected everything and, in turn, has done everything possible to ensure that the border crossing is reconstructed and that traffic is allowed in the manner that all EU rules prescribe it. There's no more than $35 million in funding. We have an amendment to this session. The amendment has been submitted by a colleague from the DS, so I would ask you, since there are four MPs here from Somboro, that this kind of vanity is because the amendment from the DS has been ignored. We will certainly support that amendment because it is in the interest of our city. We have to go back to our city and we will all talk about this amendment, because this really practical way to make something concrete in the budget and improve and allow our entire district, namely Serbia in a broader sense, to get one significant flow and one small but very respectable source of additional funding in this regard. That's what I wanted to practically propose in this budget. I wouldn't burden myself with some story of what's wrong with the budget, which is good, I told you at the beginning of my discussion that no one can make the budget so that it is ideal, that it is enough for all our needs, to satisfy all those that need to be satisfied. I respect when you said that he is, above all, realistic, that you have respected everything that we have to respect in Serbia at this moment, whether that is enough, we will see, but what we certainly expect you to do is to take some small minor steps, just by looking at amendments of MPs that are very concrete, which are very well-intentioned. I call on you to consider this amendment and really help a serious region and Serbia at all, to take this small step forward and make a big step, because the budget is not the funds that we have at the moment, the budget is the means we expect, and our needs exist already. So that's that gap that we're having a hard time keeping still, the year is long, and I respect that when you said you wouldn't allow budget rebalancing or at least you wouldn't let it easily. In any case, all your efforts are to admire and we expect you to keep your word until the end. We had different finance ministers here, we always crossed the spear, the finance ministers remembered in Serbia for a long time. They are not popular, but they are long remembered and certainly one of the finance ministers who deserves to be mentioned today is Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, who was an exceptional minister, who had always had a firm argument, in the gentlest way told the MPs, without any evil blood. It's a pleasure to remember all of us. Thank you for your patience for listening to me. Once again, I ask you to try to honor this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29431	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29432	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krstic, without any idea of me entering your private life, but the plans your parents had for you are plans that almost all parents have for their children, to be good students, to learn everything they need and to find a good job with that knowledge. The job of the state is to create such opportunities. I think with this budget in the beginning, you're destroying such parent plans and you're not doing anything to let young people live their lives. The job, Mr. Krstic, is a condition without which young people in this society have almost no chance. Without a job, there's no dignity. No job, no plans. No family. Without a job, Mr. Krstic, there is no future, and over 300,000 people from 16 to 30 years old today in Serbia have no job, and half a million parents are waiting first in the month to give allowance to their children who should have earned a long time ago. Young people in Serbia are disgusted with politics. What do they get? The education that prepares them for work rather than work, a government that understands profit, but doesn't understand the weight of a young unemployed man and a minister who only talk about young people when they're a problem. In this budget, there is almost no hope for young people, although nominally more, but there is less real money for education. Science is on its knees, and young scientists are on their borders. Compensation, layoffs on the terms of the ministries that should create an employment environment. For the Ministry of Youth and Sports, so much money that the minister can do is welcome escort athletes to the competition. In Serbia today, 50% of young people have no job. One year waiting for work creates a scar in earnings less than 10 to 20% which is difficult to make up for for a decade. That is also what the entire EU is talking about. The problem is even bigger when it's put into a wider social context. Then you see all the depth of the problem that brings youth unemployment and that's the cause of many other problems, so the higher unemployment, that's the huk with the stands louder, it's national patriotism stronger. It's a crowd at the border to Canada, America, Germany, Austria bigger. Over the years, 30,000 young people leave Serbia with their belly after bread, for a society that will give them a chance, not a contract in their hands, but a chance. Our young doctors are good Slovenians, Germans, Finns, only we are not good, what is the government's answer in the laws and budgets that you bring? You're hugging your shoulders. Young people, be sure we're not in your skin. Stop for young teachers, scientists, educators, teachers. Stop for young doctors, even though their colleagues retire. That's what we talked about on Friday, but I'll say it again - a bad measure. Do you know what that employment will be like when you add to all these new requirements, approvals, an administration that will shut up for months like it does most of the local demands? It looks like an emergency, a protection, everything that's made young people sick by now. It's not my idea to hate problems. The unemployment of young people is dark enough for themselves. My desire is to put your attention and the focus of your attention on this problem, the causes and the consequences of our society. There is no assumption of long-term development, as long as we do not see in the budget that education is a priority rather than a promotional one. There is no tax reform and measures of the Ministry of Economy that can put Serbia on its feet until education comes first. The unemployment of young people begins with poor education. It continues by insisting on measures that do not produce any results and strategies that collect dust and end with a government that does not understand the weight of a problem carried by a young and unemployed man. You're in government, your boss, I think he was talking about the Singapore development model, the Shanghai development model. And they have long begun to invest enormously in education. Poland, a country that has passed through the transition very successfully. The primary and secondary school students at the PISA test are at the very top of the list. If there's any dilemma about where the money should be invested, I don't have it. Our education produces unemployment. Serbia's education system produces unemployment. We educate young people for 136 professions that do not exist on the market. They're not deficits, they don't exist in the job cipher. Young people who are educated abroad like you and are returning to our country cannot help because they have a problem with the nosing of a diploma. It takes us five years to adopt a national qualification framework and competence that needs to be brought into line with the market's study and teaching programmes. New times carry new generations. New generations require rapid reforms, rapid changes. The government is still stuck in its own bickering, intrigues and plots. The generations of young people suffer. We'll be eaten by time. This budget does not carry the changes Serbia needs to make. First of all, I think about education and I think about the problem of youth unemployment. The job of our Parliamentarians here in the Assembly is to regulate our society by law. It's our job to talk to citizens, analyze social problems, react and make their lives easier, not harder. This, Mr. Krstic, is your first budget, the fourth of this government. I believe that for this short time as a minister, you have become aware of the weight of this political environment in which you work and that the knowledge you undoubtedly have is only one part, and that it is actually the ability to respond to the pressures and blackmails of people sitting with you in government is one big part that you haven't resisted either. According to the Fiscal Council, you discussed a budget with them in October. You sent a second, quite different draft budget to the assembly procedure on November 2nd. In December, you changed your own budget. And then we here in parliament are going to adopt a whole third budget. With both first and second and third budgets, young and unemployed people don't stand a chance. So that Serbia would not be where it is, that a young and unemployed man would not be where he is, put for the same hundred youth and sports ministers who are legally driving the issue of youth unemployment, the minister of education who holds the key to the country's long-term development, the minister of economy, to open the topic of youth unemployment and education, in the context of employment. The whole of Europe is talking about it. We're the only ones who keep quiet. At least show concern, at least interest. We can support something like that. But a budget that doesn't stand a chance for young and unemployed people, we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29433	Minister Krstic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29434	Youth unemployment is very high and it's very bad. Good of you to point that out. However, the fact that this makes it even worse is that this case is already good three, four, if not for many years. We're on a brain drain last year, at the end of 2012, according to polls and analyses, I think it's the World Bank or some international organisation that's doing it in parallel, third from the back, I think. That's really bad. I think our education system should change and adapt to market economy, an economy in which the private sector will meet the real needs of the market, probably a large part of the export market. The first step in this direction is exactly what has remained in the last few years, and as far as education is concerned probably much longer, which is public sector reform, starting with the number, evaluation and method of paying teachers, teachers and others to the purpose of the different institutions in that system, and in the extreme line to introducing national tests and adapting programmes, including these university ones, which you talked about in the area of nostrification of diplomas. I cannot disagree with that, and I think that this budget, or fiscal strategy, begins with this government body that will start in terms of analysis and with public sector reform is the first concrete move in that direction, after several years of rest. As far as this finding is concerned, which is unrelated to this part of the story that was the center of your exposure, which is the problem that we plan to work on, it's simply not true that this is the third budget and it's different. It's identical and it's something that's precedentd to what was carried out in October, as far as we discussed last week, is identical to what we submitted on November 1st, not November 2nd. No fundamental change has been made to amendments, especially in the department you spoke of, regarding education as such. So I just can't answer that. I'll take the opportunity to respond to some other comments that were since I didn't answer. The question of multiple salaries, wages and pensions and everything else will be resolved by the middle of next year and will not be resolved on individual examples, demagogy, but will be solved by system solutions, system solutions that are not over their knees and will not mutilate any state institutions. How is this budget closer to the EU? It is closer by the fact that, like all other EU budgets, it depicts a real situation on the ground and not some fiction and is the basis for this, and that it will inevitably be one of the rappers, if not the criteria for approaching the EU, the starting basis for reducing the fiscal deficit, i.e. introducing order into public finances. That's something we've already opened through these bilateral screenings, the first from the finance ministry. This, in turn, is not a budget for the EU or made for the IMF, nor was the IMF mission in respect of the 2014 budget, but for 2013, as I made it clear. This budget has been made for citizens and has been made with citizens, along with consultations with all parliamentary groups as representatives of citizens, which is the same exception compared to earlier. The game is the case that, since we are, unfortunately, the fact that we are presenting reality and showing the situation as it is, it is the custom of everyone, not only to the IMF, but, in my conversations, and with representatives of the Russian Ministry of Finance and many others, I have been told – the time has come when you have to clean the house, to seduce order into public finances. And that's what we do. We've looked those citizens in the eye. Everyone who thinks well of Serbia, I think they must welcome it as a good and positive act. As far as robbery privatisations are concerned, that's not how I talked about it, so I'm gonna leave it. I hope I answered that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29435	Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29436	Thank you. The brain drain is a major problem for Serbia, and in the last many years, a large number of educated, professional young people have been lost. The main problem and reason why people go away is a weak economy and this weak economy does not create jobs that young people need to get into their careers and to be able to achieve the desires and aspirations they have. In the budget, since we have recognised this problem as a major problem, we have allocated four billion dinars to create a "capital" industry in Serbia, which is about to create preconditions for the development of companies, i.e. investment in companies that have innovative projects, which will mainly employ our young, professional people. This "venture capital" industry should invest in the capital of enterprises. When you have innovative projects from the IT area, but not only information technologies but also other industries, you usually lose money in the first few years to make money afterwards. Crediting, lending that such companies must repay, is not a way to support such projects, i.e. to build a good innovative industry. That is why these “venture capital” funds are needed. We are already talking to a number of funds that should be launched in Serbia. These would be private funds in which private investors invest their money, while the state from the budget co-invests with private investors and gives between 20% and 40% of capital. The industry should attract about 100m euros for innovative projects and for the employment of our young people, educated professionals and give them a chance for the future. I think it will be a major turning point for both young people's employment and the launch of a new cycle in general and the awakening of optimism that there is a future in Serbia as well. The new project was done somewhere along the model of Israeli models that proved to be extremely successful and we expect to realize it in 2014, that it will be a significant driver and motivator to prevent further brain drains and that these people begin to get a chance in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29437	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29438	Your Honor, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. You may not have paid attention, but I think the dignity of the Assembly has been violated, with all due respect to my previous speaker, my colleague, whom I greatly appreciate and respect as a young man, but for everything he's been asking the ministers, I think he should have asked questions to his fellow sitting next to him, who is heartily counseling him. I think that's where we should look for the main culprits for this, where our country is in a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29439	Do you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29440	I think the dignity of the MPs here who we have to listen to has been injured, trying to banish the culprits in charge and responsible for this, and the dignity of all those workers who are on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29441	Please don't make this a replica. Mr. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29442	Let's get back to the subject. You two, Mr. Krstic and Mr. Radulovic, have been announced in Serbia as bearers of change, as someone who should set Serbia in the long term towards development. There is no long-term development with 4.5% of GDP for education, no long-term development with 25 euros per scientist per month, no long-term development as long as we educate hundreds of textile technicians annually, and that the textile industry almost does not exist. What do we do when we get that public sector fixed up? What about these technicians for nothing? The cause is on the other side. That's what I was talking about. In your budget, you don't solve the cause of the problem. In the Ministry of Youth and Sports, money for some research, for strategies, each of the following strategy starts with the words – that the previous one did not produce the same results. That doesn't solve the problem. The facts are very inexorable. In that budget you sent on November 1st, zero dinars for active employment measures. Is it true or isn't it? So then you changed the budget and put two billion into the budget. I'm talking about the essence. I'm talking about our education producing unemployment. I'm talking about our education not communicating with the economy. I'm talking about the unemployment of young people being a problem for themselves and asking for greater attention, and there's nothing in the budget and there's no chance for young people. That was my discussion about the problem. We're finding facts and we're not solving anything. The problem has come to this point that there's no going back. We have to solve it. The whole of Europe has stood up, and we are the only ones who remain silent and stop problems. Bring the Minister of Education, the Minister of Business is here, bring the Minister of Youth and Sports, open the topic, show interest. For that we will give support... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... But for a budget that doesn't stand a chance for young people, we can't give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29443	Minister Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29444	Once again, the budget has significant resources aimed at creating healthy preconditions in order to employ young people. Making money into social programs is something that hasn't given us any results in years. We need a healthy system and healthy jobs. Significant money in the budget is foreseen for this, significant money is foreseen for the resolution and restructuring and restructuring of the entire sector, which has actually brought the country back. Of course, we all wish we could change everything overnight. Unfortunately, it can't. We're trying to do what's real, and I think we're attacking exactly the causes, not the consequences. The bottom line of our problem is the collapse of economy and economy. The years have passed, the great desolation, we inherited the condition as it is and we are looking for the best way to get out of the problem we are in, and I think we've found the measure. The year 2014 will be a difficult year, in which these significant structural changes will take place that will put us on the right path, so that in 2015 we begin to feel better. I repeat, as regards young people, especially professional young people, we have allocated considerable resources in the budget, which are about to create a healthy part of the economy that will employ these young people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29445	The word is made by the People's MP Slavica Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29446	President-in-Office, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the planned funding from the Republic's budget for the payment of pension insurance rights in 2014 amounts to 256.10 billion dinars. The participation of these transfers from the Republic's budget in the total revenue and revenue of the Fund in 2014 is 42.21%. Transfers consist of grants from the budget on behalf of the missing funds for payment of PIO allowances of 229,30 billion dinars, which account for 37,79 funds and transfers on behalf of traineeships under special regulations and the difference to the lowest pension of 26.80 billion dinars, with a participation of 4.42%. The government's measures, both by limiting pension growth and by increasing the contribution rate for PIO, have significantly reduced the share of budget transfers to fund financing from around 49% of 2012 to the current 42%. In order to improve the financing structure of the PIO, the Working Group, which was formed by the Fund's Management Board, has made proposals for short-term measures to enable the Fund's financial sustainability to improve and give a more realistic picture of the financing of the pension-inhabited insurance system. Transfer of the pensioner's health financing obligation to the Republic's budget, whose participation in the total expenditure of the Fund is 10.4%, transfer of the obligation to finance compensation for other people's care and assistance, physical damage and disability benefits, persons with disabilities in the second and third categories, to the social protection system. This would, of course, involve a proposal to change legal solutions. These measures in the case of the 2014 plan would reduce the total expenditure and expenditure of the Fund by 81.46 billion dinars, meaning – from 606,70 billion to 525.24 billion dinars. The share of transfers from the Republic's budget would be reduced to 33.25%, so clean donations for missing funds from 37.79 to 28.71%. Since several times past and some earlier days have mentioned the Management Board as one of the Fund's managing bodies, because there is the Supervisory Board, there is also the Director of the Fund, I want to say the following. Article 155 The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act prescribes how and how a board of directors is formed, which is not a phantom board of directors, but a board of directors established in accordance with the law and says that it has 21 members, by seven representatives of insurance companies, employers and rights users. Member of the 160th said the board of directors submitted a report on the work and financial operations to the Serbian government no later than a month after the decision on the final account was made. As far as the Fund's assets are concerned, the Fund's assets are not government property. The Fund has invested in many state and other projects and competent ministries and the government of Serbia should help the PIO Fund to jointly find ways to solve problems, whether by special law or otherwise, to place the Fund's assets under the auspices of the Fund. The fund is the largest fund in the country and the largest institution in our country. Therefore, it will function in the best way when long-term measures are achieved, which means creating an incentive, business and social environment, reducing the grey economy, effective employment policy, effective fiscal policy, sustainable policy, protection of labour and reducing public spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29447	Thank you. The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29448	Mr. President, respected ministers, the discussion of yesterday's budget is somehow directed towards a solution that tells us everything. An MP who says the budget is real as if he said everything and as if all real problems had been solved economically in Serbia. Those who do not think that he is real, but that he is unreal, then they enter into a story, who is guilty and what is guilty? Following the budget and the budget debate, we have not come to the conclusion that this budget solves the real problems of our citizens in Serbia. Given my very short time, I will deal with only one problem that is most represented in all homes and in all families in Serbia, which is the problem of unemployment. It is measured by a percentage of 20 to 30%, depending on who measures, and in number it comes from 800 to a million people. The laws that preceded the budget, which were the condition that this budget as a realistic-unreal device, were banned, made it impossible for public sector employment over the next two years. Now, if we could imagine the situation for us MPs or our MP clubs to be approached by two young people, who, by interest, are one doctor, and one professor, say, come on, gentlemen of the Parliament, explain to us when we're going to get a job, how and how we're going to start our lives, we'd probably tell the doctor – go to private entrepreneurship, getting a hint of everything that's written in the budget, so he's dealing with, I don't know, playing games. What would we tell the professor? That he deals with a cosmetic salon. The point of the problem is that in the family, young people don't see when they're going to get a job, and the older ones who are somewhere between five and 10 years old, they're going to need to retire and they're afraid they're going to lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29449	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. I will give the word to Mrs Grubeshic, according to the Rules of Procedure, until you determine what is wrong with the card. Here you go, Mrs. Grubeshic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29450	I appeal to a member of 101 who says that the National Assembly president can interrupt the National Assembly session to hold a new session, under the obligation to explain the interruption. I don't know if you know what's going on outside the National Assembly. In front of the National Assembly are workers, unions, blocking the National Assembly, unable to approach or exit. They protest the announced adoption of labour laws. Please inform us, you are required to inform us what is going on and around the National Assembly building, so that we can function here normally. That is no wonder, because there is no dialogue with union representatives and workers' representatives in the right way. Here the ease of layoffs has been declared a systemic virtue, and the flexibility of work and workplace has become a new mantra. I ask you that together, as much as we can, we have an impact on solving this problem, especially if the labour law is not done by the ministry that is responsible, to whom it is in the job description.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29451	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when the law under discussion or what the public is interested in comes to the general procedure of the National Assembly, we are only from that moment on, we as the National Assembly can give our own judgment on it. So we can't talk about a law that's in some draft because the National Assembly hasn't been officially informed about it. Of course, I've been informed there's a protest going on. The protest is being held, these people will be in a short time in front of the National Assembly, then continuing their protest further towards the government building. Otherwise, the National Assembly is on one side only, let me say, there are protesters, on the other hand it's completely open and completely normal. Of course we advocate that every social dialogue should be discussed with the people and with the citizens and with the workers, which the National Assembly through its resolution committees and the activities of the MPs does, so I do not see the need to interrupt this session. After all, the budget is very important for all citizens of Serbia, for all those living in our country. We're going back to work. The word has a People's MP, Mr. Derrett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29452	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the subject of education has been opened because it is a key topic that I wanted to talk about and it is a consequence of the fact that I understand that this budget has been extorted, but that I am concerned that it does not actually offer any vision of the future and that you see it best in the way that education is treated in this budget. You will say that at this point that part of the budget increased in relation to the rebalanced budget last year, but unfortunately, the cost structure remained absolutely the same, and it does not indicate anywhere the need for radical reform of the education system, on the contrary, it is in many ways retrograde, in many ways, actually blocking the real development of education. I'll give you a little example. To support secondary theological education, more is given to the Commission for the Monitoring and Assessment of the Success of Education. For theological secondary and higher education is given more than for the Commission for the Development of Education and Education in Serbia. I know that we hope that God will help us get out of this crisis, but I think that it will do much more and more successfully the knowledge that young people will receive. In the original version of the budget and in general the laws that have been passed, it was envisaged, among other things, to stop employment for two years in both the fields of education and science, education, higher education and science. KONUS, meaning the Serbian University Rectors' Association has requested a meeting with the Education Committee. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, only no one from the ruling coalition is present except for the honorable exception of one. And we weren't able to make decisions but just make recommendations that were happily adopted, so now that part has been changed in laws, so teaching staff, research staff, high school can be employed, depending on the needs of the next two years. Unfortunately, this does not apply to other levels of education. In primary, secondary and preschool, you still won't be able to hire new quality people, which means young people, among other things. When it comes to the fact that it's very difficult to nostifify diplomas because we're suffering allegedly because of the great features of brains, and I think the opposite thing is, there are some things that need to be explained. Corporations have no problem with the admission of students returning from abroad because they are not looking for a nostriched degree. Nostricted diploma is wanted by state institutions, including universities and public institutions. So, our public sector, our country defends itself against new knowledge and from new qualifications, not corporations that, of course, always employ those who are qualified for a job that they need to do. It is something that needs to be changed and it should be seen in some way in the budget that is proposed and not seen. The budget proposed for education is simply one set of different pay presentations i.e. contributions made to employees. Whether they are treated as salaries, whether they are treated as specialised services, that is a second question, but in any case a change in budget that is impossible to implement through amendments because the education budget is completely non-transparent, because income is, i.e. The expenditure shown so you don't actually know the relationship. Where are they, for example, in the budget for the procurement of materials for scientific projects? Whoever finds them from me gets all the credit. Because when you talk to people in science, they talk about the necessity of hiring young people and about not having the material to implement their projects. So all the changes you're expecting are possible the moment we have the qualified workforce. With such a system of education, there will be no one to work in this new economy and in these new relationships that you want to establish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29453	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29454	I can't defend our education system, nor will I try to do it now, as I won't defend that we haven't fully implemented the programming budget because it's our intention to do next year to introduce additional transparency. What I'm trying to say is that we are in this budget for 2014 predicting the increase and so on. material costs for science compared to this year which, of course, is not enough. The CEB's science credit that has been blocked by defacto all this year has been on the move and will be paid if not these since January of next year, which is also going for those purposes and purposes. You yourself said that, on that committee you mentioned, I think he was also Minister of Education and Science, I personally couldn't come, but he was my first secretary of state on that committee. After that committee and reviewing the situation, passing through appropriate laws and in collaboration with everyone and we have made this amendment regarding employment at high school institutions, as far as scientists and researchers are concerned. So I just want to point out those facts that we've made these little shifts that we've made, and that's the intention of changing these other things you've pointed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29455	The word has Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29456	I'd just like to fill in the Minister on the issue of science, that is, science funding. We see that through these resources that we have allocated to support innovation and innovative companies that our scientific institutions are slowly involved in this process, that with their innovations and things they do they enter the market and that there is a part of the market that is dedicated to these and such projects and companies. These four billion we've separated are just about that part. We want to achieve the result we need by market mechanisms without repeating what Minister Krstic has already said about the issue of reforming the entire education system which I fully support.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29457	Milenko Deretta, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29458	I'm glad you won't defend the education system because it's impossible to defend it. That's very wise, you shouldn't defend what you can't defend. But on the other hand, I expect you to really put it as a priority for this government because it's a long-term investment. You're talking about encouraging scientific work. Who will be the people who will be able to implement these scientific projects? Whether they're going to be here or somewhere out of the country, because they don't have the conditions to start doing what they need for scientific work. That's the first one. Secondly, I have to say that behind this whole action, in my opinion, there is one, I would say, long-term policy that actually intends to weaken state universities and that this kind of incentive, so to say, creating uncertainty among high school science and other staff, directs them to private universities. The last pistachios, where we passed as disastrously as we've been through, have shown the following. Where the state controls education in a way designed in the long term, such as Finland, Finland was the first European country after five Asians to show the best results at the moment, Sweden has suffered a major decline. Because she introduced a large percentage of private education at all levels. There's one more thing I have to say about brain drains. I've heard directly from one of the people who's still at the Ministry of Education that the brain drain is totally fine, because they send a lot of funds from abroad and that's very important for our budget. So, you can disagree with that, of course, I disagree with that, but it's said and it's somewhere present, I think in the minds of those who block the return of these people from abroad to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29459	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29460	That's far from the government's intention or the government's policy. Who said that I really don't know, but it's just not like that. Also, this section around the university, to move everything to private, is nowhere in the strategy, nor is it the government's intention. She's a big bum and the question of education and economy is coke and egg, which is older. So it's going to have to be some iterative process of raising each other. We felt that we could move quickly through the budget in the business area, which would then pull the educational part and then have to do in 2014 and 2015 and in the coming years to correct the system in order to get where we needed to come. We fully understand the need to develop education, but we are so deep in the hole right now, because of years of neglect towards the area. We have now found a mechanism that I think will give us a great initial chapel that, that is, the process, its progress and progress, so that this part of education, first through reform of the system, will continue to feed one another. As you grow an economic part, you also need an education to monitor it, and then it enhances the effects of positive society.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29461	Mr. Derrett has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29462	I don't think there's any science that can solve the question of coke and eggs, so neither can we here for sure. What I'd like to say is that reform cannot be implemented unless the institutions change. The minister has been changed, but I have to say that the Ministry has remained equally closed to any idea of change. And with the budget, as planned, those who need to initiate this, the Education and Educational Development Institute, the Quality Control Institute, are back on track. So we're not going to measure the knowledge we're giving, we're not going to properly evaluate it. We have, of course, a pay issue, that's already being talked about here for teaching staff, etc., but it all really ignores what is the goal of education. And that is the education of young, qualified personnel who are sufficiently flexible in their knowledge, who know that they recognize, who know new technologies, who can quickly adapt to the rapid changes that we have to make. I know that education reform isn't possible in a year or two, but it has to start. There are no items in this budget, other than those four billion for science, conditionally speaking, which is really saying – this is our priority. Let's change education so someone has to use those four billion you're talking about and start a business. I think somewhere, though, that knowledge is what drives the economy, not the economy to influence knowledge in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29463	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. MILLET SUPPORT: Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SNS, I would like to refer to several items. In two sections, more specifically, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health. Before I go to these segments that I think are in my area of interest, so that I can contribute more to them in the debate, I would refer to this global budget expenditure table which is very nice and since it's a thousand billion, it can talk a lot about just one change of these expenditures, for those who are potentially interested in getting into it, means a billion dinars. So a very big interest is in those who need to be calmed down with butter. The fact is that nearly two-thirds of the budget goes to various social contributions, salaries and transfer funds, more than that, almost two-thirds. It is quite understandable that attention should be paid to the need for those who have received budgets with them and to be properly available. In part of the general story, I'd like to ask a question, maybe produce the necessary comment, and about the fact that the transfer funds were donated to different cities. Of course, there are legal criteria. My question is whether they might be properly pushed, because the law hasn't been in force for so long, maybe the second time in the budget we're making those decisions, and the fact that, let's say, the Kragujevac went the way it went. It's the town I belong to. I'm going to go a little bit local, and by the rule of law, the Assembly shouldn't do it, but it should cover the obligations and equality of participants in the budget. On the one hand, compared to much smaller cities, is he in the category, second, third, first, is it because "Fiat", where 2,500 people work... That's 1% of the total population. He's pulling up the city so much he's getting so little transfer funds. That's an important question for Koseric as well. Did the statistics, which are applied in the assessment of income from that territory, and the municipality, receive only 43 million according to this proposal. Really small funds. It is that "Titan" draws, in proportion to the number of employees, and by the number of persons who have paid, large incomes, but it is still a small number of people who work in relation to the entire municipality. Is this statistical processing of the Republic Bureau of Statistics or the Ministry of Finance or something else or something in between supposed to help to perhaps be more correct than usual, because it's hard to understand that Novi Sad is less developed than Kragujevac and has twice as much resources, and that so many Alexines are below all criteria, or, say, Kruševac has more resources than Kragujevac in this distribution? It did not "Fiat" bring so many new jobs, and it challenged city administration decisions to eliminate many budgetary inflows for the next 10 years, to make a favourable financing environment and to bring in a foreign partner. So I think we should think about it. I don't think there was a technical error in the work, I don't think that's possible, but if the criteria are valid. Finally, everything needs to be checked, so why not the criteria of the law. Otherwise, we learned to change what doesn't work. I'd move on to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. They won more this year than last year, about 188 billion dinars. It's distributed to classic budget users. What I would like to say in this part of this part, the editing, the control of the education system and everything else, is that it's very important to actually carry out control of what is being spent in different positions, primarily through different projects and different programs. That applies to both this and the Ministry of Health. The primary education of 75, nearly 76 billion dinars, of which 2-3 billion goes to preschool and really covers a good deal of significant investments. There is a significant increase in training, professional training of employees. I guess this is about trying to go in a better quality way of education, contributing to quality, significantly giving funds to the student competition, improving funds or increasing the resources that are dedicated to construction, school infrastructure and assistance. In secondary education, funds are higher than they were, about billions are totaled for this year. It is significantly given for students' competitions, and perhaps the question should be asked, almost 16 million go from that position to working with talented, gifted students, do they really engage institutions and follow the flow of money for those who are obliged to help these children, to show their gift and talent? It's not about the general section, when it's spoken at the beginning of this sector, as it's listed in the budget... It is not the correct fact that, for example, an institution as important as Vinca cannot be included in an institution that will be used to promote science. Maybe someone out there can do something. Why is it that in the strategy we define ourselves to create a science promotion centre, when, as is projected, close to 40m euros will cost to create this cosmic miracle and then equipment? Wasn't it in a building sense that we could move the center, if we wanted it to act integrally for all of Serbia, and not every city for itself to promote science, to do so in many empty spaces that exist in the space, which already exist, which may not be conditioned until the end, but to fix, to do so. When we talk about Vinci alone, I don't see, apart from project funding, whether enough is taken care of by this higher education and scientific institution that cherishes a truly sophisticated chamber? As far as the public knows, there is a problem there and to establish a specific administration, to set up a director. Is there any best or enough good co-operation with the President of the Management Board and the Scientific Council, therefore, two institutions that operate the fate of teachers and employees and scientists working there? There were talks about a project concerning Vince, that the programme concerning Tesla and the accelerator should have been converted, renamed in another way. This was a strong basis for maintenance and fundamental and maintenance, of course, research that has pragmatic, practical use in health care, diagnostics and treatment. Of course, the scientific research segment, it was certainly worth orderly size how much we're going to give to just do that miracle in New Belgrade, where the children will come back to learn, to understand that it's nice to do science. They won't be able to conduct scientific experiments here. They have somewhere to work, finally, in Serbia and on that plan. In secondary education, I would like to possibly praise the fact that a lot of thought was made about this student standard, the student standard, about their homes, about improving infrastructure, but also about asking questions - and what about the student standard? That's, of course, double the amount. For the public, when you add up the student and student standards, that's just as much as the entire health ministry gets, about 12, 13 billion. Are these children really going to get from that same ministry the right to insurance and these students to treatment, health insurance, etc.? They'll use those rights on that basis. It's gone so far. But why am I asking? It's quite nice when it says here that the quality of the food will improve, the conditions of the accommodation, that it will go to renovations. Will those who follow from the ministry be able to be interested to the end, to check whether at that time the funds that go may have been used to open some other facilities? Do these student centres, the institutions of the student standard, open up their daughters, introduce their daughters to colleges, hospitals, and then enter the market without competition, because, by making an internal contract with an institution that is also financed by the budget? I would like to ask a question within the Ministry of Health, with projects that I cannot dispute should exist, a general remark on whether within the projects that exist in the Ministry of Health we can transfer from direct project financing from the Ministry of Health to the Institute of Health, especially because he has a camera that can do this? Themes that he, the information he needs to get, will be done by working groups, for example, chronic, renal insufficiency, diagnostics, frequency, frequency project, diabetes mellitus, rheumatism frequency projects, and the frequency of this or that. Is this all to be put on an institution that is functionally, operationally powerful and competent, because it has its own facilities in all the regions in Serbia and huge funds, close to 900 billion Batut and other public health institutions in Serbia, to carry out these statistical research, not to go on project financing? A lot of projects inside the health care sector have been launched. Some are even duplicated, and some are completely unclear, ad hoc created, such as the prevention of West Nile disease, the prevention of infections that occur in the form of tick fever. So, as he realized, how close it was to the ministry to gain influence, that his or a group of these people were pushing the project into project financing. It's not, of course, all about large funds, about a million, a million and a half, two, about eight, 10, 12 or 13 million. The crown of all is that many of these projects include Batut, his experts, together with the health ministry people, to control how the project is implemented. We are not aware, some science projects, 17m euros have long been defined to equip IT technology with computers, Serbia equipment schools and wherever necessary. How did this project end? How long has he been escorted? Are all the money used for that? Should we open these same enquiries with these, conditionalally speaking, small or large objects that we need to talk about today in Serbia? In practical application, many of the projects that are implemented mean for a doctor a paper format A4, on which questions are asked, less or more over, on which the doctor general practices go and check whether the patient has this and that disease. Are we sinful to other diseases? Let's get the disease register, get the code book, and make some specific identification guide for every disease. When you recognize it, it's so-called. Scanning, calling people on voter lists. So is this dil system that we have leading us to keep going in some unusual way of spending money? That's not a question for this furniture sitting here. It is a question of innovation, the innovative functioning of the Ministry of Health. One of these programs is, for example, a direct observation of tuberculosis, the treatment of this disorder. In a conversation with colleagues who do so, this doc program implies exhausting meetings of practitioners, experts, secondary and tertiary healthcare professionals, who go to listen to about tuberculosis, something they passed, which they know by describing their daily activities. When you look at whether the cost of treatment is what it's like for that so-called. The World Health Programme predicts who's carrying it? He's carrying the Fund. Any tuberculosis, drugs for another line in resistant forms? There isn't. Not the group that draws several dozenm euros in its project to define means of treatment for Ozren those who have resistant forms of tuberculosis. So these projects have their drawbacks. There is the impression that sometimes they are made according to the image and part of a group of interested people, so it is no wonder that some prominent names leave these projects, come out of such projects, and leave the need for those from the interior, doctors, to simply push for such improvements to go and to do something and show it as an innovative activity. The final message is to consider the shares by which the funds are spent, which has been allocated to the health care budget, because the most important part of improving the conditions and quality of work is relatively small in this, and it refers to the equipment of institutions in secondary, tertiary and primary health care. Staff equipment, there should be a pool of money, and epidemiology, statistical data, give Batutu to work and a little bit of serious need for every possible diagnosis to be carried out through some sort of screening program and get final epidemiological data, I don't know who they're sending to, and they should end up in Batut and show it in their white book for all of Serbia, and then, according to their offices, every region, every clinic, so that everyone knows what they've been doing, as long as they've come and how important it is for budget projections in this segment. Thank you. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29465	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Budget Law is the most important law in a year. That's what I think we all agree on here. A large number of Serbian citizens do not know why the Budget Law is so important. But they all know that since New Year's Eve, everyone will absolutely pay for more milk, bread, medicines and basic provisions of life. I who move in Serbia every day in different places, from that people or from one part of the people, I get messages that this bill on the budget this year and how it is made is pretty far apart, which means it's not even completely fair when it comes to saving, but it gives some vision and hope that it will be in 2014, 2015 and 2016, so people don't trust us all anymore. Why isn't he just? It's true that we all pay VAT the same. It is true that doctors, teachers and all those who receive salaries of over 60,000 dinars are taxed. It is not the same when the price of milk is increased to a pensioner who receives 15,000 pensions and when the prices of bread are increased and when it is increased to the directors of public enterprises who continue to pay are not limited. At one point, I was sitting in the government. I respect the fact that ministers' salaries haven't been growing in a few years. I've been receiving what you're receiving, too. But did you have the courage to take off your salaries to the directors of public enterprises and say -- wait, not only are we going to tax you, but we're going to take off your salaries on those he has, say, prime minister? Today, I listen to TV that the directors of public enterprises continue to receive salaries of 300,000 and 400,000 dinars, and I do not accept your explanation as it says - we cannot do without such experts. Because we easily give up an expert, a young doctor who will go to Germany, because one doctor who receives 70,000 dinars of wages is subject to taxation, subject to additional separations, and one who receives 400,000 not, knowing that he can go abroad more easily than the one who currently manages large public treasures. On the other hand, it's easy for us to give up the budgets of local self-government. That's far from Belgrade, that doesn't hurt. Who hurts that Kragujevac has 152 million less, except for Poscuca, who is from Kragujevac and Saša Milenić, who is from Kragujevac? Who hurts because most of the municipalities of the devastated have fewer budgets, so they can't make a simple path, nor subsidize the purchase of a container, which, Minister, I was already talking about? Who does it hurt that we take two billion to local self-government, but at the same time we add little to the Foreign Ministry, even though our headlines are full of what money is spent on? Neither the Ministry of Defense nor the Ministry of Police, let's not say it's correct, they're our colleagues, we can't cut their budgets, but local self-government can, they're far from the eyes, and they're rich and far from the heart. Why do I say people don't see perspective? Well, I heard how the incentives for opening new jobs are bad. Everything is a living mud, everything has gone to the devil in the previous period and no longer needs to encourage the opening of a Serbian company. We'll fix that with an economic environment. Well, tell those in Babusnica how we're going to encourage domestic economy and fix the economic environment, when their last bank left Babusnica a few days ago, so they have nowhere to do any transaction, but they need five liters of fuel and two hours to go to Pirot and finish what they need. Without new investments, there's no hope for the unemployed. Without incentives for investment, there is no hope that those who will lose their jobs because they have or have no personal cards in the following year, which regardless of their ID cards, 20,000, in your words, will go to the street. There is no hope for them, without incentives to open large companies that will hire and those who have branded names and competitive products for the world market, but who also have a market, which also have technology, which have the opportunity to employ more people. There is no country's progress without additional incentives for agriculture, and that doesn't hurt. The peasants don't hurt. Three billion is less in the agricultural budget. That's why people don't believe this kind of policy gives hope for a better tomorrow, and that's why they tell me when I meet them -- this budget is bad. Perhaps this budget is not a credential of the IMF's size and is not tailored to the EU's scale, but it is certainly not Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29466	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29467	So, I don't know if you understand? And one who earns 70,000 and one who earns 400,000 and works in the public sector is taxed. Those who earn up to 100,000 are taxed 20%, between 60,000 and 100,000, and more than 100,000 25%, so someone who earns 400,000 dinars pays a lot more, or will have a much lower salary, proportionally speaking, than someone who earns 70,000, so we addressed the entire public sector without discrimination. As for the locale, which was not a practice in previous years and transfers to local self-government, we actually applied a formula that is by law, to calculate how much and which local self-government should transfer funds to the name of regular transfers. That wasn't the case in years ago. We didn't favour any local self-government in this year's draft of this budget bill because there's someone in it or because we expect someone to get more or less votes, so it should be clear to everyone. When you ask who hurts, so I think all citizens now are in pain just because we haven't been responsible for the previous laws in the budget. This budget law can't be the brightest budget law ever in terms of development or I don't know what it's all about, not when we're brought into the situation where we're brought in. That budget law is the first step towards one better tomorrow, to something where we will face our problems and we will call them the real name and then go to fight them, regardless of what the political price for it may be. We're not going to sit here and try to figure out how we can reduce that public debt, and then when we see that there's almost no way, we're going to keep doing what we've done before, afraid we might lose some percentage of the popularity. I don't care about the percentages of popularity. I don't look, I don't have any insight into any popularity polls, I don't care. I'm just interested in doing what needs to be done and doing it in the most righteous way possible. What we did with a profit reduction of over 60,000 in the public sector, where there is a problem with an extended indexation above 2014, where we didn't have to, therefore, go on for pensions and wages are responsible things even though they aren't popular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29468	Thank you. The word has Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29469	I would agree with one finding, which is that there is no future without investment, or no economic growth. However, the second part kind of stings a little bit, that without incentives there is no investment. It doesn't stand anywhere in the world, so it doesn't even stand with us. It stands in those countries that are unable to settle their situation at home, make a good business environment, and then because of that inaction and irresponsibility, you have to pay for people to invest in you. The result of the policy so far that was based on subsidies, which was based on inaction, which was based on irresponsibility, we see and it's all around us. We have a failing economy, we have a standard of living that falls. This policy has obviously produced poor results and we need to change that policy. To do what we've done so far, to expect different results, I don't think it's the mark of rational people. There is one proverb, which I have repeated several times, in the West, or in the Anglo-Saxon countries, that says – when you find yourself in a hole, or problem, the first thing you have to do is stop digging, because the solution is not deeper in the hole, but on the other side. In the case of subsidies, to give someone one dollar, you have to take one dollar and then the question is, did you do more damage where you took from the profits you got where you gave it? We've got a bill going on like this -- for every dozen jobs we've paid, we've lost 1,000 jobs somewhere. It's an unsustainable policy, and we have to stop it. So we need to focus on developing our domestic economy, creating conditions for good business, on equal market conditions, stop discreetly sharing taxpayers' money, make a system for the economy to start working, to make growth. With regard to ID cards, it is completely incomprehensible to me that it is possible to privatise any company without knowing what property you have, what the market value of that property, what are the obligations. So you need to know what to sell in the household. Otherwise, you get Vršača vineyards. So that part has to be arranged and it's just responsible behavior. In order to successfully implement privatisation in 2014, which is something we want to do, we want the state to reduce all economic participation, to strengthen the economic sector. In order to be able to complete this process, we must first determine the situation and work intensively on it. I think that by the end of the year, we will have this situation and we will know what assets these companies have, which is the value of these assets, which are the obligations and then we will enter into the process of restructuring, cleaning these companies from liabilities, to create preconditions for good and successful privatisation and for growth in domestic economy. So we want to make healthy tissue out of sick tissue and I think that's possible. It won't take me 10 years to carry out these things, but to see if in 2014 the policy we are proposing, whether the measures we propose will yield results or not? If they don't give the results, I won't be a minister anymore, but what we all expect is that these measures will really give results when you put things on healthy feet. We're going to get economic growth and we're going to get the investments we need, and that economic growth is going to create new jobs. Of course, I repeat again in 2014 will be a very difficult year. But that should be the year in which we're going in a new direction, to work within this new economic policy, so that from 2015 on, we can start to feel better. The aim of the Serbian government and all these economic measures is to gain growth and to start growing employment. We expect this to happen after 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29470	The word has a folk MP, Verica Kalanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29471	Mr. Baptizer, of course I understood you, of course I understood the budget, but obviously you didn't understand me. It's not my question – at what rate do you tax 75,000 doctors, and at which directors of public enterprises of 400,000? My question was – if we want to make a reform move, shall we say – there is no one but the director of public enterprises, who is professional in this country, and who can receive 400,000 salaries, because if he does not receive, he will leave the country. Why didn't you cut your salary to the directors of public enterprises to the limits, like the Prime Minister? At 150,000 dinars? But you say it yourself: those who have 400 and some thousands will pay at a higher rate. The question is, how can they have 400 and some thousands? It's not a question of the rate, it's a question of the amount of pay they pay their taxes on. Those who have 70,000 will pay at a lower rate. Yeah, it's the ones we're choking on every hope that tomorrow a young doctor can be successful here, lives from his work, and he's going to fall for Germany, so he says today. On the other hand, you say – there is a formula for local self-government. And you and I both know you didn't use that formula. And you and I both know that by that formula there are four groups of development of municipalities, and we have different transfers compared to the degree of development. You and I both know that some people are getting bigger, some people are reducing the transfer. We used the correction, you say -- that formula exists, it's not in the law, it's not in any sublegal act. A discretionary formula made at the ministry level to somehow measure what local self-government is doing, which is by law not. When it comes to... (President: Time Mrs. Kalanovic. I only apologize for one more sentence. I hope Minister Radulovic knows that both Hungary and the Czech Republic, and Slovakia, and Macedonia have incentives, but also have better business environments. The Republic of Serbia is in five destinations with the worst business environments and these are the World Bank's measurements and due to the length of the bankruptcy process, and because of the infrastructure, and because of inspections, and because of all the burden on economic operators.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29472	Thank you. The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29473	The fact is, for years back, we've been very irresponsible about creating this business environment. We've been here three months, we're already working on essential laws, although I think it'll fix us on the competitiveness list, and great attention will be directed right at fixing that business environment, and I think it'll give us exactly the result we're expecting. This race between the countries of the region that will give, donate more money, investors think it's a completely wrong policy. We can't deny the situation in our economy and someone has to look at that policy that's been led so far and recognizes that it was wrong. So, some kind of responsibility should exist and whoever led the economic policy so far would have to say – maybe the intentions were good, but the result was obviously wrong. That's what all Serbian citizens see, I think it's something so undisputed, that we should at least ask ourselves what the problem was. The Ministry and the Government have prepared a new package of measures, a new economic policy, a budget in the Department of Industry's work reflects this and the results of this policy will be measured in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29474	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29475	Just to be very clear about public enterprises, demagogy is to cut wages to someone who manages something that needs to go into the budget and who's responsible for millions. Just as demagogy, that the ministerial salaries are small, that is where I supported you and I believe that the Minister of Business, who is resolute for some of these companies, will agree, is to implement the law on public enterprises and to set up people who deserve to earn more than 100 and 150 thousand, because these companies will run professionally and, in accordance with their impact, will earn adequate money. We're going to change that, but that's what they'll see. As far as the place is concerned, of course the formula is everything we've done. We've taken subsidies from the local public utility companies that are still in trouble. We're down 30%. For that amount, we reduced the transfers where it was mathematically possible, or where we wouldn't have driven the transfers to minus. Why did we do that? Because as we want to get rid of ourselves in an adequate way of this bleeding that we have in relation to the enterprises in restructuring, we want the same way public companies. Where it is not working to address the problem of public utility companies, which are also public enterprises, many of which do not operate in a sustainable way. With that goal and with that logic are reduced transfers to the locale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29476	The word has a folk MP, Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29477	Minister Krstic, I won't replicate. We'll say something when we submit amendments to the funding of local self-government. But to you, Minister Radulovich, I want to replicate. You're a young man, unfortunately I'm not anymore, but by the year 2000, I worked in production and in factories that were iced, shared three stamps of pay and were completely devastated and ruined. I find it touching to talk today about the last 10 years of the failure of the Serbian economy, as if we had entered Switzerland in 2000, and that we had ruined everything in 10 years. Yeah, there were bad moves and I agree, that's right. But you just pointed your finger at something that was good, very good. It encourages those who have opened big world brands in our country, who have increased exports, who have hired people. I'm not saying that there may have been individual problems in that programme, but instead of promoting the programme, you have put out the last hope that Serbia can come, with the incentives of a new Fiat, a new Mercedes, a new Panasonic, and tomorrow with the term "made in Serbia" around the world, our products are being sold. In this way, by resuscitating with ID cards and by cleaning the balances of companies that were failed in 2000, I worked in one of them, you won't achieve any increase in production, no employment of people, no new investment. You'll only make new people and new people on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29478	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29479	What they say, they were alive and saw. Since what we are doing will be measured by all citizens of Serbia, so that what we expect is made public. Of course we came out of the '90s with a very bad economic situation. But in the last ten years, we have completely devastated these companies, one of the great irresponsibility of state authorities, especially the ministry run by the economy, then, the privatisation agency that should have taken care of them. Ten years of unhappiness, abandoning these companies, and today we have a situation that we have. Yes, I really think that putting these companies on healthy feet, cleaning from debts, that it will also represent an investment opportunity for Serbia and an opportunity to get to economic growth, and I think that's the central theme for us in 2014. About these subsidies, I repeat again, while we were buying jobs in a dozen, we lost a thousand. And in every account you have to see the money you've given, what you get from it, and who suffers the damage of the dinars you've lost. When we look at all the programs and see what this is about and what benefits we have, it is an unequivocal result, that is, the conclusion that this is one wrong policy and that this policy should be abandoned. We need to base ourselves on the domestic economy. I will say once again for the end, in 2014 and 2015, the results of this policy will be measured, so we will really see whether the Government is right or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29480	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29481	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected finance ministers, economy ministers, as far as the SPS parliamentary group is concerned, I must repeat the position expressed by counterpart Kasalovic as authorized in front of the parliamentary group, that the SPS parliamentary group fully supports this budget as we have supported those accompanying laws that rely on this budget. What we can do after this informal discussion that lasted all these days on the budget is we say that maybe the right time has come to analyze a little bit and some of the details that have essentially surfaced in the meantime, so to speak, during this debate, and as I do, a very strange replacement of the thesis that persists here. I've been listening to everything, believe me. I don't know what it's like for Serbian citizens. So much concern for doctors by those who have been leading health care for ten years, who we have found in the condition in which we found him, and to those top experts who have come to help us with our time in the country, and now they sit here and today I see that they advise younger colleagues, but they can't tell them what the reason we're in this situation is. Is it a combination of not knowing or were the evil intentions of the tailor of our destiny? It's an interesting attempt... You can see that my colleague Djelic is throwing me extremely nervous. I don't know why. I can freely put his picture on and wear it and tell these workers in front of what they're strikein' and they're complaining that the main culprit is number one Bozidar Djelic for all of this which is why we're in this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29482	Let's get back to the budget debate, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29483	It's interesting for me to try to banish a thing, how economic policies have been conducted in this country, and they've resulted in problems we're in and we can't remove them for a short period of time. Simply, such a situation requires patience and effective work. It's even weirder, not to use a strong word, that the creators of the absurd and the main creators of the destruction of the Serbian economy today appear as critics of all of what the ministers are saying and I can only define it as some subsequent mind, I don't know what else to say about these people. Then it is said: chances for young people do not exist. I'm going back and I'm saying now that we're renting hours and hours on state television and playing all that and what the effects of what we've been doing and what the mistakes of the past have been and why we've come into this situation that we're in today... You're wondering about some phantom salaries. My people, in public enterprises, we need to give good pay managers, not to give some agencies, imaginary jobs to pay higher than the chiefs of cabinets and assistants of some agency presidents have, rather than the director of a company that manages property worth several billion. It's absurds. The question is, where did our money go? Why were there enormous fees on boards in one period since 2006? That's what we need to talk about. If there was an income from this robbery privatisation, and we of the SPS are free to say that it was and has proven itself, because 30 of some large ones have been cancelled, half of them have been cancelled, and these people are on the streets and I don't want to talk about the models that are going through here -- how some businesses are subsidized and how foreign investors are being brought in. I'll say it in short, so let the one who did it be recognized and why he did it like that. Anyone who's ever done business and as a businessman who earns money and sells some of their knowledge, I don't think it has anything to do with that other story of lobbying that keeps going on here, because the difference is making that money, making the money that you need to give to someone who comes into your country tomorrow to invest. I understand why this knowledge and this ignorance, in order to call them, are not entirely known. They are known to those who have done this and have so far created some economic policies and I can say that they have led us to the ambis because they have never been in the economy and never invested their money, and that is why they have brought the economy into the situation in which it is today. There are no subsidies, incentives, reliefs and other instruments that can hide the fact that investors didn't want to come to our country because our economic system is, I must say, rotten. Foreign investors themselves, but serious foreign investors, have seen the state of our economy and what our businessmen are in because it's obvious that you have to have a political back to do something. You have to have a political back to get some credit from the Development Fund, and so does a colleague who had just discussed it, who was a member of the Management Board of that fund, if I'm not mistaken, and was directly responsible for identifying certain funds from that fund. It's just, all that money you have to take away from someone, from someone who's working and who's forcing in our country to give someone else, he's got to be staring at the absurds. We can't run our companies that way. To present one piece of information, we are now giving three percent of what workers and employers in our country earn to play, I have to express myself, making up some reality, and we are going to the EU in which that figure is at least four times smaller. It doesn't matter. This isn't just about the EU story. This is about asking a question – what is the reason for poor Serbia to pay rich France, South Korea and all those countries that come to work in Serbia? Is it natural that, as one colleague would say, a poor farmer from southern Serbia pays and gives of his bread to the richest people in the world to earn money in Serbia? Isn't that absurd? I don't know what more we need to talk about without talking about the water heaters. Subsidies have been given to a company that will produce water heaters next to the company that produced water heaters and which has been destroyed and which is one of the examples of bad promotions in our country. Why don't we say so? Why doesn't someone call them in those middles and say it's like that? You pay to bring competition to your economy. I don't know what these people's intentions were. Not to set an example of the banking system, we can talk about it by tomorrow. These lobbyists, these experts who came to the side, so they quickly brought all these measures in, ruined everything worth it in this country, those who appear, they are recognized. I have to say, what I've already said, we can't take from the poor to give to the rich and take from our business to give to foreign companies. But let me point out what I think would be "epochal" to call it. We're getting some epochal and economic failures all over the place, where we literally pay everything, so someone takes some companies that are worth millions in supplies, and some big systems are torn apart, so what's healthy is privatized or divided, and some big profits are made when these systems are torn apart. What we are paving about for days and during that debate when the Fifth Budget Forum was, one of the teachers saw it got up and said – people can't expect from the directors of some public enterprises to get something at a higher price, and to sell it at a lower price, and that the same goods can't be charged tomorrow from objective circumstances, circumstances in which our country is located, to put them on a pillar of shame that they're not good managers. Let's get some things straight and separate some things from each other. If this were to start operating on market conditions and have profitable prices, then there would be problems because the situation in Serbia is what it is. I don't want to talk about the guilty. I can talk about the guilty until the day after tomorrow, and we can do analysis, how much debt anybody owed, and how much they wrote off the Paris Club, and then made an arrangement with the IMF, then six years of grace period, and then we get back to 2008, and then we start paying off interest. This is for serious discussion, one serious analysis. I think that some of them who are still sitting here, and admit they're experts in all European countries, are sitting just to defend, to distract us, to simply stutter and to hide the truth about why we're in this situation. We can notice that lately, which is very interesting, lush and economic consulting, which I find extremely unusual, it helps the economy, and then we have companies that don't have to run business books for up to six million dinars, and they pay a tax that's at the level of six million dinars of traffic, at 2%-3% a year. That's all. Such agencies have been massive lately. I don't want to scare the citizens of Serbia now, what the intentions of these agencies are, and what it means to increase that tax limit to six million. That's not all. For those 2%-3%, you get pension and health insurance. It is well known that the price of wealth is to share it with the poor. That's what we stand for as an SPS, but obviously it hasn't been that way in the past. Unfortunately, in this country, a regular worker has to give 70 dinars of tax on every 100 dinars of net wages, so here's an example where some rich people, who have a little more and who can get priority jobs, deal with consulting, pay 2%-3 percent of what they earn. I'm gonna make a little joke. When I was a kid, I read "Alan Ford," so you had that Super Hick. Now, this was the economy of Super Hika – taken from the poor and given to the rich. It's so obvious. Comedy little, but this is true, unfortunately. It's in the comic book, and this is in Serbia. That's how we got into trouble, and the problem is nothing more than that. That bothers someone. What I must say, as far as the budget is concerned, is an attempt to overcome all these problems and this budget opens up a new chapter of our fiscal policy. He's real, as much as one colleague says, someone says he's real, someone says he's unrealistic. There's no embellishment here, and it's not going to surface what's been covered up for the public, so later it's coming out extremely naked. The income, the expenses, that's what we talked about. The expenditures are known to everyone, they can't hide, but we obviously failed on income. As MEP, I must point out that the proposed budget contains a social component and all solutions that are socially unacceptable have been eliminated. There is no fiscal consolidation, we stand firm behind it and we will always stand as a party, which will have elements of social injustice and endangering the position of people and the positions of groups living on the edge of existence. It is our duty and we will remain consistent until the end, when it comes to it. What we'll do a hundred times if we have to, that's also for the sake of these workers, I end up and bring my discussion to an end, that I believe only in partnership and that the only future of our country is in consensus between employers and their associations and workers and unions. So we can build a society on sound ground and in a healthy environment. In the end, I will conclude that our desire for reforms to be real, about which we will have a consensus and reach consensus. Thank you all for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29484	Bozidar Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29485	Thank you. I'm directly mentioned. We really don't intend to compromise here, but we just heard an attempt to charge the virus with a cure for the disease. What else is there when after the rule of Milosevic, Seselj, Nikolic, Vukic, Dacic, you find Serbia where the average salary is less than 50 euros? What is it with the virus when you find a country where the financial system doesn't work, where only very well connected people can get any credit at all. What else is the poorest country in Europe, which lost 67% of its GDP and 56% of its industrial production? What is it with the virus, when people go to the streets associated with organized crime, they kidnap certain people, their children? What else is it since you have cigarette smugglers who have 80% of the total market? What's it been since you've had a situation where there's almost all the oil in the hands of smugglers, who are then blackmailing, who are killing journalists? To this day, we don't know what your death warrants are. And opposition politicians and those who had to run for their own skin. Do we have to listen to lessons from these people today, in 2013, those who, after that, in public enterprises that attack here, are able to make further affairs? Who ruined Galenika? The 24 privatisations, it wasn't during the government of Zoran Djindjic, that was after. That's what you do. You do what you do today, Serbia, and you see us as a cure, and we will need our country's medicine again. That's what we're convinced of.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29486	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29487	There's only one thing I'd say about this. The fact that we had a catastrophic '90s, it's undeniable, that the state got into a lot of trouble. But that can't be an excuse for the policy we've been leading for the last ten years. The results we have today are extremely bad, and I think we should do a little bit of that. It is what depends on the change of that policy, the future of Serbian citizens, so we really need to talk about it, and that is the essence of the problem, the wrong economic policy that has brought us now into this extremely difficult situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29488	Verica Kalanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29489	I'm not going to do a roll-over in the past, even though I lived here in Serbia in the '90s, with two small children, and I worked in the first 5-years in the cold room for six months, and six were on hold. But I did answer to those who are insinuating on the political back, I guess, me or my loan party. For a year and a half, I was head of the Board of Directors of the Development Fund. I call upon those who today have both the judiciary and the police, and the secret and public services, to check my work and those who had the political back of the URS to get credit to the Development Fund. Of course, let them ask the rest of us, there were 11 of us, who unanimously approved loans to companies through the Development Fund. But the least I expect here is that someone is asking the question of how the Development Fund worked which, at the moment I was leaving, had a billion and 700 million non-plassed funds, which each year operates with a business profit that it pays in part into the budget, and does not ask how Galenika works, "The Paths of Serbia", "Serbia", "Serbiagas", "Dunav" insurance works. They need big salaries, so management doesn't go away, but that's why loans need political backs. Let's examine that political back. Let's see what the police do about these politicians who give and approve loans to businesses in Serbia without certain means of security. (President: Time. It's not a situation, fortunately, like that. This is just throwing dust in your eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29490	Minister Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29491	About the Development Fund, so that citizens don't get the wrong impression that the Development Fund was all right and then something happened. The Development Fund is badly managed. I'm not talking about the '90s and after that, I can only talk about these years that really have something to do with this today. A large number of loans in the Development Fund are non-refundable, i.e. there are payment problems. It's 60% in big problems, an additional 20% in additional problems. You can't have an institution with 60 employees who run 20,000 credit parties. That's impossible. So we had one system that untransparently, selectively allocated money, which only went to certain people, and it just can't. We have to leave it. We need a healthy system available to all citizens of Serbia. We need to remove everything that's wrong and that's sick. There's a lot of it. We'd like to do it overnight, but let's get a problem. I think if we keep going at that pace and if we're responsible, we talk about facts and solve problems, we're going to face problems, I think we're going to make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29492	He has the word Dejan Radenkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29493	Thank you, Vice President. I've been looking for a replica right now, and now I'm supposed to have two minutes at a time, but you're not gonna let me do it. I also asked for a replica when I discussed and spoke on behalf of the SPS, and I did not expect that those in many texts would react differently, recorded in many books as undertakers of the Serbian economy and Serbian banking and everything that was right in this country. I can only ask my distinguished colleague about the company she mentioned - and why is it in a worse situation today than in the '90s, if we want to go so far? What was wrong with that when you were able to sell out everything that wasn't right? So you spent more of that money to resubsidize these dissatisfied workers, to get them back to work and to pay these 120 companies and some companies that are in restructuring and all at the expense of the state. I can only say - one non-domestic business. For what reason? What's with the anxiety? I say, expert, well, here you go. Recognised in Europe. Why isn't he there to help some other countries as he came to help Serbia? Let him go, not sit here, distract us and tell us fairy tales. Here, let's get him out in front of the workers, let's go together and let's go out in front of these workers. Here, buddy, you want to go out front together? Let's see who they hate more, you or me? You. You ruined them. You've ruined everything that works in this country. You're a undertaker. You.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29494	The word is Sasa Milenić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29495	On the basis of article 107 and the use of qualifications not only of the People's MP but also of the discussion of the highest representative of the Government of Serbia, we heard today that democratic changes in Serbia were the cause of the country's economic downturn, and that in the 80s and 90s, against which the people rose by revolutionary means, were the years of economic boom to which this government would bring us back. We demand irrevocable apology for offensive discriminatory messages, offensive to the intelligence and self-respect of the nation. Otherwise, I will initiate the departure of parliament in which the 1990s are declared from the government's position age-old targets and expansions that we seek.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29496	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29497	Of course that's not said. The catastrophes were in the '90s, but we can't use the '90s forever as an obstacle to the mistakes we've made in the last 10 years. So we still have to be responsible, in the '90s is our history, what happened to us happened to us, was very difficult, disastrous for Serbia, but in the last 10 years we've been running a really bad economic policy that then produced this state that we have today and that we need to treat. In order for us to move forward, we need to first see what's wrong with that policy that's been going on for the last ten years and make changes. We did it, we made changes, we have a new economic policy and we expect results from that policy. No more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29498	The word has Verica Kalanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29499	My replica refers to what Minister Radulovic said and what is completely false, which is that 60% or already, I forgot, the percentage of credit that the Development Fund has defined for small and medium-sized enterprises is private, which is its basic activity, inexplicable. That's just not true. For the sake of truth and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, we must tell what is true. It is true that the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund defines loans with sound guarantees and that the charge is better than the charge from the business banks, but it is also true that the Development Fund defines at the conclusion of the Government of the so-called ‘Government Fund’. subsidies called credit support to failed enterprises, restructured companies, whose charging capacity is very low and at a small percentage. That's true. If not, the Development Fund would have failed long ago, it would have been a fund that fell apart as "Agrobank", as "Vojvodine Development Bank", as "The Business Bank of Belgrade". That way, he would fall apart and not pay the profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29500	The word has Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29501	Some of the things said don't match the truth. There are two parts of the Development Fund, part of which is mainly from the budget for subsidies of social enterprises and part of which are the own funds of the Fund to be given. Unpaid loans in the part of which subsidies are in a higher degree non-paymentable than in the share provided by the Fund. However, in the Fund's part, we also have about 60% indemnity. The problem is both parts. The bigger problem is in the part where the state in the budget gave money, mostly for subsidies, of course. However, there is also a problem in this area where the Fund provides direct funds. The fact that some big aid to small and medium-sized enterprises from the Development Fund are telling us differently. It is obvious that the situation is extremely difficult, that this Fund is not fulfilling its function. I repeat, money is shared on political grounds. About these guarantees they give, it doesn't even stand. There are a lot of guarantees, let's say, from Agrobank, which are not chargeable, from Vojvodina Development Bank, and some other collaterals that can't be charged. The fund's analysis is still being done. We'll have detailed information, they'll be publicly published on the Ministry of Economy site, you have a detailed overview of all the legal entities who got the money and the state of that loan, and based on these facts we should also talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29502	Dragan Sutanovac, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29503	Thank you. I reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 107 who was made by a speech from the SPS, whom you did not warn, who even used hate speech at the assembly session, calling on fellow MPs to go out to the street to see whom citizens hated more, in the belief that the citizens had forgotten which parties he came from, and what good it had brought to the citizens of Serbia, not only during the 1990s, but also in the time that followed us. I remind you that not only economic policy, but this country's policy has been run by the government that has been participated by the SPS in the last eight years, and practically since 2004, which is directly... (President: Mr. Sutanovac, please just don't replicate. What directly, indirectly, affected this country’s economy. If there is a problem with whether or not citizens hate someone, they might first look at themselves in the mirror and see what their political group has brought and what it is that they can be proud of in time for us. What reform has been implemented on your part, except for the Brussels Agreement, which is why you cannot return to the place where you were born and support the agreement as good for the citizens of Serbia and for this country. That's why I'm asking you to leave, and above all...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29504	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. I ask the MPs not to use the Rules of Procedure's institute to replicate other MPs. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today and after 18.00 hours, considering the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we'll be back at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29506	The esteemed chairman, the vice-president of the Assembly, who chaired the pre-paste session, interrupted one debate, in a way that was not in the spirit of parliamentary culture and parliamentary dialogue, while it was also reported for a debate in the Rules of Procedure and for replicas. I believe that, in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure, that's not the way a session should be held. There was a heated debate between the SPS and the DS, which is completely different from the spirit of the Declaration of Reconciliation signed by Ivica Dacic and Boris Tadic, in which they overcame the difficulties and misunderstandings from the past and set off for a near, bright European future. Therefore, simply in the spirit of the work of this Parliament, it is necessary to enable everyone and those who have signed the Declaration of Reconciliation and those like the DSS who cannot forget the period of the 1990s and all that has happened with the old foreign exchange savings, the loan for the rebirth of Serbia, 24 pensions that have been delayed, riots, demonstrations, beatings, power shortages, fuel canisters and all that has happened. In the spirit of parliamentaryism should be led by this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29507	Simply, I can only join the appeal for the debate to be conducted in a dignified way, and in that sense I ask all MPs to behave accordingly. I don't think developing passion leads to anything, and all we can do is reason with our heads and come up with some solutions. We can disagree in attitudes and views. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Mr. Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Replica. On whose line? No, please, let's finish the replicas. I can't be objective here. You'll have time to discuss everything more. Please continue to work on the order of MPs. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I was told that after the break I would be entitled to a replica. Please, we'll just cause new replicas. I'm not in the middle of anything, and don't put me in a position. I give my word to the MP, Rose Igic. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word to Mrs. Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29508	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the DSS MPs have very detailedly reviewed this law, which you have delivered to us, with a desire to improve, in a way, or bring about a improvement in this law. Of course, today I can't discuss the full budget law, but I'll look back on the part that concerns agriculture. So in order to sort of compare this budget to the previous one, I took the budget that was made last year and this budget you're offering us right now. There's almost no difference between these two budgets in any dinar. There is a difference in the budget rebalancing that was brought about at the end of the year and it shows that the proposal envisions nearly three billion less funds for Serbian agriculture. The 2014 budget proposal has another difference, which is a difference in forecasts for around 10% of the agrarian budget to be the ministry's own revenues. What are your own incomes from the Ministry of Agriculture? It is clear from this that these are foreign loans and payments from loans and the sale of financial assets. If the state is already in debt and selling assets, where will it be invested? Is it possible that the capital expenditure referred to in Article 5? In Article 5, you state some capital expenditure that the DSS considers to be truly catastrophic. It provides for a laboratory to determine the quality of raw milk and agrometeorological cells. The total funds per two items amount to about 400m dinars per year, or 3.5m euros per year. So in three years, somewhere over 10 million euros. This capital investment in three years will cost as much as two dams: a dam with accumulation at Valjev and a dam with accumulation at Ariel. The question is, is it really necessary for Serbia, at the moment when you call for savings, to tighten the belt, that a laboratory already exists in Novi Sad with the same equipment, with the same methods of work that we gave over 415 million dinars for last year? So, Mr. Minister, you weren't here last year when we adopted the budget, but let me remind you, there's the same milk quality control lab in Novi Sad, just 80km from Belgrade. Does Serbia really need another such laboratory, especially since we know what the situation of agriculture is, or what the stock fund is in. Article 5 lists another capital investment, but this time for the Agrarian Payments Administration, where 45m dinars or about 450,000 euros per software are allocated for software uniforming the main breeding records in two years. This software should cost as the construction of water supply facilities for the settlements Subotica and Roanda, the regional despotovac-Svilajnac system. With respect to the promoter, we wonder if this type of investment is really justified in such an investment? We do not dispute that the funds you plan to build new and revitalise old irrigation systems, since Serbia is indeed a country that irrigates only 1% of its agricultural surface, at least in Europe, we support this process, because it is indeed time for Serbia to stop being a country that is irrigated only during the flood or during the rain. However, it concerns the attitude towards forests, without which there is no water. By this draft budget, if it compares to last year's draft budget, you allocate 300 million dinars less for the forest budget fund. No water, especially in a situation where forests are at risk, when they dry, when the leper is a big problem every year, you stand out compared to last year almost 40% of the funds for the forest budget fund. Is this the way we're doing it? We're going to squander such a significant natural resource? I want to point out the following. If the salaries are compared and the employees' fees are added to the ministry, to do so, I took and compared certain things. So, in 2012, the democratic power for salaries and allowances of ministry employees stands out to 543 million. The draft bill on the ministry's salary budget singles out 1,090,000,000 dinars. So, twice as much betraying the Progressive-Socialist Authority. If we know there is no employment, there will be no employment, then I wonder if it increases the salaries of this ministry or if the number of people working there is increasing? It's similar with travel expenses. While the previous government of the 2012 Budget Act envisioned modest 1,300,000 dinars, the 2014 Budget Law plans 12,358,000,000, so ten times the travel costs. Where did our ministry go, what big roads? Why didn't you pay that money for the social security of the oldest farmers? We know that people who are in the country have big problems with their health insurance. So, the ministry has great problems in fulfilling its obligations to farmers and we hope it will overcome them. We hoped that this budget proposal would reach the level of investment in agriculture recorded in the period 2004-2008, but unfortunately, we will probably not be expecting it soon, as well as the transfer of 7% of funds to the AP Vojvodina, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, which was only paid during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29509	The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29510	I'm advertising members 27 and 106. Mr. Chairman, the fact that you were not informed of what was happening until the moment you sat in the chair's position is no excuse for cutting the debate as a knife, which came out absolutely of all areas of decency at the moment immediately before the session was suspended due to the break. This means that the specific conduct of the session is compromised because it is not possible for those who are in the roughest, most direct way called here, even by name, to respond adequately to this for two minutes, aside from the fact that certain things are said that seem to me to be not appropriate to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It has been said for a whole group, I quote, that gravediggers have ruined Serbia etc. Then your predecessor says rescue - we have a break. Now, who in Serbia knows what is even said here, except that the most disgusting thing that can be said is said, of course, after those locks of one other MP from another parliamentary group of days and weeks ago. That's not what I'm talking about. Basically, I don't think we should allow that kind of thing. And aside from being an MP and saying, "Let's you and I go out to the workers, and we've been out there with these strikers, and they haven't been because they can't ask their noses, because they know what they left behind."
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29511	Please don't lead the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29512	That is why I ask you to give me the replica, because the replica is explicitly spoken by the chairman that it will be made possible for the head of the parliamentary group, in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure. If you don't want to give me a replica, then I believe that this breach of the Rules of Procedure is absolutely standing by all the criteria and that in that sense you should react, not you, but what you will do when you sit in that chair. It's not my fault you don't have adequate information about what happened before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29513	I got information on what was going on. I always inform myself before I sit down, at least about the basic issues that were going on before that. Now I'm telling you, the last one was replicated by Bozidar Djelic. To this presentation, Radenkovic wanted to see his colleague. I asked my colleague Radenkovic to give up the replica, believing that the replica had ended. By that principle, I did. Please appreciate that. I think we've solved this problem. You have the right to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Yes, I want to make a statement. ) In the day of voting, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29514	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, is the main objective of the budget foreseen for 2014 which is the recovery of our economy and economy, especially the private sector. The full effect will be achieved if a new labour law is passed, which provides for easier work for small and medium-sized enterprises, which should become a healthy basis for our economy. Then, it is still envisaged to simplify the maximum and reduce the administration, which represents one significant obstacle to our country's successful business, both domestic and foreign investors. When it comes to the private sector itself, one of the basic preconditions for its further development and progress is that there is a change in the state of consciousness among our citizens, i.e. to change the forward negative attitude in the private sector. If we really want to develop and progress as a society, then we have to be prepared for the root changes, as well as for taking the initiative, but we also have to be prepared to reject some of the outdated and long-overcoming patterns of behavior and thinking, the type – how to find a state job and keep it until retirement? It is simply not realistic to expect everyone to find a job in the public sector. That kind of behavior, that kind of thinking takes us back, which certainly isn't a good natural flow of things for society or for any individual. When it comes to the state sector, I don't think it needs to be explained in particular. It may best be pictured by the fact that according to the last survey done, as many as 20% of the employees have in the public sector than expected. Simply, what is intended to prevent such things is to determine exactly who does what and whose work is truly a real need. Then, it is also envisaged to introduce a single pay grade, because so far we have had one such policy for people who are employed in different institutions, while doing the same job, to be paid differently. I think it's quite correct to break up with such a policy, just as I think a fair reduction in public sector wages exceeding 60,000 is. Budgetary measures cover both the revenue and expenditure sides. When it comes to subsidies to public enterprises, they will be minimised. We are well aware of all those companies that are considered the biggest losers. What is important is that there are guarantees for public enterprises in the budget, but only to the extent that it is really necessary, so that the consequences are not again borne by the citizens themselves. So it didn't go to cuts that were bigger than necessary, which, in my opinion, really shows a high level of taking care of our citizens. One of the measures envisioned by this budget, which is also not popular, is the increase in VAT from eight to 10%. It's one of those long-term measures whose necessity and positivity can only be seen after one period of time. It is one of the biggest challenges of this whole story that will succeed in implementing all the measures that are envisaged. If there is indeed a successful implementation of all these measures, then the result will certainly not be missed. One of the first foreseeable results of the austerity measures is the reduction of the fiscal deficit. When it comes to the resources provided for education, science, technological progress, of course, each of us would be much happier that these resources could have been more significant. In this situation, the economic situation in our country is also the means that are foreseen. What I think is very positive is that still the allocated funds for free textbooks for students from first to fourth grade, then for young talents, for some scholarships, also for improving infrastructure. Only when it comes to infrastructure would I take the opportunity to mention the unconditionalness of some of our schools, especially schools located in rural areas. It is one of the postulates of education that all students should be educated under the same or similar conditions. Since this is practically often inconclusive, then it is up to us to provide as a society with the means that are, so modest, that these differences, if they cannot be completely overcome, and at least to be reduced. What I would especially like to praise is that our country has recognised the need and allocated funds to build a stem cell bank, because so far our country has lost millions of euros a year to send and store stem cells abroad. Now everyone will win because mothers will be able to keep their stem cells in their country for much less money, and yet that money will go into our budget, not into another country's budget. At the very end, what I would point out is that all the measures provided for in this budget, some of them not so popular, have a crystal clear goal, which is to curb the gray economy, improve tax payments. In one word, the recovery of our economy and our economy, thus increasing the number of jobs in the private sector, which automatically pulls out a better standard of living for our citizens, which is the strategic goal of this government, and therefore, in the day to vote, this budget proposal will receive SNS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29515	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, Minister, during the presentation of the DS arguments, you laughed nervously, and you finally said that everything we said was ridiculous. That's why I'm going to start with a few examples of what's not funny to us, so I'd like to see if that's still funny for you. Mr. Minister, is it funny to you that we don't find it funny that we have your legal decision that all employees and all pensioners, regardless of their salaries and pensions, have a 10% drop in purchasing power over the next three years? If you don't believe me, I would quote your colleague, Vice President Ljajic, who said that the average basket of the one who enters any store in our country for the term of office of this government fell from 500 dinars to 354 dinars. That's a 27% drop. Is that funny to you? It's not funny for a democratic party. Is it funny to you that in your budget you forgot for the first time in 12 years to put a broken bank, one dinar for active employment measures? Is that funny that we noticed and criticized it? Is it funny to you that we fought last week, without the presence of your MPs, that the ludicrous provision of the Law on Salaries, which could have led to all professors being fired since January 1st, except for regulars in colleges? Is that funny? Is it funny that we fought it and made you change it? We don't think that's funny. Is it funny for you, Mr. Minister, and for those who are now ready to vote for these laws, that these budgets, contrary to what we hear, predict the devaluation of the dinars from the current 114.9, as it was this morning, at 118.8 how much you plotted in the budget for the next year and the entire 127 dinars per euro in 2016 on average. Is that funny to you? It's 7% devaluation for all those who have loans. Unfortunately, most of them are still in foreign currency.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29517	Mr. Djelic, I have a request for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29518	Do you think it's funny? I'm talking about the budget, Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29519	Please, Mr. Djelic...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29520	What is this? You each time, Mr. Chairman, me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29521	Please, you can be as angry as you want, but it's my duty to warn you anyway. It's not fair or fair to make fun of the minister here and I don't believe the minister laughed at anything. He was serious. If he made a smile, that doesn't make him laugh. I beg you, throw that word out of the discussion and proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29522	Mr. Chairman and you who applaud, I ask you then to ask the service to see what the first words of the minister are when our authorised representative finishes his speech. Did he say this was all funny? Did he say that? Minister, did you say this was funny? Yes, you did. Thank you for your honest confirmation. All right, Mr. Chairman. I will not repeat what the minister has now admitted to saying. Is that okay? But we don't think it's funny, because in this budget, what are we saying? We find that it can't be favourable, can that word, to farmers who are reducing the budget by three billion dinars, that it can't be directed to continue, contrary to what we heard this morning, on page 408, this is the law we're talking about, and it's looking at 951 million dinars for the cablers. It says here, do you want me to quote, this is not my reading, but yours, that existing installations are old, are subject to constant malfunctions and congestion in the work that require increased maintenance costs and negatively affect the image and conditions in the ski center of Kopalnik, which was the reason for the launch of the sub-project of the construction of the “Krčmar” wire in the ski center of Kopalnik. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I didn't make this up. Can we say we don't believe in the Democratic Party to be a priority at this point? Will you understand why we suggested that this would not be an expense? I think that's reasonable. When we talk about what is going on, we proposed last week an amendment that could have a positive effect on the budget, because it is said to be saving, and we see that, contrary to what has been announced as a rescue law on public procurement that was supposed to provide between 600 million euros, that was a lower estimate, savings, we see purchases rising by 10% next year. We've heard some explanations, but these are all explanations that can't deny the fact that the funds for the purchase of goods and services are scheduled to grow by 10% next year. So much for the key story of the Public Procurement Act, so much for it. It doesn't seem normal to us at this point when it is asked of the poorest to suffer an increase in the price of bread, milk, medicine, utility, rabbit, and as far as younger and younger ones are concerned, and to increase the cost of computers, to increase in the next budget after 6.7% as recognised by the finance minister in this budget so far, to increase that expenditure by 3.2%, and when we know that not a small number of people will retire, and you don't intend to replace it, it will increase even further. Mr. Minister, we have proposed an amendment that only followed your words. Did we agree with you? You're right, we should have done it sooner, so we can legally ensure that no one who works in the public sector can get more than one salary. You refused that amendment. You did not allow an anomaly to be avoided that someone who is not an entrepreneur, nor has incredible abilities of two, three or four thousand euros a month. That's bad. Now I'm gonna tell you what's been going on since we saw each other last time, that was Friday. Do you know how many people are employed at this point? Do you know how many procedures have been initiated? I mentioned some examples. Will you, Mr. Minister, be familiar with the fact that there are environments where the councilors, those who today form the majority in this House, offer our committees to antedate competitions, so don't make a fuss, so we'll give you some quota? Do you know there are such attempts? That's why you had to accept our amendment last week that allowed all the procedures that were initiated from the moment of the formation of this reconstructed government to be void and that the Assembly, because it's pretty hairy, as the people say, would determine and approve this activity, because these measures you predicted would be implemented. You studied ethics. So I think public work ethics requires that words spoken be followed, especially when said by the finance minister. On the other hand, you may have studied ethics, but it seems you haven't studied Etihad. You know, we've been trying to get a contract for months. The only thing that we see here, and that's on page 108, we see that in the Department of Industry's division, which, by the way, is a very dung and a reason, is the same thing, 8.3 billion dinars for "Fiat" and Etihad i.e. Er Serbia. Please, Mr. Minister, expecting this home and our citizens to be much more important, to approve this budget that provides for significant funds for Er Serbia, i.e. for what you've already done, because as far as we know, there's been a subsidy this year, and the Development Fund has approved one guarantee that we still don't know anything about. We don't even know what the amount is. Basically, today I'm going to show you what many people are doing in that system have delivered to us. This is just in the form of a question. This is a copy of the APR, which is available to everyone. This is Er Serbia ladies and gentlemen, here's Er Serbia, as officially registered to the APR. It says that Er Serbia was founded on February 29th 1992. How's that, Minister? Did you do it 21 years ago when you remembered? I'll tell you how – Er Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, until further notice, according to these documents is nothing but our old JAT Airways. You just changed his name. Shall we move on? Here's a number of contracts. It's up to you to tell if they're true or not, where we see that those contracts for the planes you took, what flies today, are meant to go to Ljubljana where we used to fly, says that for one plane A319, the contract where it's clearly seen that the contract between JAT Airways is, i.e. Er Serbia and Etihard. This means that our taxpayers pay for all those gnocchi, for all the splashes in the airports, for all those scarfs and for all those interiors, which may be better than what Lufthanza has. You know how much we pay? I'll tell you now. We pay $3.37.8 an hour, and since it's scheduled to fly for 415 hours, it comes 1.3 million a month, a little less than a million euros. Ministers and respected colleagues, do you know when this plane was built? Do you know, those new planes? That plane was factoryed in November 1999. We also have this one from 2000. It's time for you to tell us, since there's nothing from Al Dahra and agriculture, tell us when that plane is built, Novak Djokovic. Tell us the truth about how much we pay for it, so maybe we'll back it up, because it's good to find a solution for JAT Airways. I beg you on behalf of all the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia not to hide the truth. Don't hide the truth, because the more it hides, the more it becomes suspicious. That's why I'm asking you and this is the last piece of paper I'm going to show you, these are Mr. Ministers, the amendments prepared by the DS, 50 of them. They also have ideas about what you forgot. You forgot your youth education programs, you didn't give enough money to the Accreditation Commission, you didn't give up money under the law for any local self-government. The way you reduced transfers punish those who were the most responsible, who hired the least and those who predicted through so-called. subsidies to finance economic growth and employment. Instead of raising 80 per cent of the property tax in Belgrade and other cities, and we were against that law in May when you predicted it, give some money to Belgrade as well. Now that you're taking him, don't punish the Belgraders. Don't punish Serbia. Don't punish all those who want the truth, and don't in any way think anyone's funny about this situation that we're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29523	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29524	I wasn't laughing at what you were talking about and the situation we're in that you've mostly brought us into. I said the arguments would be ridiculous if this wasn't my country, but since it is, they're sad. That's what I said yesterday, that is, on Friday the last time we saw each other. Now in a row. You're saying, from 500 to 360 dinars, I didn't follow closely what Deputy Prime Minister Ljajic said on the subject, but I guess that's the amount of money people spend when they go shopping. This does not necessarily talk about the fall of the consumer basket or purchasing power. You know that well. It's a manipulation of the fact, if I understand correctly. It's just that I'm not. Active employment measures in the original budget were 400 million dinars, for commitments of 200 million dinars in the division of the Ministry of Labour, and since the Ministry of Economy was still assessing in agreement with the Ministry of Labour how much money is needed under this restructuring programme, you know perfectly well that you have defined the amendment proposed and adopted by the government, two billion dinars for active employment measures. It totals two billion and 200 million new and another 400 million more for commitments made. Then you mentioned firing the professor. We made one joint amendment, which I was experiencing at that time as a common amendment to the Committee on Finance, and after a meeting attended by the first State Secretary, Minister of Education and the Committee on Science. The original law did not provide for teachers to be fired, those who are not regular teachers, and that is not the case at all. I'm sorry that something I think was a quality joint effort, you're turning it into something that's not a fact. The Minister of Agriculture talked about agriculture. We have reduced subsidies everywhere, and our intention is to cut subsidies. Of course, because subsidies are not used productively. Instead of subsidies for agriculture, there are loans from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund for which projects were predetermined and could have been told yesterday by the agriculture minister that there were issues. There will also be another loan that will be at very favourable rates that will go directly to farmers, but not a subsidy in the sense that farmers receive money from the state, not for concrete projects and for increasing and speeding up production. The Minister of Economy was here all day today, I don't know if you asked him a question or if you were talking about some divisions with him. I think we've cut subsidies, except for those projects and there will be more, but they're not subsidies, we can call them whatever we want, for firms in restructuring that we want to reverse, where we have a "Fiat", where there's Er Serbia. I hope we have a few more of those. In that area, I don't think subsidies will be harmful if they help us save jobs from what the giants have fallen into, as we often hear, to do something that's healthy and that works, so let's let the plane be rented. I don't know if it's rented or not, but it's not the subject of the budget. But even though it was rented, I was driving it and it's good. As far as the cablemen are concerned, these are the commitments made from the previous year, as it says very clearly in what you described as a smut explanation. It's even mentioned that there's a path on the bathroom, the path of the pub. If that's a nerd, I don't know what else is, I know exactly what he's thinking. I'm not going to comment, but I've already explained in detail why there's an increase of nine or ten percent, if I'm not mistaken, on goods and services. It's deficiently neutral because of an increase in IPO funds of 1.6 billion, books on both income and distribution, transfers that the Ministry of Education gives to local self-governments of about 6.6 billion, and there were a few billion more from similar topics. Finally, as for Belgrade and the tax hike, you know perfectly well that it is in accordance with the law, that all other local self-governments have already done so and that, parallel to that, compensation for building land is lifted in equal amount. We are, you know, excellently, from this joint co-operation that we had on this one amendment, which, unfortunately, is being turned around by mockery and demagogy, went through all the 50 amendments submitted by the DS and through all the other amendments, a few of them have been adopted where we thought it was constructive. The right to tell you I didn't even watch when we were going through them. I had the numbers and I circled the numbers when we discussed them over the weekend, and I didn't even ask who was handling them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29525	He mentioned MPs in a negative sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29526	Mr. Arsic, it doesn't mean that he mentioned your MPs to you that you have the right to reply immediately. Mr. Djelic spoke to the minister all the time and I have to confess the gift he used, and I asked him to drop it from his dictionary and he did it. I thank him in that sense because I still felt it was a little offensive. You have no right to a replica. The word has Božidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29527	Yeah. Thank you. We're glad you had a good time on the plane. I don't know, we heard the plane couldn't fly to Athens today. Is it because he's almost as old as our celebrated tennis player? I don't know, but hopefully since we don't have anything against this arrangement, you understand our discussion in the light of desire, the fact that we need to find a solution for all public enterprises, including JAT, that it's very important for all of our citizens to know the facts. From you twice, because I asked you to do it the last time you were here for other laws, to do us good, because as MPs, we have to vote for or against this budget, which apparently provides for budgets for this project, to deliver this contract nicely to us. Will you, Mr. Minister, honor not DS but this home and what is more important to all the citizens of RS by contract with Etihad? He's not a private matter. If you're looking for one dollar, and I know you know it, from the register of state, together, it can't be a private arrangement. We have the right to know everything about this arrangement. If there's a line that's a business secret, we'll understand that. We'll ask why, but okay. Why are you hiding everything? Why isn't every arrangement available to the public somehow? We don't know anything. We don't even know anything about that hotel. We don't know why that arrangement with Al Dahra was supposed to be positive, where investments were supposed to come, not credit, and you're right. This little, $265 million, as far as it's supposed to be for irrigation, is a bilateral loan, and it's probably a 3 to 4% default. Tell us why the agreement, if so announced, with Al Dahra has failed? We asked you the same thing in these sections when you said it was a dork, and it's not a dork. I'm sorry there's no Minister of Economy here. Do you stop Siepa or not? until when do you pay for incentives for employment? (President: Time.) Therefore, Mr. Minister, understand our concern in the light of the seriousness of this situation. We have no idea we're doing some controversy here, but we expect concrete answers from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29528	By the book, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Article 104 of Item 2 has been violated. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly because the previous speaker in his presentation in the principle of the Budget Law for 2014 said the following things – that MPs who support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not want to participate and did not want to participate in the work of the Committee and that their proposal was as opposition parties to preserve professors who would stop working at their universities from 1 January unless they were not employed indefinitely. Article 104 provides - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group. If you think it is not offensive for SNS MPs to have someone who says they did not want to participate in the work of the board and that their indifference has threatened the right of professors to teach at universities after 1 January, I do not know what is a major insult. So, the MPs each participate in the work of the board and have their place. I don't want to argue with you, but it is said in such a way that as if the MPs of the SNS did not understand the work of the MP sufficiently, I asked for the right to replication. Please give me the right to do so. Stenographically, you can lead that it's really said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29530	Mr. Arsic, please. I understand the problem you're talking about. I still don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. No matter how you realized it, I didn't experience it that way. But you have the right to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I still don't think you have the right to a replica. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29531	We both know that the session is recorded and stenographed, so please turn on my microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29532	Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29533	Yes, I want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure because it is obvious that the discretionary right of the President of the Assembly, or the chairman, to determine what the right to replication is often misused.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29534	In the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sasa Milenić, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29535	With the apologies of my colleagues, in the middle of the day, this is really advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and it's a little distracting from the subject. But this is just an illustration of the interruption of the discussion of the previous debate on the systematic violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is not just you who are the chairman, but most often you. Article 106(2) - no one has the right to interrupt the People's Parliament and stand—except the Chairman, but immediately thereafter—in the cases provided for by this Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger has only one thing that doesn't have the right to insult any of them personally. The MP is not a hostess. He doesn't have to be nice. He doesn't have to have a sense of respect for anyone he talks to. He mustn't be offended. It can be cynical, it can be malpractice, it can be ironic, sarcastic, unpleasant, dramatically unpleasant, and no one has the right to interrupt it as it exposes the unpleasantly engaged political truth it represents. It is so much more important and contributes to freedom of speech, which makes someone more uncomfortable. It is a systematic asphyxiation of freedom of speech in a place from which it must stem from the abuse of the presidency's right, which is very discreet, at the very least acceptable, when it comes to insults. Even that twist on the subject is being abused here because the chairman takes an unauthorized discretionary right to judge what a detour is during the second, third sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29536	Mr. Milenic, it is your right to have an idea about the interruption of the speaker. Please, Mr. Milenich, is this now dignified? So, as I speak, they all speak out loud. So, I want to say something else. I just wanted to say the idea of hurting the Rules of Procedure. I realized and so I felt that the MP, perhaps he has no intention, but he demeans the minister, and that's why I asked him. That's why I thank him. I don't mind the way he said it, it's his right, but I thought it was a word -- it's not funny, it's not funny, and he respected it, and I thank him again. Don't push it out now, if we're going to get some dignity in order. You're now asking that everyone here can speak in any way. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just to be clear. You have the right to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to go to the voter's Day to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29537	I hate to say it, but yes, I'm going to demand that the National Assembly plead, because I think it's systematic. Silence is not a way of political controversy with politically unacceptable attitudes. That's exactly what this is all about in parliament. In addition, each person’s personal confidence, including the chairman, must retain for himself, if it enters into the unhindered right of every MP’s right to free, by means of rhetorical, aesthetic, political, which he deems necessary, expresses his confidence. I also think of the “dress code, ” I think that's why it gave up. And by suit, an MP can express his political views and his hairstyle and insecureness, let alone civilly unacceptable rhetoric. Who says that every MP represents the "mein stream" of middle class?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29538	Mr. Milenic, I didn't write this Rules of Procedure, and you participated and we all participated in his writing. (Saša Milenic: And I'm defending him right now.) Then please take care of it. The Rules of Procedure say that every speaker in the debate is obliged to stick to the agenda. You, if you advocate a certain controversy widely, it requires a change of rules of procedure. Don't ask me to break the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to plead whether or not you want to get hurt by the Rules of Procedure in voting day. (Saša Milenić: Yes. ) Replica, Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29539	I have to say, I'm not completely satisfied with the answers, and I'd like to ask the minister about this next thing. We have information that yesterday's government, and I believe that you were at the government, one of the points was under the designation "confidential" – the assignment of the part of the airport "Nikola Tesla" "Etihadu". Is that true? If it's not true, say it's not true, because the government shouldn't be working undercover. Maybe there's some reason why we can't know what's at that point. I don't know why, but you can't hide that dot exists or doesn't exist. Is this point on the agenda and, if so, why there is a foundation that there is confidentiality of that point and, if possible, tell us if it is possible that after JAT Airways, which is renamed "Er Serbia", someone has suddenly received 49%, and has not invested a broken dinar in that company, for now, that someone without any investment gets a share, if you want monopolies, a pair of extras for international transport, for the capital, there is only one place where you can land, and that is the airport "Nikola Tesla"? Is that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29540	Minister Krstic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29541	Thank you. You know perfectly well that I cannot tell you what has been discussed at the points of "confidential" in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29542	The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. He's not here. Vladimir Ilic, he's not here. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29543	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us the most important law to be discussed in the National Assembly. Why? Because the economy and the economy are the foundation of a single state. Why is this law the most important for the MPs and also for the citizens of Serbia? Because the economy and the economic development of one country is the foundation of every country. The quality of this foundation depends on the life of every individual and every citizen in the country. Of course, by coming to power, the foundation did not find it healthy, largely damaged and destroyed. By empowering this foundation and by laying the foundations of sound foundations, because the economy can only be healthy and harmful by its own measures and by its effects compared to its citizens, there will certainly be improvements in the quality of each citizen. Of course it's not hard and it's not easy and of course it can't happen in a year. I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Minister, on your courage, for giving you an open and transparent view of the real situation in one way, for not pushing one thing under the carpet, but for bringing it all out in a transparent manner, for the people's MPs, as well as for the citizens of Serbia. Only by pulling things under the carpet, facing real problems and finding ways to solve them can this country and citizens of Serbia move forward. Economic policy in 2014 is planned towards fiscal stabilisation and through measures of economic recovery, fiscal consolidation and structural reforms that must be implemented in all segments of our society. For the economic recovery and economic development of our country, it is of paramount importance to create a safe and stable business environment. This is what is of great interest to domestic investors, but also to foreign investors. How is safety achieved, among other things, security and predictability of the business environment? First, through the adoption of adequate legislation. The second thing is also a major impact on economic development, it is the conclusion of the privatisation process, which should go through the process of restructuring and bankruptcy and of course, and in this segment, through the adoption of legislation, which is the question of the Law on privatisation and the Law on bankruptcy. Also, what I want to emphasise, which is aimed at the country's economic recovery, is the professionalisation of public enterprises and responsible corporate governance in enterprises where the state has a stake, but at the same time, the removal of social policy from public enterprises in the sphere of social protection. Finally, we must not forget that for the recovery of the economy, zero tolerance is necessary for non-compliance with the law, corruption and crime, which should be implemented through reformed system institutions. One government shows its responsibility, and I consider this government responsible, with my relationship to the poorest category of population, and these are socially endangered citizens of our Republic. In this respect, in relation to these citizens, which are beneficiaries of the right to financial welfare, beneficiaries of the second person's allowance for assistance and care, users of the right to increased assistance and care for other persons, children without parental ageing located in foster families and social protection institutions can expect stability and sustainability of funding, as the government predicted in Article 35 that economic policy in the social separation work in 2014 would not change compared to 2003. Also, I would like to point out that in function 70, under economic classification 463, local self-government funds are planned and are planned for those poor to improve social protection services at local level. I also find that very important. Further, in function 70, and in economic classification 481, funds for the operation of folk cuisines in 75 cities and municipalities and distribution of hygiene packages and food packages in 105 units of local self-government are also planned. What I would also like to point out is that these are the funds provided in function 40, which relate to family and children and those users of the child's allowance, the users of maternity care, child care and child care, in economic classification 472, and in function 40 47 billion and 250,000 dinars are approved. This is not only relevant from the social aspect, but also important from the demographic aspect. I would also like to commend the 90 function relating to the budget plans for the protection of disabled persons, which is in fact the financing of alliances that Serbia has 32 and the financing of the association of local self-government people with disabilities, in order to improve the quality of life of these people. We all know that social policy in a causal and consequential relationship with economic policy, that separations in the work for the socially endangered population can only be greater if the economic policy is healthier and the country's economic progress is better. I hope that by achieving your economic goals, which is the stabilisation of public debt, that is economic growth through investment and exports, but also the growth of employment in the real sector, there will also be an increase in isolation for the socially most vulnerable population. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the budget in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29544	The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29545	Dear Mr. Arsenovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of dear friends, the discussion of the 2014 budget takes days, speakers are replaced, arguments and eloquent, income and expenditure parties are attacked equally convincingly and defended. For a reason, there is a reference to economy and agriculture, subsidies, VAT, industry, exports, GDP, imports, deficits, and nobody, if I miss it, I apologize to that caring man, nobody mentioned education and culture. I believe you all know who Dosei and Uncle Jova Dragon are. I don't believe you know the name of the largest Serbian potato manufacturer in history, which does not diminish its importance and importance. About two million people are directly involved in the education and culture of this country, dear friends. So, every fourth resident in Serbia. They are champions, eighth graders, teachers, teachers, aunts, high school girls, doctors, assistants, teachers, composers, actors, writers, painters, librarians, directors, singers, elites of a country and almost 90% of its youth and its future, just as you are young, Mr. Minister. How do we treat that unrequited fact? Excuse me, Mr. Arsenovic, if I disturb Mr. Stefanovic and the DS gentlemen, may I interrupt? I'm really sorry if I bother you, but I'll wait for you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29546	I'd like to ask Mr. DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29547	Most kindly, I'm asking you to make up for my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29548	I'll make it up to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29549	Thank you. So I'll repeat, one country's elite in almost 90% and its youth and future. How do we treat that future and that fact? I'm afraid I'm ignoring and almost despised. Money intended for culture, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, is being measured. Money for education, science and technological development of a country is barely 17%. Dear Mr. Minister, none of you expect to spend money on a Philharmonic building like this, which is the only one we have in Europe. None of you, Mr. Minister, at times like this expect to spare money for a national opera building, which is the only one we have in Europe. But if we share poverty, then we don't share it so that some of them are poor and others are poor. Dear Mr. Minister, the difference between poverty and poverty, you'll admit, it's huge. This is best testified by Viktor Ego, whom you will agree to not remember as a factory of rigel flour, but as a writer of "Poors". After all, if Europe is the starting point of all outcomes, this sacred political altar, according to which we crawl so unconstitutionally, something we see in everything, why does this reflection, dear friends disappear when it comes to education and culture? Or is Europe like a nosedrop, we take it only when it is politically necessary? Dear Mr. Lazar, your great noun, with a strange last name of Pachu, probably or almost certainly the most successful finance minister this country has ever had, when King Peter asked for his abbey in advance for the next year to fix the roof of the house that he was sneezing, answered the king, Your Majesty, I do not give it. So, not euphemistically, without any euphemism, no – we do not have, not the time, Your Majesty, but – I do not give. When Peter First told him that he knew that he had recently given money to the university, the great Lazar Pachu answered him – Majesty, a state without a crown can, hard, but it can, and without enlightenment, not. Can you, Mr. Baptizer, and I wish you with all my heart to say to your highness, I do not give? Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I know you're Nischlia. Now you've settled in the order of those in which the city of Nis is recognized. Do you know who Nisha's most famous resident is? It's not you, it's not two Prime Ministers from Nis, not even Constantine, not many others. Nischli's most famous is Nischlika and his name is Zone Zamfirova. She, like the literary fiction of the great Stevan Sremec, entered the heart of all written Serbs. The most famous Serbian glory is not St. Nicholas's, but Ivkov's glory. The two of them, Ivko and Zona, celebrate Nis and the homeland more than everyone else together. They not only testify about their time, but become the continual insignation of one mentality, one space, one city, one language, one nation. We came in and humiliated by the great brothers, farmers in co-operation with Suleiman and other pashas and bimbas, again in the situation of speaking Turkish again, again that on these few hundred Turkish words we use new ones, combining them with Indian and Portuguese. In our lives, dear Mr. Minister, Indian brides, Mexican dignitaries, Turkish shipowners entered, and came out Dučić, Shantic, Zmaj, Jaksic, Nejegos, whose 200-year-old we did not want or should not have marked any single billiard competition. Now we are in an offensive and completely paradoxical situation, persuading and asking each other if we need culture and education at all? As if in conflict with collagen and silicones, we had agreed to defeat in advance, turned into a offensive, gave up the idea and attitude that for a time we were not remembered for Milki Planinc but for Ivo Andric, not for your country's Prime Minister Dragisa Cvetkovic, but for Branislav Nusic. After all, who today, dear friends, knows who the Prime Minister was when Crnjanski wrote "Seobe"? We are in no condition, Mr. Minister, to be remembered by the descendants by the new buildings of the Serbian Philharmonic or Opera, by the new college buildings, schools, propriety. But they don't have to remember us as a generation who, like a undertaker, nailed the last nails into a coffin before these two native sisters buried in the same cancer. And if we bury art and culture, who will tell us who we are, where we're going and where we're going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29550	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29551	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, at this difficult time by country and people, inherited after years of democracy, it's really hard to be smart or the smartest but, as ugly as it may be, it's hard to hear from the finance minister, the economy minister and the entire government something that is true and what is reality, however painful and difficult it is to admit that our budget is in such a critical situation and such a major deficit, it's very difficult to fill it. How to fill the budget from an empty state in which everything that has had for these few years of democracy or 10, 12 years of democracy has been destituted and sold out, if we exclude that period before, another 10 years? A simple calculation can be made, if the majority of the government in one parliament numbers 126 people and if they were in power for a total of 12 years, with a simple calculation of up to 1,500 parliamentary years of government that practically ran out of Serbian businesses, the factories that produce and fill the budget have disappeared, the factories that give people salaries and which, after that, spend their budgets. We heard from various speakers during the day that experts of various professions knew all this before. They were not allowed to apply their knowledge. For those 12 years, it was a short time to apply all this luxuriant knowledge and to get that knowledge into the budget. I'd really like to hear the data on how much the inflow has increased since 2000 or maybe before, since 1990-1991, but it seems to me it's negative. How can a budget from a non-working economy be filled, from a public sector that spends unearthed, if you take the most banal examples of subsidies given for agriculture, which you take out of nowhere and you give to no one, because by the time they reach those end-users, much of them are defended and gone? Recently, in a chachasic neighborhood in front of TV cameras, a farmer irradiated a hectare, two, a cabbage, with which he does not know what to do. I think it's a big problem for both right now and for this government that the agricultural products our farmers are raising, and they don't know what to do with them. Maybe you should think about the subject, not just giving advance subsidies, because they raise as-so, and then they have no one to sell. As far as the public sector is concerned about what's called medicine, you'll see that anyone who comes to the infirmary and hands over an untrusted book makes a bigger panic with that sister and the staff than that untrusted book puts a snake in a raise, because everyone attacks on that staff who has received a dying man without a certified book. And who's to blame for him having a certified or untrustworthy book? I think it's easy to answer – these 12 years of misery and accident. A little while ago we heard from the Minister of Economy that the state is trying to reduce economic participation at any cost, and that's good for me when what's called debt turns into government capital. But I wonder if it's imperative to get it out of here right now, to sell it right now? Let's say, would it be good to keep Galenika as a state house, because everyone knows that the prices of imported drugs or the prices of domestic drugs in sold factories, strategic or non-strategic partners are certainly four to five times higher than the prices that Galenika can make at the moment? I really think you should think about that. Someone mentioned earlier that a young doctor has nothing to look for now, because of these measures being taken. I think that young doctors for many years, at least 10, have nothing to look for, and at least six or seven years back, all the fellow doctors will remember that specializations have been banned in this country, so our departments with specialists and subspecies are light on the extremity, as far as personnel are concerned. It's been said that they're crazy provisions to limit wages. In the previous four years or five, the salary of a specialist doctor without that so-called. Insane provisions or restrictions, the salary would in itself be reduced from some 1,000 euros to 600 to 700. There was no provision, but I guess it was a magic wand that someone was able to defuse. So we have a nominally and without provisions and regulations far greater wage reduction for doctors who are probably still using their enthusiasm and Hippocratic oaths to keep what has been unsustainable for many years. If one managed to reduce the number of employees by 400,000 from 2008 to 2012, or how someone entered the controversy, he said 300,000, but no matter how much, it was a real result for those people who did it, and to increase the debt rate from 30% to 58%. For that reason, I want the happiness of this government who has the courage to get into these problems and admit what the situation is. In voting day, of course, we'll support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29552	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29553	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers from Nis, my fellow citizen, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, and this time I will talk about the health problem and the problem of Serbian citizens who are being treated in a very bad system that we are trying to mask. The health ministry says it is not the exact information that the European Commission and the EU have said that our health care is the last on the European continent. I'll start with the first sentence that this budget provides, which is a reduction in the salary of doctors, people who keep social peace, as a colleague said just before, to people whose salary hasn't been increased in the last seven, eight years. You will save about 12 billion dinars by saving and impacting the health system. For these 12 billion dinars, you won't do much to fix that hole in the budget, and you're doing a lot of damage to doctors, the health care system in financial terms. What's more important than pay, we used to receive two marks to two and a half marks during the 1990s. Doctor's salary is not as much a problem as a ban on the employment of young doctors. As a professor of medical school, and as a doctor, I draw your attention to this great problem. You fled Serbia in a desire to find a job. What is now done clearly sends messages to young medical students, while you are on the second, third year instead of anatomy, instead of pathology, instead of internal medicine, learning German, Norwegian, and leaving Serbia. I think it's very bad to keep investing big money in the education of young people and then our best children treat the citizens of Germany, Norway and other countries. We need to understand that this message sends a clear signal to them to leave the country. What is more important, by banning the employment of doctors by 2015, we already have a lack of doctors, we now have a smaller percentage of doctors than they have European countries, according to European standards, standards of the World Health Organization, we should have more doctors and more nurses. If you forbade a few more years, and your colleague said nicely, a few years ago it was less forbidden and the specializations were not given, we slowly enter a gap, an empty space where we won't have anyone to treat us, in five, six years. I'll tell you that in many clinical centres, here in Nis more than 130 people of primal specialists will retire for the next few years. So, what happens then? You don't have the reception of young doctors, they retire, I ask you as a professor. I need to educate a young doctor for five years. After five years, he will have to work five more years to treat people as an experienced specialist. As soon as the health care system in Serbia boasts, over the past year, it has saved some money in the budget. That money was saved on Serbia's citizens' health. Because there are huge waiting lists in Serbia. No waiting lists, no cataracts, no hip surgery, no stent surgery, no air therapy were resolved. I don't know what the Health Department is doing, and why it doesn't ask for money to solve these problems. I'll tell you, we'll talk through the amendments, it's unacceptable for Serbian citizens in the 21st century to wait, 25,000 Serbian citizens, your parents are in some decent years, they may need surgery, my mother and other mothers and grandmothers, they'll need cataract surgery, they're waiting. One cataract operation is 400 euros. Is it possible that we can't separate 10m euros and solve all these 25,000 Serbian citizens waiting for cataract surgery or is it the wish of certain doctors, directors not to ask for that money, so that they can transfer everything to their private offices and take the money there? If I tell you that in Kragujevac, the hometown of our health minister, hip surgery is scheduled for 2025, so what are we talking about? It's a scandal, a ride, that exists in the health care system. The European Commission has again declared us to have the worst health care for the second year in a row. That's why I'm sending a message to the republican government. Let's not save on citizens' health. So it's inadmissible to say that we don't have the money to treat children, we don't have the money to buy drugs. There is a lack of incompetence and incompetence of individuals in the health system, inability to make public procurement and because of these incompetent people, who do not know how to make centralised public procurement, someone now boasts and says – I have saved. Where did you save up, what did you save up, not a single tender you did this year? I'll tell you what's wrong with you, we're missing the following medicines: sincum, ephthyl, myripan, cellite, flormidal, rivothril, chlorovenicol, atropine, erythromycin; we're short of anticoagulants, diuretics, atropins, adrenalines, antidiabetics. Then our health minister tells us – they don't know anything from Europe, they're not accurate data. Guys, let's understand that people don't have the ability to heal in Serbia, that we don't have the drugs. Now that I'm telling you, as a doctor, I'm no longer reaching out to my knowledge that I acquired in college, but I'm asking my sister -- do we have any medication at the clinic at all, do we have any antibiotics at all? It's a system that's now on stage, running this health care system, that can't make a single tender. As I will slowly conclude this debate, in order for my fellow MPs to have more time, you understand that you must not save on the health of Serbian citizens. This is a classic example of saving on the doctor's budget, saving on the employment of young doctors, saving on the supply of medicines, and it's normal to have corruption, leaving young doctors, and it's normal to have the highest mortality rate in Europe, from cardiovascular diseases and malignancies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29554	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29555	I won't be long. We do not save people's health by cutting salaries to doctors who earn more than 60 grand or those who work in more places, and sometimes including universities. You know perfectly well that my parents are in health care, and they've been cut off as well. We have many domestic friends, I tell you from a personal example, who are also in health care and whose children, my generation, have finished medicine in Nis and elsewhere. As far as I know, they're also children of doctors, professors, and they haven't been able to get a job in years. I doubt that this measure, which is selective, will leave no one to the clinic without an anesthesiologist, is not intent, is quite a mutilation of what has worked right so far, and if it has worked properly, and it has not, and it has to change, that is, the whole health system in order to reduce these performance indicators, so that according to these performance indicators, or failures, at this point, we can adequately rank those who work in health care and address those parts of the health system where the problems exist, are burning and affecting in the worst possible way, so that we can adequately channel the money where it is needed. The situation is devastating. The measures we are taking will not significantly worsen this situation, given that it is very bad, moreover, I don't think it will make it significantly worse, and it will create one basis for healthy reform and for setting up a system for healthy legs, where we will know what health systems we are going to go to and how it will work, so that we don't have these devastating results, which you quoted in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29556	The word has the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29557	Dear Minister, I'll tell you a few things I didn't say in the previous presentation. So I don't agree with you that it won't give harmful effects to ban the reception of young doctors. If we have something valuable in Serbia, if we have anything left of our failed privatisations, we have knowledge. You've directed that knowledge and you've trained abroad, you've come back and you're helping the country here. Understand that the best of our children on this employment ban by 2015, we already have an anesthesiologist deficit, radiologist, surgeon, pathologist. You don't understand, although your parents are doctors, I know them personally... The problem is, the minister isn't responding. I'm surprised by the minister. You have four, five years of no specialization, and now you've been blocked for three, four years. Guys, we really won't have anyone to treat us. It's terrible that this is how you let our kids leave. I'll tell you something else, you say – we're saving, we don't have money, but I'll tell you the same thing in many clinical centres, in many health homes, where your directors are, you're mass receiving party staffs that aren't doctors, so no one mentions doctors, but you're receiving a mid-term, you're receiving primary school. If you realize that, you're very smart, I appreciate you, we've got buried medical institutions with nonmedical personnel. The low clinical center has 2/3 non-medical personnel of medical personnel. So that's unsustainable. We need to do an analysis of who we need to receive, who we don't need to receive. I would ask that party employment, party staffing, as far as health care is concerned, is no longer working in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29558	The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must confess to myself that I have never met such an exact and naked fact about our current economic situation before in similar materials. I would set out a fiscal strategy for 2014 with projections for next and 2016. I have to admit, I've never encountered a problem presentation in any document the way it was done in this document before. Maybe it's a bit of an earthquake, maybe it's too much of a qualification, but I'm willing to defend the views that it's very close to it. And independent, let alone interested observers, simulated public debt projections by 2026 with other parameters on the 53rd material on the fiscal strategy, can find a lot of flaws and grudges, starting with projected parameters, realisation deadlines, offered assumptions, the risk of execution and so forth, but one impression cannot be denied. Reliable analytical basis, impeccable mathematical models and based on them one conclusion – if we do not go into an energetic action for change, we are followed by an imminent economic fiscal and financial collapse. If nothing is done after the simulation, the public debt would be as much as 77.4% of GDP in 2016 and would become unsustainable. But in addition to the measures that have somehow begun and whose application is proposed and expected, the simulated public debt that same year will be 69.8% of GDP. Further projection to e.g. In 2025, it shows its descent into a legal framework of 45% and difficult and long, but at least encouraging. There is also a question of the measures to be taken and this question can be approached from different aspects and orientations, but it is not disputed that the initiator and the proponent of these documents and how he was aware of the scale and procedure of change. It is therefore not disputed that Chapter 4 of the fiscal strategy is precisely entitled – structural reforms from 2014 to 2016, i.e. the reform of the business environment, the reform of the building permit system, i.e. the improvement of the investment environment, the resolution of the problems identified by privatisation, and the structural reform of the public sector, which involves reforms of the state administration, reforms of the system of education, health care systems, reform of the pension system, reform of the social protection system, reform of the enterprises in restructuring, reform of the system of subsidies, public enterprises, etc. It would take us a long way only to list activities in all these areas that should be implemented. Only today, it seems to me, has no one mentioned that the most needed of all reforms in this country is reform, above all, awareness, reform of habits and thinking. Really, yesterday and today, it seems to me that both the minister and the other minister who were present here and are working on it. Just commenting on the items in the documents would take a lot of time. We can only imagine how much effort and time has been put into making and completing them, and that is why initiators and creators of them really need to give recognition. Just one brief comment. Total revenue and revenue from the draft budget law were planned at 929,9 billion with a nominal growth index of 106,5 compared to the 2013 budget rebalance. In agreement with the total expenditure and issuances, together with the cost of purchasing the deficits' funding, are planned at 1.112.5 billion dinars and a nominal growth index of 105.5. If we compare this data to the planned inflation rate, the conclusion is that there is no additional global burden for next year. In individual expenditure positions, subsidies of 96.5, transfers to other levels of government with a 96.3 index will practically result in a real reduction. It's a restrictive component. In doing so, it is not intended to leave someone without funds, but to activate both at the level of local self-government and at the level of users subsidies as much as possible the use of their own fiscal and economic capacity and potentials. Costs for 103.2 employees will also fall realistically because of inflation, even if there are no changes in that part. However, here it should be borne in mind that on the basis of a degree of taxation above certain profit thresholds, profits will be further reduced, and budget revenues will increase by an estimated figure of 12 billion. On the other hand, capital expenditure is planned at 51.9 billion dinars, with a nominal growth index of 153,3 and that is the essence and development components of the budget. The change in the way of investment and programming budgeting, starting in 2015, are significant qualitative shifts. The only budget expenditure with real growth, without any doubt, is interest-based expenditure, which is planned with 114 billion and a 124.3 growth index. The total budget deficit of 161.2 billion, i.e. the total fiscal deficit of 182.6 billion, will be covered, unfortunately, by a new debt of 662.6 billion, with 480 billion being used to pay off existing debts. It is clear that public debt, which is 19.1 billion euros, will increase further. However, it is quite consistent with the projections and it is the inevitable moment if we do not want deep earthquakes. This budget also hides the danger, due to the fact that the creators of the current economic development and fiscal policies will, with the strength of the arguments that have been placed in the documents, be in an unembarkable position. In that situation, they remain to burn down trees and stones by everything offered. But I am deeply convinced that this must not be a moment for each other's bickering. On the contrary, the bitter truths that lie before us require the unity of all forces from this Parliament, because it is not this party or that party, this or that vision of things. It's all of us, it's Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29560	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. You've got six minutes to spare.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29561	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, in the light of this draft budget, you have given a small look at the international economic context, the economic situation, which in any case affects, if not predestines Serbia's economic position, and its budget accordingly. You stuck to the parameters and figures given by the IMF, perhaps quite rightly. It says nicely that forecasting global growth is 3.6% for 2014, and forecasts for economic growth in the EU are 1.5% for the Union as a whole and 1% for the euro area. Here the IMF, when comparing these numbers with those given in the EU itself, estimates for 2014, gave little wind in the back of the Union. As projected to grow from zero to one percent in 2012, the Union was still in recession. It had 0.5% in the whole of the Union, and minus one percent in growth for the euro area. If you just look at these numbers and exempt the EU from these global development projections for 2014, you will conclude that this development without a union is far greater, because the Union, with its stagnation, draws that average towards a smaller number. That's 3.6. Why am I saying this? Because Serbia has tied itself to the Union in its economic relations, trade relations and the whole perspective. The Union has been in recession for five years. So, next year, in 2014, it enters the sixth year of recession without the perspective of leaving such a single state. He has terrible public debt problems, Member States' budget deficits and control of these deficits by the commission. There is no development budget for Serbia as long as it is strategically related to the EU and there is the problem. There is also a problem of planning and income and expenditure and trade balances or imbalances, etc. Only an example works, this issue of Ukraine, it actually has a better offer of Russia in trade, in any material respect to the EU. Russia received the Union by means of a clean calculation, hence the account by the Ukrainian Government and hence its refusal to sign the Association Agreement. This is all that happens next is, let me say, pure politics. That's what I'm saying because it's not a perspective for Serbia and this budget is a thrift budget because the EU is also making savings budgets. It is simply that Serbia is in all of this mimicring a far lower degree of economic development and all of it. Thus, in the part of this budget relating to that free EU aid to Serbia, the consequences of such a one-state situation are seen. The pre-accession aid that the Union has been giving Serbia since 2008 has fallen rapidly for 2013 and 2014, from around 205 million to 160m euros, and today, when you add it all together, the projection for 2014 is the same. Therefore, it is not important now to get big money based on pre-accession assistance, but this is an indicator of the poor choice of the economic partner, the country's strategic choice. The question arises as to where in that Article the 4th component of which the Union gives you money, then sets aside for the growth of the administration or for strengthening the administration of some 120m and some million, so for the growth of cross-border co-operation of 19 million, when the Union in its budget plan for 2014-2020 for pre-accession assistance, where it plans completely differently, without these components, in the end, the Union owes Serbia already from the moment Serbia became a candidate in March 2012, the funds for those other three components it did not give while it was in pre-candidate status. Why? Because she didn't have any money. Now, these are the problems of our economy in general, which result in the budget that we have and which is, by the way, unrealistically planned and very likely, we will also go to the rebalancing of this budget. Just a few more words about the part of the Kosovo and Metohija budget. As the government has eliminated Kosovo and Metohija from its own, so to speak, the state framework, so is this budget reflex. Mr. Krstic, you're not an accountant in this government. You're a minister, so a political official of a political authority. Please note that you are participating in this process of creating this budget. As far as Kosovo is concerned, it is an empty form. It is something behind which there is nothing realistic, even compared to the 2013 budget. There are no transfer funds for municipalities in Kosovo. Only one procedure is mentioned for granting orders to carry out obligations in Kosovo. Not mentioned in Article 33 areas where these money will be spent. There is also no mention of the users' table of funds, which was all in 2013 and, finally, the budget is lower by one billion. This is the equivalent of the state policy seen in this budget in the same way as that state policy. Kosovo has also been released into the budget through a series of water, as has been done in state policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29562	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29563	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the refugee association coalition will support the draft budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for two reasons in the voting day. The first reason is because this budget is real and is indeed an expression of the difficult socio-economic situation in which our country is located. On the other hand, because the Serbian government shows its determination to implement essential reforms and create an ambience to address the key issue of Serbian citizens, which is the issue of unemployment. We welcome the government's efforts to reduce the grey economy, increase tax collection, address the issue of public enterprises and create an ambience to bring about the greatest inflow of foreign investment. Of course, it is necessary to pass a set of laws, such as the law on bankruptcy, the Law on privatisation, and in particular the Law on Planning and Construction. We particularly welcome the adoption of a set of judicial laws that should contribute to the creation of an effective judiciary that is one of the key elements of creating an environment for the inflow of foreign investment. I would briefly focus on two more questions about the budget. It is a question of Serbs in the region and a question of refugees and exiled persons. The position of Serbs in the region is very difficult. I particularly want to highlight the issue of Serbs in Croatia and Serbs in the Federation of BiH, who are in a very difficult position. Serbs in Croatia and Serbs in the Federation of BiH are second-class citizens. The main problem is discrimination in the legislation and behaviour of competent state authorities. I particularly highlight the example of an anti-Serbian campaign that has been going on in Croatia for months. That is why I would like to particularly welcome the decision of the Serbian and Mr Mrkic Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has sent one document to all of our DKP in the world to meet the international public with numerous incidents, stripping and breaking bilingual boards, and that the government of the Republic of Serbia is helping to address the issue of Serbs in Croatia in one mutually acceptable way. A special problem is also the position of Serbs in the Federation of BiH, especially in the Usko-Savski Canton, especially in Lebanon's Canton number of Serbs, and we expect the Serbian government, as it intends to raise the issue with official Sarajevo and to resolve the issue in the coming period. As for refugees and exiled persons, I would like to point out that there are 300,000 expelled Serbs living in Serbia from Croatia, 200,000 expelled Serbs from the Federation of BiH, more than 200,000 internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. The government shows its readiness through its institutions to resolve the issue, and we expect a permanent dialogue with official Zagreb and Sarajevo to be launched and that the issue of property, the question of missing persons, the issue of war crimes will come to the agenda and that a fair and lasting solution to these problems will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29564	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29565	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to give you the courage to come to parliament with a sure proposal for the worst budget since 2000 and to defend it against MPs, given that there is no item in the budget that guarantees progress or better life in any segment of public life or state of Serbia. Given that I know what the Ministers' reactions to this budget are, first of all, I want to say that as someone who has managed the defence system for nearly six years, I would draw attention to the almost unacceptable budget for the defence system, that the funds that are intended for investment are minor and that sooner or later this budget will endanger the defence system, which is really bad news for all those who care about this country and who, today and now, are taking care of the security of our citizens every day. On the other hand, we have heard how many bad implications there are for health, or health care, of such a proposal. I'd like to highlight a few other things that aren't apostrophe, and they're very important. With tax changes in Serbia's parliament, the government has abolished almost 20% of earnings based on profit tax through local self-government. All local self-governments in Serbia, regardless of which parties they are led and who is in power, have smaller resources. You're predicting a reduction of another 2,000 million dinar transfers to local self-government. Local self-government got into aging and regional roads, so someone imagined that 500,000 dinars could be maintained a kilometer of regional road, which is absolutely impossible. Regardless of who runs local self-government, I expect that all those responsible for their citizens and the environments they come from do not support this kind of budget proposal, because it is disastrous for them and their neighbors who voted for them to represent their interests here today. Mr. Minister, I'm only going to look back on what I think is extremely important, and that's a farmer or farmer in this country. I'll give you some information concerning 2012 and 2013, and then you'll explain to me why the transfer, i.e., the agrarian subsidies, are being reduced by nearly three thousand million dinars, or three billion dinars? I say three thousand million, since those billions are not close to the farmer, they're not even millions, but, 3,000 million, it's definitely something that's extremely big. In 2012, the price of corn was 27 dinars, last year it was 12.5 dinars. So, this government was paying for corn 12.5 dinars even though the repromatter was up by 30%, and the oil went up by 20%. The sunflower was 55 dinars in 2012; last year it was more than twice as cheap as 25 dinars. The price of grain in 2012 was 21 to 27 dinars, and last year 16 dinars. How do you think you can recover agrarian and agriculture in Serbia, if you allow the funds allocated to agriculture in this year to be less than three thousand million dinars? This country doesn't have a lot of resources, but each agriculture is one of the most important and if you have this relationship with agriculture, I'm afraid the result will be catastrophic by next year, not just for agriculture, but for all those who depend on agriculture. On the other hand, you are reducing the money that is allocated through subsidies for agriculture, and you are planning to put the country in debt by about 6.5 million euros, practically 6.5 billion euros. We've been listening for a year now that this government is yours and the previous one, which is also yours, has been in debt to pay back the old debt, and we've come into the situation that with 15 billion euros, 15 billion euros, today we owe more than 20 billion with this debt you're planning. You'll probably pay back some interest, but it'll go way beyond 22 or 23 billion euros, which will be the record Serbia has ever had. The expenditure on interest payments is rising by as much as 20 billion dinars, by about 23%. Compared to the 2013 rebalancing, expenditure based on the repayment of capital growth by 31.1 billion dinars means ten times as much as you reduce subsidies to farmers. All of this indicates that the budget you proposed is not developmental, not even social. It's hard for us to politically see what this budget is and in which direction you're actually trying to run this country. I'd like to and I'm sorry that there aren't a few other ministers present here today to tell us if he's satisfied with the way you've deployed this budget, given how badly I have information was very bad at that distribution itself, that people were confused when they got their piece of cake. Everything's more or less on the budget, but I have a question for you. Politics is not and should not be personal, however, there is something in politics that is personal. As a man who returned to Serbia, as someone who had graduated from college abroad, you gave hope and confidence to understand your finances. I'm not one of those ad hoc people who respects knowledge, until that knowledge is verified through some applied activities, but I'm curious, because I'm saying this is since I've been working on parliamentaryism, or in 2000, the worst budget, whether after the end of your term, your mandate will be shorter because of these proposals, do you plan to stay in this country, live or plan to go back where you came from? I'm very interested in that, because if you're planning on coming back after the crash because of this budget, it's not fair or correct, and if you're planning on staying, then congratulations and I say, congratulations on your courage. I think you really need to have great courage to go to parliament today and convince us that this budget, which in about three years' time, will reduce the standard of living by 7.8%, especially the pensioner, should be acceptable to a party like PUPS, I really don't understand, and I'm telling you that we certainly won't vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29566	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29567	We've talked about these previous budget reviews mostly, borrowing through agrarians. I don't know if you were there when he was. Just to answer this personal question, if we implement this budget and if we show the Markofical responsibility that we're about to show with this budget, after this reconstruction, I plan to stay here. And of course, but not under other conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29568	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Miodrag Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29569	Can you just tell us how much time we have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29570	There are 19 minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29571	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kovac. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened with great care to the part that concerns education, science and education in particular, and listened to your presentation and presentation of your colleague Radulovic about the departure of young people. I just have to correct you for accuracy, and unfortunately we're second place young people go. The only African state of Guinea-Bissau is ahead of us by the outflow of these young experts. It's a paradox in that whole story. Only about 800 left this country this year. If we know that the annual separation of our country for the education of one doctor on an annual basis is about 3,000 euros. For one engineer, it's about 1650 euros. So, on the one hand, we're schooling, on the other hand we're sending abroad as a finished product where it's definitely going to be accepted, which is a really big paradox for our country. We've got another paradox, and it's not just a drain of those young people on an annual level of about 31,000, and we've got the printing of fake diplomas. According to the Ministry of Education, every tenth diploma is falsified. That's what comes next to leaving young people is the next danger that awaits our country. You've got universities in this country, you've got out-of-state departments that don't have credentials. Just for the sake of information, 15 outcasts have accreditation, over 100 have no accreditation, which means that the control that needs to be carried out everywhere, especially in high schools, or universities and universities. There are only 14 inspectors in the whole country who do that. That's why we've submitted that amendment and I'd like you to take another look. It is that the accreditation committee approves the funds so that they can do their job, because next year 2014, is again the fifth year when they have to go into the control and verify accreditation. So from this point on, I ask you once again to look at this amendment and grant funds to the Accreditation Commission so that they can do their job. We have another problem, and that's a problem that unfortunately in the budget looks like an increase in budgets, in fact, it's no increase, it's a budget for science. You'll correct me if I'm wrong, 14.1 billion dinars are planned for science, but what's not mentioned is that a huge portion of these funds go for wages, and what's unfortunately not mentioned is the part that relates to direct material costs. You know, you've studied abroad, and you know how important science is, especially that translation that deals with the translation of dry science into one product. Serbia is somewhere in the last place in Europe by the number of patents reported. If you put those numbers on paper, our scientist has 300 euros a year. So, with that 300 euros, I'll read you what he has to survive, or 25 euros a month. It is expendable office material, participation in conferences, travel expenses, scholarships to postgraduate students, consumable laboratory material and maintenance of experiments. So with 25 euros, a monthly scientist in Serbia should conduct an experiment and produce a product that will be more competitive in the world. As someone 20 years of science, I think this science budget is clear below every sustainability threshold. You remember yourself that this summer there were strikes of scientists here in our country. I really don't remember, I don't remember when thousands of scientists went out into the streets looking for their basic rights, which is to do their job. So in that amendment, I ask you to look again and fix the science-related budget, and return it to the level that was in 2010. So that's what it is, as far as I know and it's agreed with the Science Union and the Ministry of Education, that's what it is with the former Minister of Education, so that people can really do their jobs, not get out of this country and look for their jobs, or their own opportunities somewhere else. We're losing the elite of this society, and these are at the top of that education pyramid are really scientists. This concludes, with this appeal to consider these two items. So, accreditation and to consider raising the budget for science, and thus also for education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29572	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Excuse me, before you Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29573	Thanks for these suggestions. We've already moved to draft a budget bill with the Science Union and the Ministry of Education. We also increased direct material costs, that second group more than was the case in 2013. We didn't make it this year. for 2014, taking into account the overall situation to raise them to 2010 level, but the dynamics agreed to come by 2010. And also, I'm just saying that they're going to start paying off the Ceba loan that also covers one part, we're in trouble, not the same materials and not the same costs, but there's a significant cross-section of those two, and there are significant funds defined for next year. As regards the Accreditation Commission, there were discussions with the Ministry of Education and they were within what is possible, and of course not too much and taking into account the distribution of the funds themselves within the Ministry of Education defined as much as they considered possible at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29574	Thank you. Miodrag Stojkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29575	I thank you for this notice. So, if I understand you correctly, the Accreditation Commission will get its resources to do their job normally. Is that right? So that's settled with the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, as far as science is concerned, I have to tell you that it is an increased budget of 6.4%, but the expenditure has been increased by 7%. We're back in one mild minus as far as science is concerned. So if you look at the size of our country's science budget, it goes from 0.34% to 0.41%) depending on whether it counts with or without credit, and if we look at countries in the environment, say, Croatia stands out 0.7%, and if we look at how much it is at EU level where we all want to go is at 2.0%. Another piece of information, all those countries in crisis have always invested in science in the first place to get out of the crisis. There's this good saying, you're a Yale student, and this is the saying of one Harvard professor -- if you don't invest in knowledge, try to invest in ignorance, because this other one must cost more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29576	Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29577	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, has been doing its first rebalancing in some way since the adoption of the 2014 budget by the government by giving its own amendments to the budget it has just drawn up. Apparently, the government in the nightmare between ignorance and incompetence has offered citizens the best budget in the name of which is the word – criminal. Why? Because since its founding, this government has been constantly experimenting with its citizens and out of its own negligence, care and ignorance is doing more than amateur economic experiments that are increasingly unsuccessful, and every new attempt is a difficult defeat for the citizens of Serbia. This government has designated 140,000 workers as surplus in the public sector. That means he'll be fired every fourth doctor, judge, cop, soldier, tutor, teacher, professor, miner. In its criminal budget, the government plans to fire the first 60,000 people in 2014 and projections are that due to reduced demand and reduced economic activity, there will be another 40,000 people without a job. It's a total of 100,000 people in 2014. For that purpose, you singled out over 20 billion dinars for severance. On the other hand, in addition to this government firing workers, we must acknowledge that this government is highly employed. Mr. Minister, instead of Serbian citizens, party champions are hired. Of over 30,000 employees of party champions. The Serbian Progressive Party employs more than 20,000 people in a year and a half at various levels of power. Only the town of Novi Sad has in a year and a half how many SNS there have enriched both city administration and city enterprises for thousands of party activists. The government is acting as the largest party employer in Serbia's history. It therefore increases its expenditure on the salaries of party champions by over 200m euros. The government's budget for 2014 directly takes 350m euros from citizens' pockets and that money has been taken from citizens through a net wage reduction in the public sector and an increase in value added tax from 8% to 10%. Also, one brilliant idea came up with this government to fill the budget by raising the value added tax from 8% to 20% on computers that it considers to be luxury goods. In the 21st century, the government considered computers to be luxury goods and thus became inaccessible to citizens while everywhere in the world computer-owned is seen as an incentive for the scientific and educational development of society. That's what this government obviously doesn't think. Budget revenues will be low due to too high tax rates and therefore some of the economy is fleeing to the gray zone. Citizens to survive do trade in fleas and other markets. As you know, Mr. Minister, fleas and markets don't fill the state's register. The drop in purchasing power of our citizens is 7.9% lower this year. In this year, it will reduce the collection of unreally expected taxes. Even such an unprofessional government certainly knows that the constant decline in the standard of living of Serbian citizens gives a proportional drop in revenues in the RS budget. The Democratic Party will never be an opposition that collects its votes in criticism and populism, and therefore we give you a prescription of what you should do. Instead of using 600m euros for severance and firing workers, we say you invest and hire people, give them a chance to get a job by investing 600m euros in 20 regional economic centres in Serbia. The Democratic Party is asking this government to stop this criminal budget, punishable primarily for Serbian citizens and to stop borrowing. It will be 10 billion euros at this pace by the end of 2014. It is now 2,000 euros per household in Serbia. Mr. Minister, by the end of next year it will be four thousand euros per household in Serbia. This means that by the end of next year, every newborn baby will be owed thousands of euros. The money neither the citizens of Serbia nor the households will be able to spend, they only owe it. You know that very well. Do not spend in vain, but finance exclusively investments, as the City of Belgrade did while it was run by the DS. The comparisons work, Belgrade, until several months ago, had a share of more than 38% for direct investment in its budget. Under 3% of the investment stake is in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So much for the development of Serbia and the developmental character of this budget. It turns out that the only result, since you signed one famous tennis player on a 13-and-a-half-year-old plane, is that the same plane is four to six times a week flying from Belgrade to Abu Dhabi, so it turns out to be sold on average 10 tickets, your successful JAT-Etihad project carries in one plane less passengers than crew members, Mr. Minister. That's why DS won't vote for this criminal budget, especially because it's not in the citizens' interest. He is in the interest of the populist goals of parties in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29578	Replica, Zoran Babic. She's mentioned by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29579	Based on the mention of SNS, be more careful when listening, you wouldn't applaud if you were more careful. We don't need your prescription, Mr. Bozovic, we barely survived your recipe. Why didn't you make business centers when you were able to build business centers? What kind of an ex-wise mind is that? Now you're taking care of your jobs. Are you giving us a prescription on how to get 400,000 new people out of work, like they lost their jobs during the previous government, where your DS was stationary and most responsible? Are you offering us that recipe? No, thank you, we don't need it. This is a sustainability recipe, the sustainability of the 2009 budget, which resulted from the catastrophic budget, where, Mr Bozovic, you burned 60 billion dinars, hoping to see 5% of GDP rise and 5% inflation. Do you know what you gave us? Negative growth, i.e. the decline of the social product by 3.5% and 8.1% inflation, and all of these citizens of Serbia cost 60 billion dinars. Are you offering a recipe by which the same JAT recorded a 55m-euro loss in 2008. But you didn't mind sharing the thirteenth salary, Mr. Bozovic. Now count the passengers. Count them, but tell the citizens of Serbia that you have a problem with foreign partners, that everything new and better gets in the country of Serbia is bothering you. Tell me why you haven't done anything with a deposit that Serbia has deposited to Er Basha in 1998 for $23.5 million... (President: Time, two minutes and 10 seconds. )......................................................................................................... for the planes. Why did you keep your mouth shut for 12 years? Why did you spend 12 years sharing your thirteenth salary, even though you recorded your loss? Is that the recipe you're offering us and the citizens of Serbia? No, thank you, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29580	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. (Borislav Stefanovic: First, Božovic, by name, will be named. I went in the order of applications, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Bozovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29581	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Now it's clear to me that you wrote this budget, not Mr. Krstic. Instead of party employment, this government could not reduce profits to doctors, professors, teachers, educators, through a narcissistic solidarity tax. But party books for this government are much more important than the mere survival of Serbian citizens. You've already shown that. While the government employs the regular numbers of the party's books, at the same time our citizens have been raised by living supplies, and you have no answer to that, Mr. Babic. If the SNS continues with this policy, 2014 will be the worst year in the history of this country, but not for you, Mr Babić, and not for your party soldiers, but for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29582	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. Mr Bozovic is mentioned by his name and you mentioned DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29583	You haven't heard from the shouting you're causing to mention DS. I don't think it's correct to throw it out of place all the time and try to get this nervous, noise and reminder... . You remember that I once really well told you that here in the Assembly people say about you – Zoran previous period Babic and that is, unfortunately, something you keep repeating. I understand that you think it's a successful policy, it's your right. We have asked you here a hundred times – tell us, what have you done since you've been in power, what are your results? The JAT issue and the thirteenth salary, ask your head of the Committee for Co-operation with the Arab Emirates, he then led the company. The matter of security, ask your prime minister. The issue of economics is also asked by the head of the Committee for Co-operation with the Arab Emirates. If we had welcomed the Democrats, we are delighted that you tell us that we are against foreign investment and opening up to the world and progress. Do you realize how much your words confirm our successful policy? If they weren't, you'd be sitting here a little differently dressed, Mr. Granny. You wouldn't be spreading our hands here and talking about Europe, but you'd be talking about some old, horrible things that you don't like to be reminded of. What is saddest, clear arguments and criticisms of the budget and proposals that we have made, you are comical already in Serbia, because you don't know what to say, but you are extracting paper in 2009. The 2009 projection was usually made with the IMF. It's a mental noun for you. You're in power for half the term, gentlemen. You have no idea where you're going, what you're going to... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Which way you're going to take this country. Then when you're told what's wrong, you say 2009. Imagine 1999 getting me out of the bag here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29584	Two minutes and 30 seconds. Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29585	This is an obvious example of running away from responsibility – I want to go to the government, I want chairs, I want good wages, I want all benefits of government, but I don't want responsibility. The partners are responsible. Then ask someone else for anything but responsibility. Always, and at the moment this government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, when I spoke, I asked for a handover. It must be known and clear handovers and obligations and responsibilities must be made and everything found. There's no problem if he's reminded of what's been found. If that's good, it's good, it's great, but we can't run from responsibility. For this Government of the Republic of Serbia, this one will now make the same handover. And constant party employment and a constant invitation to all contracts made during this government, and you estimate them to several tens of thousands, to break those contracts. When did the crisis begin? In 2008, the U.S. That's when you started using the crisis as an excuse. Come on, then, since the crisis started then and in the world, and it didn't even cross us, we in Serbia saw a chance in the crisis, they were all messages from the former government, then come on and I'll be a partner in the conversation, then let's break all the contracts since 2008 for public sector employment. Are we going to do it then? Let's do the proportional time we've spent in some governments. We can't look at reality with one eye. We can't say. It's only happened for the last year and a half. Once you've agreed on how many people this government will fire on your projection. One of your representatives says – 60,000, the other says – 100,000, and now bids at 140,000. Does that depend on the power in your MP group, so what's the estimate and how many people are going to be out of a job?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29586	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29587	It's a really great show. Of course, again based on such an empty story. I have to tell you, don't talk about the currents, because I see mostly of you members of the electricity Tomislav Nikolic. That's why you're having a soft round of applause. But it's already your internal thing and I'm really not going to get involved, I'm not going down to that level. We were responsible for the previous government during the most difficult economic crisis. You're saying it was an excuse for us. What's your excuse now? What's the excuse for your half-failing, disastrous term? You know what your excuse is? A democratic party. If it wasn't for us, you'd already be five games, Mr. Granny. You need a picture to kiss us. Nothing holds you back anymore, except hate and talk about DS. You can't start without a previous period. Just explain to me what the word “come on. ” Just explain to me that I understand. Mr. Babiæ, for the end, when we look at the infamous balance of your work, including your failed, and the brief and lush work in the Water polo alliance, there is nothing, books, brothers, not bells and promenades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29588	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29589	Unlike my brief, in your assessment of the failure, let your stay and staying as president of the Water polo Union of Serbia be a big difference between me and your leader who is on a long and extremely unsuccessful stay as president of the basketball union of Serbia. Why? For the promotion. Because of the desire to promote the sport successfully and well. Where are your successes? Why is that just reserved for you? Why isn't it reserved for anyone else? Why do you attack me with the same ferocity, and then when I ran for office and beat your candidate, he beat me with conviction, why do you attack me with the same ferocity and then when I resigned in order to departize Serbia and departize sports? What's that, then? Personal hatred, nothing else. Because if it's a principle, then we'd say, bravo, master, that's the way it should be, we'd tell our leader to do the same. But no, hate. Then that hatred honors the other side. That's a lot easier. When there are no answers, when on the one hand there is a glass ball in which to see what this government is going to do... Excuse me, please, the only place and only rapper of the quality of one government is the election, gentlemen, the elections you've lost all over the past year and a half, the choices you'll lose in a few days' time in all places. Either way, we show up and no matter how we share us or how we want to be and what format we show up in, we will beat you again, but not because we are, but because the citizens of Serbia no longer trust you. Between that glass ball that you are constantly looking at and the realities in Serbia, and the reality is 400,000 black families because they lost jobs from 2008 to 2012... You're not gonna put a patch on my mouth and I'm not gonna stop talking about it, because it's a little bit of just the political price you paid once, you're gonna pay until these people come back and get a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29590	Mrs. Mehandzic has been waiting too long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29591	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I wish I could say, well-respected ministers, but he's not in the O.R. right now, so I'd like to ask you if you could invite the minister to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29592	As you can see, faster than you could say, the minister is here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29593	Thank you, Minister. The government and the central party of the government - the SNS speak openly and unfortunately leave even written evidence that in the next three years all employees in Serbia will experience a significant drop in living standards and purchasing power. According to the government's projections, inflation in the next three years will be 10.8%, and you are predicting a total increase in pensioners' budgets and all public sector employees by only 3.2%. Let me explain a little bit better. The government is telling all pensioners and all those working for this country and their country that their purchasing power will continue to drop by at least 7% in the next three years, and this comes after a period of 18 months of the government's mandate so far, when purchasing power has already dropped by 5%. So, during the entire term of office, this government will reduce the purchasing power of citizens and I ask you, Mr. Minister, to either confirm or disprove this today, tonight or in some way. It is said from the ruling coalition that the SNS-led government takes special care of the socially endangered and the poorest citizens of Serbia. How long will you do a conscious and deliberate replacement of thesis? Are you proving that you care about the poorest by increasing the price of electricity by 11% after the Energy Minister's announcement that it will be reduced by 20%? Or do you prove your concern for the poorest by raising the price of bread, milk, meat, basic provisions of life, communals, electricity, water, heating? Or this government proves that the most endangered pensioners are concerned that they will not receive so-called pensioners in 2014. 13 pensions, and that was one of the pre-election promises of the ruling coalition? Dear Ministers, the DS is very moody and willing to help solve the problems that arise in the planning of this budget or as a result of the oversight, inconsistencies or laps of individual ministries or government in total. It is fortunate that there are amendments, so at the last minute you have corrected one of the crucial errors that has been undermined in this budget, or in the draft budget. Let me remind you that you forgot to add and predict the means to actively employ the population, so at the last minute you fixed it by investing your own amendment. It concerns the fact that, according to what I had the opportunity to see and hear from the Committee on Education and Science, there was nothing or that there was very little coordination between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Finance. This fact is also witnessed by the dangers that we have successfully avoided, among other things, through the DS amendment, so that it will not happen, that I am coloquially expressing the chaos of 1 January 2014 at state universities, when state universities could happen to remain with only 30% of teaching staff, and that 70% of people who worked as lecturers on 1 January no longer have a job. I am pleased to see that, as far as I can see from the discussion material on the amendments for the coming days, you have also accepted the DS amendment concerning "Petnica", although the same amendment was proposed by a colleague from the URS. I look forward to the discussion in the coming days, when we will have the opportunity to consider the well-intentioned DS amendments that we have submitted, which in some cases correct such predictions, for example. The 2014 budget has not provided the means to implement some of the laws that have been passed during this year, whose implementation begins on 1 January 2014 and are precisely from the domain of education and science. I ask you to look at the materials that we have instructed you, since you obviously don't know what this is about right now, so give us the appropriate answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29594	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29595	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really admire some pessimistic predictions of MPs from the DS. I may have to say that we with the SNS see what this government is going to do with its entire mandate. This government will pay back all its debts it has not created. This government will have to take care of its citizens by avoiding high inflation. This government will have its entire mandate to take care of the dinar course. This government will have to worry about enterprises that haven't been restructured for 12 years. The government will have to look for a job for 400,000 people who lost their jobs during the Mirko Cvetkovic government. The government will have to restore its entire mandate to a country that lost its reputation during the rule of Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic. This government has a lot of work to do to eliminate the consequences of a carelessness, a public service, and an irresponsibleness. That's how we look at SNS. If the citizens chose us to represent them, if we won the elections and founded the government, that means we have to take care of those citizens, not ourselves. (President: Time. If we take care of ourselves, the state will fail, and someone will be richer by a few tenths of a billion. We don't have those in the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29596	Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29597	Mr. Arsic, one correction. Your government will be down by the end of the term. That's what's safe. In a free fall. Speedy. And otherwise the results of your government's work, among other things, are 53,149 economic operators in the blockade in this country, 22,789 enterprises, 30,360 entrepreneurs, 13,500 deleted entrepreneurs at the request of the National Bank of Serbia. Total economic losses increased by 77.5%. During the government of Mirko Cvetkovic who worked during the economic crisis and when over 200,000 jobs were lost, but not by the state. Not by the state, that's what you're going to do with between 60,000 and 100,000 new jobs you're going to do. That's the crucial difference. The number of employees by more than 10,000 regular routes has been reduced, and there were 6,000 fewer employees in public enterprises alone. And look what you're doing on the other side. It's that language when we tell you what's wrong and point the problem, that you answer us how you're going to solve it, not that you're going back to those crystal balls and time machines. You're going backwards. Because back there, you can only find work under difficult circumstances and a reputation you can only dream of. It is not correct when you use a political argument, you can say anything, but you, who wore the badge, not yourself, and you personally, okay, I wanted to say that I am not speaking to you personally, so you who wore the badge are talking about the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. You recognized the reputation of the Republic of Serbia as a figure of speech this morning. Gentlemen, it's not correct. (President: Time. ) Have understanding of the people you mention for what they have done for this country. And the fact that you're yelling at nothing, what you're going to do for this country, people are going to get it real quick and make sure they're going to punish you and they're going to barely survive you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29598	Replica, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29599	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do not defend the MPs of the DS to boast of what they have done well. But I'll remind them of what they did wrong. I'll give you an example of how you cared for your employees. “Meat industry Damjanović” – 400 employees. Gross traffic of two billion dinars. Net shown profit – 400 million dinars. If the state didn't move, 40 million dinars went into the budget at the time. It was closed by order of Mr Dragin and Mr Micevic because he did not want to trade with Miskovic and Matijević. What I'm telling you, I can prove materially. I can tell you about companies that are isolated from the EPS system. And one more thing, when you mention companies that have been shut down and failed, you can choose from your choice the company that was founded in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, in 2007, to go and look at the balance sheets of the company, to see why they failed. They failed because of loans taken in euro and the euro jumped 10. 15%, they couldn't make just for the banks. Many today survive both the tavors and cover your losses. It's the same with citizens. It's the same with the state. And why did four and a half billion euros of foreign exchange reserves go missing? Answer that. You don't have to answer, but those are the results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29600	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29601	I didn't understand the results, just that part. I understood the criticism, somewhat about the liquidity of companies and foreign reserves. Yeah, but I still don't hear what you've done? What did your government do in Serbia? What did she do besides raise prices, drop in living standards and rise in unemployment? Do you know, Mr. Arsic, we meet often in Kostolc's campaign, do you know what your municipal board does there? Do you know that they have 314 lists of young advances who will hire after coming to power? Yes, it is. And do you know what they didn't tell them? That your government has banned employment from these proposals. So how do you promise them, while at the same time forbidding them employment? Either you're not telling the truth, or you're gonna try like in the New Sad overnight to hire them. There's a truth out there, Mr. Arsic, somewhere. Nothing can erase the fact that all the indicators are terribly bad, that the country is in a very bad economic state. Fifteen percent less food is bought in Serbia, Mr. Arsic. And now you're gonna say it's DS's fault. Look, you can sell the brick once, you can sell it twice, but three times doesn't really work. You have to think of something better. You're not good with that story. Simply, citizens are increasingly experiencing the consequences of your poor authority. That's a fact. When they open their wallet, they see there's nothing. They only see the first Deputy Prime Minister in the media to announce. You say you have evidence. You file evidence for every possible crime, it's your duty as a citizen. Just please, don't do this like you've been doing so far, we're going to charge compensation to all those people who are getting out of prison that you've arrested. Who's gonna pay for that? Your marketing to pay Serbian citizens compensation from Miskovic and beyond. You have to be more serious. No one defends Miskovic, Mr. Granny. We're not defending Mishkovic. You sent him to London today to take a walk, give you money for the campaign, that's what this is about. We charged him extra taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29602	Replica Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can only say that there are no lists in Kostolc's faces that will be hired if the SNS wins the election, and they will win, so don't worry about it. He'll win for another reason. In 2014, the Council adopted Kostolac, the town municipality of Pogorec, will be Serbia's largest construction site. A new 340 megawatt thermopower plant is being created. She's gonna make something. It will employ people, but not on a party principle, but on the principle of profession and in 2018 it should end. Is it someone who regrets making something new in Serbia? Something to make money? Something that doesn't spend money? When it comes to caring for workers, there are isolated companies in Kostolc that have been left with mercy and mercy. A leadership that did not want to participate in public procurement for the performance of the work on "TE-KO" Kostolc was set up. They got the job of someone else, because the incompetent management didn't want to get it, and then those same companies, separated from the power system, were subcontractors, while someone put money in their pockets from the difference. Don't worry about the companies in the restoration. Both PRIM, production and repair and installation and "Georad", will be returned to the power system in early 2014. That's what we promised the citizens in the 2012 pre-election campaign, but as the SNS Fireman City Committee, we'll do it. Autotransport is also an analysis, and all other companies, which have been singled out, are being analysed for the justification of their return to the system. So don't worry about those people, they won't get fired, they'll do their job and they'll get paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29604	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29605	Let's really try to finish these replicas. I am pleased, Mr. Arsic, that you have answered for some of these companies, given that people in Kostolc are most often asked about it, both for Autotransport and for Kostolac services. It's just that when she was Minister and you were probably talking to them, during their blockade, no one told them if they were really going to be returned to the EPS frameworks, and we ask you, not you, we also ask the minister, since the Energy Minister isn't here to tell us if they're going to be returned, because we think it's good for Kostolac and those people. Also, building a thermal power plant is very good news. Everyone should be happy about it, but say it all the way. Tell me which government, what time did she arrange this deal with the Chinese, because our government didn't make a deal? (Marko Atlagic, from the place: No. Really? All right, here we go. Okay. It is important to build, so that people in Serbia see something. Except you have another problem, because the SPS in the campaign is also saying it's their fault, because the director is theirs, and the contracts are theirs. So if people don't vote for them, you say there will be arrests, and they say there will be no employment on the contract. Make a deal with each other. That's the problem with this government. You're working on five fronts, on five of those tracks you're moving. Then no one knows where you'll end up. So, it's just all about marketing with you, no content. I'd really like you to keep this up with some concrete things to tell us. It's just that there aren't any factories we haven't agreed on. Employment results are terribly bad. Investments are terribly bad. There's just not enough to brag about, except marketing to arrest. Let the prime suspect go to London, maybe Er Serbia, or maybe not, because he doesn't have a slot. Do you understand? That is the problem of your authority. So when we point to problems, answer us what you're going to do, not what was done before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29606	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29607	When it comes to the thermal power plant, that part of the story about how it started the previous government had fallen into an impasse that she couldn't get out of because of the standardization of equipment. Now, why was that a problem, I couldn't answer, because I'm gonna look tendious. The equipment did not meet our conditions for electricity. As for PRIM workers and Georada, who are returning, in May of the month, I initiated a conversation with union representatives... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: "Autotransport". ) There will also be “Autotransport”. ... Initiating talks with representatives of unions of all isolated companies, with the management of TEKO Kostolac. Since the talks with TEKO Kostolac and trade union representatives, the two companies have entered the process of returning to the electricity system and will be returned, don't worry about it. As for Autotransport, in this regard is the difference between SNS and DS, we will wait to see what analyses they will be when it comes to Autotransport, whether they meet the conditions to be returned to Serbia's electricity industry or not. We don't want to look at it in advance, and we don't want to talk about it casually. My own are some personal estimates that the "Autotransport" is a great chance of returning. We'll see. We'll know that in maybe a few weeks. It's perfectly correct. So we don't want to promise people anything, and then it turns out we lied to them. In that, I say, there are some things. We want to be careful, to know what we can do and what we don't. I think that's how politics should be run, not with some advance promises that have been predicated to failure, but, you know, there are enough gullible people to believe that and vote for some political option. We don't want to play with anyone or whose fate we're gambling with.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29608	The word is made by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29609	Your Honor, I'm advertising Article 106. I think this discussion and the replicas that are being held here are out of the agenda and are in the function of a pre-election campaign for the township of Kostolac. So the question of what investments are in the Termoelectrica Kostolac is a state issue and cannot be a party issue either DS or SNS or SPS or any other party. It's a state project. Also, the return of "Georada", the PRIM, "Autotransport", if it comes to this at all, cannot be a party issue and a pre-election issue of any party, I mentioned three who are predicating may have significant results in Kostolc. So I ask you, Mr. President, to conduct this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to return to the agenda and leave the election campaign for the upcoming elections in the Municipality of Kostolac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29610	I couldn't agree more. I'm the first one to call back on the agenda. Believe me, I don't have much fun either, especially when I know we don't have a direct television transmission from 17 to 45 hours. In any case, I'm trying to make sure that the debate goes to some normal time, and that's why I'm calling on all my colleagues to get back to the debate, especially if there aren't a lot of speakers left, so we can finish the debate. The minister's been here all day, he's been listening very carefully to all the exhibitions. I think it's out of respect for Minister Krstic that we need these replicas to be completed and moved on. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29611	I signed up for the replica with the announcement that we don't have a television broadcast, but this television broadcast in the replay is going to be watched, it's going to stay in the record. This is how I address you, too, respected colleagues, and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we just had Mr Stefanovic's most brutal interference with the independence of an independent branch of government called the court and the judiciary. The most brutal mixing and ordering, not only liberating charges, release from the indictment against Mr. Miskovic, and I don't know, nor want to comment on either side, but even the announcement that the state of Serbia will pay Mr. Miskovic compensation. In this way, the independence of the judiciary is violated, in this way the politics of the old, tried-out manner is mixed in the judiciary and in the epilogue of the judiciary. This way, political pressure is being put on the court to pass the acquittal and even to pay Mr. Miskovic's compensation. There's this string of tycoon-political or I don't know what else, directly spoken from this pay phone, and that's why I'm asking for all of this to get into the record, because unfortunately somebody's going to write about this in the worst and most negative epilogue. I'll give you one answer, since we... (President: Time. Just one sentence. ... We are rested not to give an answer. I'm going to give you an answer which is why the companies in Serbia are failing and they've failed. Companies failed to live in one company, to live in the 'Darekt Media', which was the income of 39 billion dinars, from the moment the owner of the 'Darekt Media' became a minister, and afterwards the mayor of Belgrade. That's why the other companies went down.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29612	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. This will end the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29613	I thank you, Mr. President. So we don't interfere in the work of the judiciary. The Constitutional Court has made a decision for several detainees. We absolutely have no idea that we're standing by anyone you named. We have nothing with these people, unlike your party and what is certain is that what we have said is part of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and is not a interference in the work of the judiciary, and at least it is correct, I repeat, if it is true. That's what you're saying, if, I repeat, it's true that at your Bureau sessions, you're discussing who's going to be arrested and you're telling us about getting involved in the work of the judiciary. That's what your MP Cvian, a member of the SNS presidency, says. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but you're ready to go to a polygraph, and this same Cvian is designated by Mr. Vukic as the best lawyer in Serbia. It was an absolute star of the deadline. Don't tell us about the companies the way you and I both know that your vice president, even though this isn't being transferred, but as you say, for future generations, your vice president of the party took a loan from four banks, the cent didn't come back. All living in bankruptcy, man drove away. He does not pay the baker's bread, as it is said in Serbia. Now you get up and talk about it. If I told you one thing, you a marble man would, yes, you would have ruined it. It's the sad fate of Serbia. You don't know anything but the last period, the previous period, the previous period, in Gilas, in yellow, and before that you take a lot of air. There's just no transmission, so don't take away our oxygen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29614	The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29615	Thank you. There is only one minute and 15 seconds left, and this is an opportunity, Mr Minister, to repeat once again the position of DS MPs, why we will not vote for the 2014 budget, not because we do not understand that it is a crisis and it is difficult to make a budget that everyone will be pleased with. We ran the government, so DS, in years of crisis. We know what difficulties these are, but what has never been done in this House at the time of the crisis, means in these five or six years, it is to suggest that the burden of the crisis be paid by citizens, the poorest, through the increase in the price of basic foods, those slightly better assets, so on. Our middle class, therefore, employees of the public sector. But even that wouldn't be a problem, they're freezing their salaries for the next three years and pensions, such an indexation, we can call it by freezing pensions in 2014, 2015 and 2016, but by being in vain. So there's no record of that victim being a citizen. Public debt is higher, deficit is higher, state spending is higher, unemployment is higher. Why should the citizens of Serbia sacrifice themselves? Where's the exit? You're not offering it to us. That's what distinguishes our government from this government that is now current.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29616	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29617	Just to be clear, you have done nothing during the crisis, and for that very reason we have no choice but to take the measures we have to take. Let's not say anything, anyway, not enough. This is something that offers a healthy future. Why? So that we wouldn't have a disaster, because we've been digging a hole where we've been standing for the last five years deeper and deeper and deeper and finally, I'm afraid, we'd get to the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29618	The word has a folk MP, Ljiljana Lucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29619	Mr. Minister, I see you have quickly mastered this political school in Serbia. I wish you'd kept it, for example. Your expertise, and you have not progressed so quickly in political advances. When you say nothing was done, you know that's not true. But let's start by assuming that some of it's true. In fact, the effects of this value added tax and the freezing of wages are around 300m euros. What we should give for "Serbia" and "Serbian Railways" is more than 300m euros. We didn't vigorously go into solving these problems. What are you doing for 18 months? We watch arguments in the ruling party, watch the coalition fight and watch bilateral relations between Serbia and Russia be disrupted. Nothing happened. For "Srbigas" alone in 2014, we need 140m euros, with a new 200m-euro debt. One word, it's time to realize that it's not easy to run a state in crisis and how easy it is to talk and how hard it is to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29620	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29621	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, we can easily imagine and conclude the state of public finances by reading the 2014 Budget Proposal, and thus the state of the country as a whole. From the point of view of the party which is the legitimate representative of Bosniaks in this parliament and the government who has been given the responsibility to deal with the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, we can find several shortcomings in this draft budget. And this draft budget is to a certain extent relying on the pattern of the last one, just like the last one leaned on the previous one and so on. To be honest, this budget proposal is far more realistic than the previous ones. Our view, however, is that we must change the way we work, in which the draft budget is drawn up and thus change policy towards the underdeveloped. To overcome these patterns of mistakes towards the underdeveloped, the Sandzak Party is proposing to form a fund for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, which would result in the merger of two former Yugoslavia funds. We talked about this at consultations with the finance minister and we agreed that this was a problem and that this is one of the more effective ways to correct this error. Looking from this angle and based on the resources allocated to the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, we believe that the state development policy is going in a good direction, but very slow and very undecided. In line with this, the question arises how much we have actually brought about the change we have promised the citizens. We all come from some parties and all of us in our pre-election campaigns have visited these undeveloped areas, promising greater investment, promising better living conditions, more jobs. However, after the constitution of the government, there you could see only one member of the government, Minister Ugljanin, who is trying to do something with those 497 dinars per capita that the current budget foresees or, translated into percentages, 0.04% of the budget for their sustainable development. There was nothing better in the previous term. The draft budget separates even less, 409 dinars per capita, which is less than four euros intended for sustainable development for the whole year. Because of these facts, it is necessary to set up a fund for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, and this really creates conditions for SDA Sandzak MPs to support this draft budget. We must be aware that about a million Serbian citizens live in these 46 cities and municipalities across Serbia. Because of the future of so many citizens, we really need to increase the resources that are designed to raise the level of sustainable development. That is why we have also established the Government's Office for the Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. Some will say that this is a time of crisis and that it is normal and that all ministries have been reduced budgets. However, we are not talking about ministries here, we are talking about citizens and the task of the state to make social cases into taxpayers who will not be burdened by the budget. Speaking of an inadequate relationship with undeveloped people, I would especially like to mention the area I come from. In Sandzak, the unemployment rate is twice as high as the republican average. There's no railway, no gas, no highway, no airport. No factory works. Employment subsidies bypassed the area at a wide port. What it does is exclusively a private sector that is deeply and strongly affected by this crisis. With so many differences in development, we have nowhere to go in front of the European Union. If we plan to enter the Union by 2020, we have very little time for this huge job. If we want to reduce the difference we have in six years, for example, between Belgrade and Tutin, New Varoshi and Black Grass, Plandišta and Preboj, we are already very late today. Citizens in Sandzak, but also all of those undeveloped areas across Serbia, about a million of them, must get a chance to develop and there must really be no compromise and excuses about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29622	The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29623	Dear President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are already finishing the second day of discussion of the draft budget law, and I can say that MPs, more or less, have had similar views on certain issues related to budget criticism, as well as on certain advantages of this draft budget law, and in this sense I risk repeating myself in certain segments, since the debate on this matter is already over. In any case, Article 3. The draft budget law represents one table containing guarantees Serbia will issue in 2014 to business banks of up to 787m euros, as follows. The public company "Serbian Gas" goes to 200m euros, the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija" 100m euros and "Zelezara Smederevo" 30m euros. In all three cases of 787 million even 330 are allocated to maintain the current liquidity of these three companies. I think that perhaps, in part, the economic and economic inefficientness of Serbia and the Serbian economy may even lie in these particulars. The next area of the draft budget law I wanted to talk about is the area discussed last week during the debate on the set of laws necessary for the implementation of the economic measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and concerning the state of public debt on 30 September 2013 and the projection of the war on loans taken. Mr. Minister, I don't think you may be the right address for finding out about this issue, since it's about the loans that were taken in the period before you came to the minister's post, but it's your inherited condition, so the situation is what it is. What's symptomatic is the great colourfulness of interest rates for certain credit lines, so they range from as much as 0.75% to 8.5% and above, which clearly shows that the state may have taken even overpriced loans compared to what it can actually pay. As a consequence of such a situation, we have the fact that the income of the NBS is exactly the same as the profit from public enterprises, i.e. companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. It's worth three billion dinars. Finally, part of the draft budget law related to the Ministry of Economy described a capital project to build infrastructure and superstructure in tourist centres, which implies investments of around 947 million dinars for the purchase of machines and equipment in the ski centres of Kopalnik, Stara Planina and Zlatibor. I don't think tourist centres are just investment in mountain tourism. In this sense, I will mention that Serbia has about 50 baths and in this sense Banish tourism is much simpler to invest in in the sense that it does not require some large infrastructure expenditure, and the effects of investment in this branch of tourism are significantly higher. As Nischlika, you assume that I will mention Niška Banja and not only its warm water, but also that it represents one of the oldest spas in Europe. It has an extremely favourable strategic position in terms of air traffic, i.e. the connection between rail, air and road traffic. The niche have long been waiting for the construction of the mentioned Aqua Park in Niška Banja, and I think it can be potentially very important for this part of Serbia. Since I have plenty of time, I would only mention, I have submitted an amendment to that subject, so we'll talk about it in a period of time, but I have to mention that it's quite disappointing to me as someone who comes from Nis that not purpose transfers for the City of Nis are reduced to that amount, as is the case with this year's budget. Nis has over 40,000 unemployed people. In the morning part of the session, I was talking about how many factories are closing down, how the investments stop, and I think that the reduction of the non-intentional transfer in the City of Nis and that it is a major problem for its further functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29624	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29625	I have to turn to this last part, which is that we've all had the same criteria for Nis. Unfortunately, that's what's going to happen next year, and by half the year we're going to change the Law on funding local self-government, so it's going to be more on local self-government by the time they can collect taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29626	National MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29627	Mr. Krstic, I really believe that you love your city and that you tried to get Nis more money than he did, but obviously you're not enough. I keep talking about this Law on the financing of local self-government, which provides for two criteria, which determines the amount of non-intentional transfer funds. And you know for yourself that one of these numbers is population, and that another criterion is the degree of development. The way the table and individual cities in the table are presented is thus selectively shown. For example, I'm going to have to mention Novi Sad. If you're already talking about measuring one of these two criteria, if we're going to start from the degree of development, then Novi Sad as the most developed can't possibly have 920 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29628	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29629	Dear President Stefanovic, Minister Krstic, after this debate in today's day, I return to Vojvodina, my village, and I regret to tell the Vojvodjan voters that you have not accepted any amendments to the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Now we've got the report and I see that nothing has been accepted. For the MPs who come from Vojvodina, and in the National Assembly there are about 45, if I have calculated correctly, part of the budget relating to the financing of the region from which they come must be priority, because it is natural for everyone who comes from some neighborhood to fight for it, to fight for people, to fight for the end in which they will return and to which they leave every day. That's why in my speech, I'm going to look back on Vojvodina and part of the budget that concerns it. As we all know, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in 2006. The people of Vojvodina did not support him. The day, December 31st, 2008 was the last time the AP Vojvodina Funding Act was due to fly, which would achieve the budget meeting constitutional items. The financing of Vojvodina remains unstable and unpredictable. The financing of the Vojvodina is still contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The objective is to provide the AP Vojvodina budget with the provision of Article 184(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia established a minimum budget of 7% of the republic's budget, i.e. allowing the implementation of the constitutional obligation to benefit from the AP Vojvodina's three-week budget for capital expenditure financing. In a situation where there is no clearly defined legal framework for financing the powers of the AP Vojvodina and in a situation where this constitutional minimum of 7% is all but not an official Belgrade's obligation towards the AP Vojvodina, in a situation where no money in the AP Vojvodina budget has been completed in ten months. In a situation where only four dinars are singled out for total regional development in the Republic of Serbia from 100 single dinars for Vojvodina, the only logical reaction when the Republic budget, i.e. the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is to try to provide the minimum of 7% for amendments to the law that provides for the Constitution. Transfer funds should be directly directed to end-users, not to go over the Vojvodina budget and create one picture that is bigger than it really is. The Vojvodina will be cut off by more than half of its budget, which has been built on 56 billion dinars, or 32 billion dinars. It is about transfer funds for education and local self-government. Let me remind you, in the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, the first position of Article 157 is stated – in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, funds are provided for the acquisition of education and education of children and pupils in primary and secondary schools established by the Republic of Serbia, AP and local self-government units. So, regardless of who the founder is, education funds are provided directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think it is clear to everyone that in this draft of the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget, by rerouting 23 billion dinars through the AP Vojvodina budget, practically the Republic of Serbia has saved itself 23 billion, because it has twice counted something that had to be really accounted for. Transfer funds in the expenditure structure are more than 60%, and this fact indicates that the government of the AP Vojvodina had a very small financial space to implement its objectives, such as reducing unemployment, promoting economics, supporting culture, the work of national communities, etc. The Vojvodina is an underdeveloped region. Who is responsible for the fact that Vojvodina has become an underdeveloped region? The Belgrade region is classified as being developed because it generates the value of gross domestic product above the republican average. Data from the Republic Statistics Institute show that unemployment in Vojvodina is the largest in the country since the southern Serbia region. It is also interesting how foreign investments were coming to Serbia. For example, in Vojvodina, all successful companies such as brewers were sold, while NIS, which accounted for 90% of Vojvodina's Naftagas, were sold for only 400m euros, although it was estimated at 2.2 billion. So this political sale of the national oil company fell directly to the burden of the people of Vojvodina. On the other hand, no major dukean company that was in trouble has received incentives, such as received the flag when it was sold to the Fiat. Serbian citizens are also expected to be announced that they will be expected to be fired next year and that new jobs will be poorly opened. Personal consumption will be reduced. I want to say more about agriculture. Agriculture will be even harder to live. Farmers will have to hire personal accountants. They won't be able to register agricultural holdings unless they have their accountants. We know what the prices of agricultural products are, and we know that farmers from my village still waiting for incentives, in fact from the Agrarian Payments Administration from Capca... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... as early as 2012, which was not paid to them. Let me just say, I belong to a national community. I'm a member of the National Council. What I'm saying is that without some talks, we get the solutions that the resources for the work of the National Councils have been reduced by 20%. I think this year will be even worse and that there will be positive discrimination against national councils, because there is no Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29630	Next reported is Mr. Jeremic. You don't want a word, or do you want a word? (No) Mr. Colakovic? (2016 Colakovic, from the scene: How much time do we have left? You have one minute, like group time, and Mr. Colakovic has four minutes. Then Mr. Colakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29631	Dear President, honourable ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, above all, I would like to express a great satisfaction and commendation at the expense of Minister Krstic, for respecting the MPs, regardless of access to certain issues and in general the National Assembly. In the end, I would like to say that we will support the Budget Law, first of all because we understand and realize that the Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic, indicated in an exposé in August this kind of approach to the 2014 budget. Secondly, because social isolation remained at the level of 2013 and because the government showed responsible social policy and protected, to the extent possible at this time, the poorest citizens of our country. And thirdly, because the government understood and realized that the majority of the pension population was poor and in this respect they did not enter the acquired pension rights of pensioners and because they were provided funds for all 12 pensions and other pension rights, provided in general for 2014. For these reasons and the reasons that we presented in the debate, our parliamentary group will support the 2014 Budget Act, the PIO Fund decision and the National Employment Service decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29632	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 69. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. The remaining time is nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the end of the first part of the budget debate. The sequel will be Thursday. I fully understand the MPs, especially from the former regime, who want to make things worse than it is. It's kind of a political struggle, but I can also give recognition to government representatives who are introducing a new practice, which is that they don't make the situation more beautiful than it is. It is certainly one newspaper in the Serbian parliament, because the Budget Law is one of the most important, if not the most important law that one assembly makes. During this debate, I heard a lot of criticism about the budget. I don't want to talk about late wits, that would be completely pointless, but also me as the MPs a little bit irritated, which is that my fellow MPs, often, in the heat of their struggle, say what the law doesn't say, what they might like to write in the laws proposed by this government. I'd ask all my colleagues to speak, tell the truth, even if they keep one piece of the truth, and they only say what they don't like, but they really do exist in the Budget Act. One of his colleagues said first 200m for release, then 600m euros, etc. There are no means to lay off, there is no programme targeted exchange rate of the dinar, that it will be 117, so 127, as everyone knows our exchange rate is formed based on supply and demand. It's very important to pay off the budget, and I can see the minister is sticking to what I asked him for, which is that things are worse than they are. These are the meanings of one projection for the worst possible option, and I think that the course will continue to be stable, I see no economic reason why it would not be in the next period, especially now that two-thirds of the imports are covered by exports, so that some more of the signs coming from abroad and not related to loans and debts, the balance of payments between the Republic of Serbia and the rest of the world are fully balanced. There were many stories about the Public Procurement Act, so someone asked why the budget envisioned 10% more than in the previous year, does this mean that the Public Procurement Act is wrong. This law on public procurement is the best Serbia has ever had. In the next period, we will achieve some not bad foreign laws, but some foreign laws that some have used to correct, but the law has achieved that purpose, which is that we are slowly moving towards that European public procurement average in the shortened procedure, which is 5%. And what's good about the Public Procurement Act, which is also important for the Budget Law, is that there are no more contract annexes, and that those who abuse the law abuse it because of these contract annexes, because they've been putting their own pockets together, as allegedly the best bidders, and then the annexes have been the multiple worst and those who fall under the Public Procurement Act should be aware that their private interests are protected by those who have become completely illegal on state money. There were stories about Etihad and Er Serbia. I can't understand why something can be and what it's really a problem. So let's rent that plane. I ask the question – what about the plane that was supposed to be bought on the lease, and it was never bought, and the funds were spent? That's what representatives of the former regime don't want to talk about. Is it true that the lease is paid three thousand and four hundred dollars or euros? It probably is. But you see how dishonest he is, that MP who said it. That's what the citizens of Serbia pay for. That's not what Serbian citizens pay for, it's what the passengers on the plane pay for, because no one rented a plane to drive empty in the sky of Serbia or the world. So these are all literally malicious accusations, whether out of jealousy, whether out of envy, whether out of ignorance, whether because of the failed policy they represented in an earlier period. A further question arises about the fate of JAT, and no one will say from colleagues who voted with both hands when JAT was in charge and that this really came back from the Serbian budget, meaning, from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The question of public debt can be raised if it is known that most of the funding from the budget goes to the Pension Fund, the Health Protection Fund, that most of the debt will go to the infrastructure, not to the ongoing public spending, which is a bottomless hole and investment. Is the problem for the former regime's MPs that will finally end Corridor 10, which they have been struggling with for 12 years and more than half will be completed in three years. A fellow MP rebelled over Kostolac, and I'd say there's no campaign there. Is it a problem that the new thermal power plant will be built in the Kostolc? Let him be anywhere in Serbia. That's six million kilowatts a day times 300 working days, so figure out how much this affects Serbia's gross income. I can't quite understand that someone's talking about 140,000 extra workers without accepting their share of responsibility for that surplus staff in the state administration. I can't accept it as a fact why wouldn't someone pay a profit tax of over 60,000 dinars, to which fellow MPs are courting? I can't accept that this government is guilty of knowing for the first time how many employees we have in the state administration and how many are supported from the RS budget, so now the problem is that suddenly there's a surplus. That can't be a problem. Don't be afraid of Serbian citizens with cataclysm anymore. None of the cataclysms happened, which you predicted, and as you say, we're half-term, and you predicted it for the first three months of your term. The cataclysms are gone. We won't allow any cataclysm. Don't let anyone tell us that someone's worried about selling computers because it's supposed to be no longer a luxury asset, and the washing machines are at 20%, the electric gas savings are at 20%, and many other technical goods are at 20%, so I don't see what the big problem is right now that's going to affect citizens' living standards. If someone has a salary of 60,000, don't spend it all... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... on the supply of food, but in that worst version there will be no 10% as some predict but only 2% on the total salary. That 2% have been extorted and I can only say that because of the way this budget was made, the government's relations with the budget, the government's attitude towards Serbian citizens in the voting day will vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29634	Replica, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29635	It's not a problem at the thermal power plant either, it's not a problem when someone in Serbia gets a job, that we should all celebrate. That's a fact. The problem is how you do it. The problem is that you have designed this budget and what it will bring to the citizens of Serbia. The problem is, when budget cuts are planned, and we're instructions for numbers, ranging from 60 to 100 grand, because your ministers say that, not because we're saying that. So it says in your budget, Mr. Arsic, and that is a fact. The funds are defined for this, for the first time, and it is no problem to record how many people in the public sector are doing and no one has said anything against it, nor against the thermal power plant, nor against the employment of people, nor the persecution and arrest of criminals, not political opponents. It's all right. Our problem is how you do it and what your results are and what will be the result of these measures that you will apply. It can't be a good result if there's nothing that promotes the development and growth of the economy. There can be no result if the crisis is imposed on citizens over the back. It can't be a result when you didn't provide for further employment, but only for non-employment, i.e. for firing people. That's the problem, that's what this is about. If someone has a salary of over 60,000, we have proven to you very effectively, through arguments, that these savings are 50% less than what you give to "Serbiagas", "Electro-privreds" and other businesses. So it's marketing. Pure marketing. Our goal is for one with 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 dinars to come to as much pay as possible and that man has as much pay as possible. In the meantime, their children are hired to have a perspective on where to work. (President: Time. This budget does not allow. Unfortunately, this budget is, in this sense, terribly bad for citizens, extremely unfavourable and with no perspective for their development.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29636	Replica Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this money that has been mentioned is intended to restructure these enterprises that have not been restructured for 12 years, not for firing workers and compensation for these layoffs. Does anyone mind that part, now already former social property, and now state, is sold at the price at which it really costs on the market? Let me remind you how privatisation was done. The base was accounting value, with all the write-offs it had, not market value. In 99% of the cases, the market price is 10 times higher than the bookkeeping price, so that would be a lot. The initial price is 30% of the bookkeeping. Consider the simplest economic logic possible. If you buy something at a much cheaper price than it costs on the market, are you going to invest in it, or are you going to rip it apart and sell the piece by piece and make a profit? Anyone who deals with the economy will do this another. It's not the one who did it. The problem is those who have written such a law and allowed it and treated it to some who have done so. We don't want to talk about the Fireman Meat Industry, who had military claims and owed funds. The funds interested 0.2% of the daily MIP. That interest could not be compensated on interest from the military's claim. One minister refused to sign consent to the debt beating, so I should say his name and last name, until interest funds had eaten MIP's assets and military claims. (President: Time. We don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-10-0.u29638	According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform review of the draft law and the proposals for decisions referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. We're working on Thursday at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287(2), Rules of Procedure, MPs have the right to request information and explanations. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
