ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28811	Mr Minister, as regards the Law on the Budgetary System, in the proposed amendments and additions, it is said that in the event that a regulation is not adopted by 1 July 2014 which will regulate the harmonisation of pay levels, i.e. the income of public sector employees, there will be no harmonisation of wages and pensions in accordance with the position of the 26th of this Act. In my amendment, I asked for a regulation to be adopted by July 1st 2014, which will ensure a level of pay, i.e. earning employees in the public sector. According to the Government, the objective of a member of the provision is not to set a time limit for the adoption of rules that will ensure a level of pay, which is partly true, i.e. the income of public sector employees, but is proposed not to apply the proposed indexation, i.e. the coordination of salaries and pensions in the context of 2014. What's the point of my amendment? He is primarily calculated to draw attention to you, as finance minister, to a large imbalance in the public sector that exists at the level of pay and profit. I know you've got yourself into a lot of trouble, that you've found big problems in the public sector, but it seems to me that mental heritage may be the biggest problem you've ever faced. For what? I think that working self-government has long been behind us, and we, as right-wing men, advocate that everyone is rewarded according to their abilities and the complexity of the work and the responsibility they have. Since you didn't finish high schools with us, but in a country where these values are properly valued, I think it's just a classic demagogy that the finance minister, who does such a responsible job, which is the most responsible for the country's fiscal and monetary policy, has a salary of 90,000 dinars or that the prime minister has a salary of 154,000 or a president of the state of 137,000, and we donate the salaries of some agency directors to be 450,000 dinars, such as the director and chairman of the flight control agency, deputy 428,000 dinars. I ask you, is what they do more responsible than the work of a prime minister who leads both foreign and domestic policy, who is responsible for the entire economic and political life of this country? For this reason, I think, since we belong to the right-wing, that the prime minister, the president, should be rewarded for their work in line with the degree of responsibility, the seriousness of the work they carry with them. Also, there is a huge imbalance in the public sector, for example, the director of a local water pipeline has a higher salary than the prime minister or the finance minister or the president of the state. Not to mention many highly educated people who continue to work for 40,000 dinars and do extremely responsible and complex jobs. I still haven't seen the true desire for this huge imbalance, this disproportion, which is not normal, to change. That is why I insisted that a regulation be laid down to make it even, and that is precisely according to these criteria, according to complexity, according to responsibility, according to professional preparation. You know how it was at Joseph Broz Tito's time, the cleaning lady comes in and harasses the director of finance, and they're all the same. With all due respect to each profession, not all of them are the same, not all of them have the same education, not the same abilities, not the same responsibility. Workers' self-government has long been behind us, but it is mentally still present in our society. What's my suggestion to break up with that week? What's it like in Slovenia? In Slovenia, the country's president has 5,600 euros in salary, the prime minister of 5,500 euros. The governor in Hungary has 17,000 euros in salary. I don't stand for that kind of pay. They are not suited to the economic strength of our society, but I am telling you about more serious countries that are experiencing such serious and responsible functions in a more serious way. That's why I think your task is to balance this unfair imbalance in the public sector. Not someone who has graduated from college and has some specialization, etc., to work for 350 euros, and someone who performs the same complexity to have 4,000 euros. I'm sorry, it's not fair, it's not fair, it's not normal. That's why you need to pass a regulation that will set it all right, and if you do, you'll have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28812	Thank you. Before we continue to work, I ask you to honor one of the most prominent human rights fighters, Nelson Mendela, for a moment of silence. Praise him. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28813	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my colleague said before me, the right hand advocates justice, and it is my turn as a socialist to say something in that sense, because we also advocate justice. I think, Mr. Minister, this amendment deserves to be cleared up at least until the end of this key article 1. Let me remind you, in the principle debate, I have said, by the state, as well as the entire parliamentary group, the bill you have submitted here in the Assembly, because of the goal that you have stated that it should be achieved, not to say again, I am stressing again and again, one of the biggest tasks standing before the government is just the adoption of rules on equalising pay levels in the public sector. I cited many examples, I was talking about the salary of the President of the Republic, I was talking about that it's not logical, in addition to these examples we've heard, that the head of the cabinet of the President of the Assembly has a higher salary than the President of the Assembly, etc., that on the one hand we have the principle of applying that Law on Salaries in the public services and in the state authorities. On the other hand, by changing the coefficients, by changing the basics, we're all confused and now we have, if I'm not mistaken, some say 600 coefficients, and some say even 900 different coefficients and five basics, just one, to call it that, a symbol of the public sector's wages. I remind you that the entire public sector is using public money, the money of all of us, and the same rules should be introduced for all of them. That's why, I repeat, the pledge, to lay down a regulation on equalising pay levels. Please don't make a mistake. We don't think it's necessary to even everyone up, but all those who do the same jobs or related jobs, in different places, should have about the same. We have a situation that the same jobs and related jobs in one place are paid completely differently compared to other places. I repeat, the money is the same, the public, our people's money. Of course, we move on, so whoever does more, let there be more, who does less, let there be less, but basically to do that equation. Why did I say all this? Because you're in response... I'm not questioning this whole package. I supported it, I don't have any dilemmas. But it seems to me that you need to listen to everything else, what else can be done to make it fairer, fairer, so that the measures that have been taken are sustainable and can be implemented in an enforceable manner. This isn't fair. Why isn't it fair? On the board, you said that it was not the aim of the provision to set a time limit for the adoption of regulations that would regulate the level of pay, i.e. the income of public sector employees. Why isn't he the target? Why don't you have a deadline until you have to bring it in? I believe it's very optimistic by the end of June that it can be reached, but decide to be by the end of the year. You have to bring it in sometime because you've been talking about it for years. The deadline has to be fixed once. My second remark, to put it this way, is that if it can't be passed by by now, why should the consequences be borne by pensioners? If the government doesn't pass a regulation by June of the month, let the government not pay its salary. Don't let the pensioners have the right to raise in October because they haven't passed the regulation. Fair enough. I repeat, it is optimistic that by the end of June, the rules on equalization of wages are passed. It's really a big deal. Let it be another deadline. But if there is no longer, then don't, let it be applied as the law said indexation of wages and pensions, and not - because no regulation has been passed, no proposed indexation will be applied in October 2014. I'm going back to the beginning. Mr. Minister, with the support of all the brave measures that you have proposed here, what needs to be done is to clarify this matter, why this is like this and to see how, if we already commit, we invite those who will use the indexation, to tighten the belt, because the difficult times, the difficult economic, social situation, there is no money, too, to commit to the government or to do the regulation or to do the indexation in October of the month, do as the Budget System Act predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28814	Mr Bozidar Djelic submitted to the First Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28815	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is essential for the reason it is submitted to a member who sums up in this law the defeat of this economic policy. People would say, "When you see you're wrong, stop." The Americans would say, "When you're in a hole, stop digging." Last year, the government proposed a budget that had similar characteristics. He was raising VAT, second rate, tightening consumption. There was nothing in it for the economy and for the capital investments. The minister explicitly confirmed this in a discussion in principle, when, and I am grateful for it, he said that those four billion euros of additional debt carried out by this government went to everything except the economy, agriculture and capital investments. Here we are again today with the same logic, but much worse consequences. The government proposes to delete all its mistakes by increasing the prices of bread, milk, oil, drugs, communals. The previous one showed it well. There's a growing anxiety in the ruling majority's ranks. On boards these days, certain smaller parties show an increasing amount of anxiety and intolerance, even voting for some amendments proposed by the opposition, as they see they will have to their own voters very quickly, which is one thing, and even more importantly, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to say, especially those who are allegedly part of the left or dam the oldest, why they voted for pensioners to pay higher prices. Was it the only way for everyone to get deep? We cannot separate this amendment or this law from what follows next week, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party says that it is not the time to continue with the wrong logic, which after the 5% purchasing power drops for all citizens of our country, and 5% on a very low pension or salary pains and that more than those who have a better income. These measures are linear. These measures are not socially conscious. These measures do not show any understanding that a minimum pension cannot be affected in the same way by these restrictions as a higher or higher salary. And not only that, on the divisive side of the budget, contrary to what you said earlier, you have not provided any complementary mechanism or, a little closer to the Serbian language, you will in no way help those who have minimal incomes. There's no solidarity fund where there's solidarity taxes. There's no fund that can help the poorest pensioners. On the contrary, the measure implemented in Belgrade at least, partly after that inspiration and at the level of the Republic, has given up on the so-called 13th pension for the poorest. This is a losing strategy. This is a strategy that leads to a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council, which you elected as a majority, Mr Stamenkovic said three days ago that very quickly we must be asked to reprogramme our external debt. Let me put it in Serbian -- we've already cracked, except we're waiting for a few weeks or months to hold elections because a growing number of people are waking up from this fairy tale and seeing that this is leading to nothing. At this point, the smartest thing you've found to suggest is that everyone goes into a blockade, and then the APR erases them. You're pushing people into illegals. This tax increase, this reduction of purchasing power only leads us to a brief procedure in general indifference and in the collapse of Serbian public finances. We from the Democratic Party said this last year. Today, five billion euros in additional debt, later with a 13% drop in purchasing power, i.e. traffic in trade, after the drop in food production of 16%, after the decline of production that is happening in our country, this is the last moment to call on your senses, to withdraw these laws, to accept at least this amendment and some others and to change this logic which, even that future master of our finances from the spring of next year, writes what I say here if it continues, it will be in Washington, so it will say – so why did you do so, so we also had a report where we admitted our own mistakes in Greece, that it should not have been as you are now offering. There is no international conspiracy against Serbia. There's only a government who doesn't know what he's doing. There is only the Ministry of Finance, which in five to twelve December for the measures to be applied from January 1st, admits that even the software in the tax administration is not working, that it is not ready for the central register of those who receive salaries from the budget. He doesn't understand why there's some money to be paid for that's meant to be restitution. In all, we attend the collapse of one approach. He is ideological, he is economic, but he is operational. This shoots at all the seams and I ask you on behalf of the citizens of our country to accept this amendment, because I know that most of your MPs in their hearts and souls know that this is not how we should go on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28816	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28817	Thank you. I'd like to respond to these few comments. The reason why we put the deadline and this fiscal rule in the Budget Law is because we don't want to break it. Of course, we know that the indexation of this second goes only in October, so that we will have even greater responsibility in order to actually implement this in action and so that we do not go before both the National Assembly and the Serbian citizens and speak now everyone has to pay for our impunity, I'm sure it won't even happen. It's not an exception. It has not often been in our legislation, as far as I am aware in this form of budget, but as it exists in other countries, including America. We've had a few situations there in the last six months about something like that. As far as these other comments are concerned, I would like to say in principle that we have seen what the results of the growth have been given by an alternative policy of giving, a demand without structural reforms from 2008 to 2012. We've seen the level of economic growth there, if it can be called growth, which is negative. We just have to do an alternate path. This alternative path is far weaker and more responsible, because we continue to take it in time than it was in Greece, rather than the direction in which the characterisation of what you describe goes, that the troika and these other international financial institutions have made a turn in their policy, which we are following with this budget and this fiscal strategy. I'd like to say a few more things. You mentioned it at one point, i.e. You said in a moment of indifference. Just so we don't have a problem, what can it do to cause problems on the financial market? I hope you're just getting lost. Of course, we don't have any indifference. We had two and a half times the demand in the capital market when we issued bonds a few weeks ago. It's essential that we understand that these four billion borrowings, we had for the first time in a certain period of payment of the debt of 300 million. We had two billion spent on the budget deficit. To be clear, it's budget financing. If the 2012 and 2013 budget, and there have been capital projects and other investments, this money has been spent on it, as well as on everything else in the budget, including wages and pensions. More than a billion are on the bill. They didn't spend that four billion. This rest has been spent in most of the resolution work due to previous bank irresponsibility, I think of Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank and Business Bank. As for social giving, we have already talked a few times about whether or not it is located, we are increasing in the fiscal strategy and we say that we will increase social giving in 2015. Also, in 2014, an energy-protected customer programme is being introduced that has never existed before, plus all those social benefits that were previously there are still there. I just want to point out the facts about how everyone in the O.R. and the citizens would be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28818	Replica, MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28819	Mr. Minister, from what I hear, you're a technocrat, and these two, three days you're always answering like a politician. If you don't believe me, take the video, look at the stenogram. Did I say Serbia can't pay off the debt? Did I say that? I was just quoting the man you chose as our macroeconomic asset to be a member of the National Bank of Serbia Council, who said we must urgently seek a reprogramme of our external debt. I was quoting the official face that you set up. Mr. Minister, I don't want to quote any of us here. Now I'm going to quote to you the lady who was first elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and then elected Deputy Mr. Vukic, who is at the last press conference, you may have followed it, said that already a third of the agricultural products are in the gray zone. Did I say that? I didn't say that. Do you want me to quote the director of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who said he was proud to bear the fact that he was the chairman of the SNS Economic Council, who proposed him to this very responsible place, which he said last week must urgently adopt new measures that are different. Is that what we said? We didn't. That's what your man, who now runs the Chamber of Commerce, said he couldn't do this. Now you said it was a three. These future wardens of ours, if it keeps up like this, said they don't think it should be like you suggested. And to tell you when you say responsibility, responsibility in Serbian means you're responsible for what's done. This isn't this amendment, but you've provoked me a little bit. At your first public appearance, you said it wasn't normal... (President: Time) I'll use group time. So we'll get to it. We have an amendment that abolishs the ability to pay six, seven times from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28820	Please, when that amendment comes. It's been two minutes and 20 seconds. The word is from MP Veroljub Arsic, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has rejected this amendment tabled by counterpart Chikiriz, because the bill was what would have been said – if the government did not pass the regulation. I know there's a huge desire for regulations to be passed, but there are some objective problems why it's very difficult. One of these problems is that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not know until the other day how many employees receive salaries from the Republic of Serbia's budget or from a consolidated budget. I can't blame this government. It took months to determine how many people live on the burden of the state. Now, if these data are devastating, let's ask ourselves who's responsible, and the word responsibility is always mentioned, who's responsible for why we have such a state of government? Why do we have much more state-sponsored workers than state-support workers? What happened to those workers who support the state? Where'd they go? In transitions, in privatisations. Where'd they go? It's a gray zone. Why does it exist? Is it a gray zone if a citizen buys food directly from agricultural producers? That's how much I know the legal zone. Now that there's no purchase of agricultural products, that's the second part of the story. No cooperatives, that's what you turned off. It's gone. Slowly shut down the village, with that policy you've been running. The failure of Serbian public finances is not today. It happened in December 2011. When you boasted as a government that you had two billion euros in investment. Where are those investments? Where are your employees in these investments? Where's the defeat of gross products, if there were these investments? How much did the state cost those two billion investments to get them? How much did we pay out of the budget? It doesn't matter, it doesn't count. It's some kind of fiction. The 2011 budget rebalance in December 2011, when money was spent, is the failure of Serbian public finances. The 2012 budget, the planned growth, we had a fall. The budget for 2011 also planned growth, we had a decline and increased the number of unemployed and increased public debt compared to gross income. Why did the IMF mission leave in February of 2012? Maybe it wasn't Alexander Wolfie or Mr. Krstic? Or because the revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget were far less than planned, so the IMF sought a rebalancing with which you were not allowed to go before the citizens because they were elections, so on June 30, 2012, we had a disastrous execution of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Real budget revenues were 60%, the debt of the Republic of Serbia's budget on June 30th was 98%, but for the whole year. Then you're talking about some of the debts you've made. You're talking about taking care of the pensioners. Where do pensions come from, from the Fund? Who's filling the fund? Employees. Where are your employees? Shut it down. I'm not going to use words, you've abolished real sector employees, 10% of the working population has been out of work since 2008-2012. That is why we now have to charge the budget and the PIO funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I wish we had so many employees and such incomes that he didn't have to pay out of the fund budget, but he did. You're talking about a fall in purchasing power, you know what? We've debated that more than once in this assembly. Why is there a fall in purchasing power? Because you let the banks do whatever they want on the market in the past, with the citizens. Not only did you let them do whatever they wanted, but you gave them the opportunity and helped them rob themselves. The biggest problem for budgeting in 2013 was the small showdown of legal persons' profits. Why? Because they had to cover the 2012 curricula in January-June 2012. It shows a lower profit to cover the exchange rate differences. That was for companies. What happened to the citizens? They do not say so, but instead of a 1,000-euro loan for which they were to return 97,000 or 98,000 dinars, they returned 120,000 dinars. Are these the results of this successful government that now cares for the citizens, but on the other hand? That's how I see it. All of this, unfortunately, is not something we are happy with, but it is the correction of mistakes from 2002, 2003, 2004 until 2012. For four years, Serbia has not had GDP growth, and now those responsible for the fall in economic activity think it is enough to accuse others and wash their sins against Serbian citizens. I think it'll take you a lot of time and a lot of water. I don't think there's enough on the globe for everything you've done to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28822	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28823	Let me just say there's not one fact that supports what you just said. If the crisis had begun, it had begun, but the problem that citizens see is that you simply can't provide a normal day in this country after a missed strategy and topic. Every day there's a fight, every day there's some fear. Every day someone has to answer for something. We don't know where we're going every day. One day you say, "We welcome investment, and then your minister who's in charge of it says, "That's capital nonsense." One day you say -- it's an important dialogue with the unions, and then you kick them out of the task force. Then the first vice president has to return them, then they're coming out again, so maybe they're back, is that your concept of social dialogue? One day you say, well, no one will lose their jobs, then the finance minister on the board says: it will be up to 20,000. Then he says, "I do not know what will happen, we will see, we will look at it step by step." Do at least one thing. The second-hand aircraft that you keep walking around the Balkans is not an answer, especially because to the last scarfs worn by the stewardesses "Er Serbia" and the contracts we can't see, and if it's so great why don't you show it to everyone, it's all the citizens of Serbia paid out of your pocket, up to the last bolt of the repair of this old plane. You didn't do one of those privatisations right. Vresak vineyards with key partner China, most agree that's good. What's become of it? It became a dissension between the President of the Republic who says who made it possible for someone to sit in the government that led it, and then this one fits – whose advisors, where they laundered money. You know what, chaos gradually comes from where it's coming from. What happens at 5:00 today? What congregations are these? What are you doing with yourself? (President: Time. Who among you will survive here in a month?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28824	Replica, Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28825	My esteemed colleague is trying to reverse the topic and discussion, but there is no problem, I also accept under these conditions that he is trying to impose, and I would like to ask a question – what about the plane that we gave consent to obtain or lease under the lease, paid from this case by Serbian citizens, but he disappeared, flew away, and euros? She ate a cat. It's not there. Say nicely, what you have done for Serbia in 12 years, less or more of your participation in the government. For every investment I tell you every honor, every foreign investment, I ask only one question – how much did we pay from the Serbian citizens' budget? I'll take it right now, but we want to know how much the budget cost, and we want to know what economic justification it was for those duties. Now we can talk about how wrong something is. Let's look at the budget and see how many old debts there are, how much debt we owe to pay back somebody's debts. Let's see that. We can't even go with that 2%, which you're so rebelling about, to cover the loans you've raised before, not to mention that there wasn't a single central register of government securities of value, how it was speculated, how that money was earned, how the dinar was destroyed. The National Bank broadcasts, the Treasury broadcasts, the Ministry of Finance broadcasts, and then suddenly the market comes out... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... A billion and a half euros in foreign exchange reserves to cover someone's marifetteluke.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28826	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28827	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Stefanovic, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that this incompetent government, worst since the arrival of southern Slovenians to the Balkans, has shifted the burden of the crisis to citizens and is simply incomprehensible with what ease the burden of the crisis and the burden of your incompetence you transfer to the Serbian citizens' wallet. Serbian citizens, when they buy bread, milk, oil, sugar, basic life supplies, when they pay for municipal services, when they buy drugs, will only give a higher percentage because we have an incompetent government. I've tried to explain this to you in the following way, Mr. Minister, your budget that you've proposed is not developmental. Serbia has been in a difficult situation several times than today, before the First World War, we had sanctions of Austria-Hungarian, we had a pre-exhaled economy and then, I told you, what Minister Laza Pacuh did. He was developing a Serbian economy... (President: Please return to the amendment. )......................................................................................................... These are amendments concerning VAT increases. Let me explain it most to you, since you obviously don't understand, when you look at me and Mr. Lazar Krstic, imagine that we have a boxing match with Tyson in six months. Which one of us should go on a diet? Of course I do, because how's someone who's 60 kilos, and we tell him to go boxing with Tyson, but he has to go on a diet to beat him? There's nothing of it, there's nothing of it, because you can't do it without the development budget, without the development economy, without the start of the economy to make savings. Savings are unimaginable if you exhaust someone to the limit of endurance. For those who earn and don't understand, we got a car going, you promised us hills and valleys in the election campaign, down those promised hills and valleys, and there's no stopping, no brakes. No one pulls the brake. We're going terribly downhill, and no one sees from you, but you're still waving at the passersby while the car runs and chases into the abyss. That's not good. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that all MPs in this assembly are not quite, especially the authorities, ready to support this package of measures before the extraordinary parliamentary elections, because it shows that the foundations of these governments are lax, but that is why the rest of them are shooting at strength. We see that every step of the way. Finally, I doubt your European measures, when yesterday's Councilor of the President of the Republic comes out and announces an affair that will shake Serbia, and then in this affair, regardless of the suspicious credibility of the man who reveals it, we see that the advisers of this country are the creators of this affair. That's what Oliver Antic and his insider said. He said that Frattini, Stroskan, Guzen Bauer, who you announced as rescuers, in fact, 12 years ago did immeasurable damage to Serbia. Now I ask you: Is this the evil opposition that does not allow you to move and show your quality? You have men in your own ranks who tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28828	Mr. Milivoevich, it really has nothing to do with this amendment. I understand that you're having a debate in principle, but by amendment, I really... I've allowed four minutes, but let's talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28829	I'd show you the best range of your policy by asking any passerby to open his wallet and say when he had more money or if you wanted another indicator, I'd show you again the range of your policy, but my microscope broke down.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28830	The word is made by MP Marijan Rističević after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ivo Andric described this time well and I wouldn't quote it too much, but I'd say they spoke rich. The time has come for millionaires to talk and tell us about their mistakes. They've forgiven us all but their mistakes. It is said, when a man sees sin, he ceases. This is where they called on Lazar Pachu, and they could have called on George Wyfert, but they should have told their finance ministers. Article 1 is an attempt to achieve savings, and saving is the best profit. We listened to the former finance minister, if he had stepped on his wallet, he'd have seen it even better, through public spending, I guess that's what he meant, resuscitating production. They kept trying for 10 to 12 years. They borrowed land, but the money did not go into production, but directly through public consumption went for the purchase of foreign goods and so today there are two-thirds of foreign goods on the market, and only one-third of domestic origin. It's not compensated by over-export and it's the source of our accident. They left quite a debt behind. This year it took 4.8 billion euros to pay off the debts made by the former finance ministers from the former regime's party, and next year it will take us five billion, one billion of which will go to interest, and the other four will go to the main payment. Today they ask – why are savings in the public sector, why are we reducing the number of employees, that is, without the permission of the ministry cannot be hired so easily by someone again in the public administration? They forget that they have created a state that operates 740,000 in the public sector. In the last 12 years, we have lost 400,000 inhabitants, lost some of the territory we control, but the number of officials has increased, just during the rule of the former finance ministers. They owed as much as they could, spent more, all the way to one. When you reconsider, you will see that these ministers have become easily millionaires, very easily millionaires. For example, the president of the former regime's party, only in five years, has been incometing all its companies $973 million. So he became a billionaire... (President: Please, Mr Risticevic, it is not the subject of this amendment. I'll explain to you that it's a topic. He became a billionaire by ordering from the public sector, through public sector employees, even printing booklets in the public sector for his company called "Big Print" or something. Employment in the public sector was so much so that this country couldn't handle it. In contrast, while multiplying the administration on the one hand, the number of real sector employees has been reduced on the other hand. We've lost 400,000 jobs, and if we hire someone else in the public sector, we'll lose, to everyone we hire in the public sector, two more jobs. That had to stop. I cannot support this amendment proposed by the parties of the millionaire, for the simple reason that would lead us to an even greater dubiosis. They repeat that saving is the best profit, that we don't raise production by increasing consumption, that it's time for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business to find a model to develop agriculture, energy, the processing industry, and that the money we're in charge of, if at all we can borrow more, because they're in charge, so now we just have to pay off their debts, they've been living off the man in charge, we have to live off the earned and get back what they've pulled while they're in debt. So, if there is a model to withdraw money for the next borrowing for production, for agriculture, for energy and the food industry and to have more employees in the real sector, every other pensioner today receives a pension from the budget, hence, and can't grow pensions unless we raise production. If those 400,000 jobs were left, now the komotive pensions could be 25% higher, but since they've ruined everything they've reached, it's unacceptable, at least for me, that they have to teach us moral education today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28832	Nenad Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28833	Mr President, Mr Minister, fellow MPs, the DSS has tabled an amendment to Article 1 of the Budgetary System Act on indexation, i.e. an increase in pensions and salaries in the public sector. The limit of salary growth on your proposal implies two increases, of 0.5% in 2015 and 2016, in April and October. The current legal solution foresees indexation in line with consumer price growth. Under the current law, in 2014 wage growth in the public sector and pensions is projected in April of 0.5% and 1% in October. In addition to this minimal increase, the possibility is projected, I will quote – that there is no increase in pensions and salaries in October, unless a regulation is passed that regulates the level of profit in the public sector. We have submitted an amendment to erase this position, because we find it unacceptable to question even the minimum wage and pension growth of 1% at this point. In particular, it is not in line with the government's declarations and this additional position, that it may not even come to this. What further is proposed? It is proposed to increase salaries and pensions by 0.5% in April and October 2015. Mr. Chairman, I'd just like to ask you to count this time from the time of the authorized representative. So pensions and salaries in 2015 are going to grow twice, just 0.5%, instead of this legal solution, by 2%, so four times less. If we take 2% of it's something big, it's going to grow by 0.5%. We propose this amendment, to remain at this position of 2% in April and October. Also, as for 2016, wages and pensions are proposed to rise by 0.5%, instead of aligning with the inflation rate in the previous six months. This means that wages and pensions in 2016 will grow twice only 0.5%, instead of twice 2%, as we now propose by amendment. All this clearly leads to the conclusion that there will indeed be an objective deterioration of standards primarily by pensioners. Pensions will grow significantly less over the next three years than expected inflation. I'll give you an example. If we take the average income, next year the average income will have a salary increase of 707 dinars, while the average pension will increase by 380 dinars, and by estimates, expenditure on the consumer basket will increase by nearly 2,000 dinars. So, the average dinar of 707 dinars, the average pension of 380 dinars, and the consumer basket of about 2,000 dinars. Inflation will eat these increases multiple times and lead to a fall of standard. We know it's hard, and I don't think anyone in this room is going to say that the situation is easy. But I have to add that in the private sector there will be a fall in standards, because there will also be no increase. The bottom line of this is that the total savings, which will be obtained by reducing income for our citizens in 2015 and 2016, are equal to 160m euros. We can say that the number is small, we can say it's large, but surely we can all agree that it's not the key to this budget. We believe that the nature of the cause of difficulties in the functioning of Serbia's pension system is primarily the law, and we come out here with a requirement to immediately start reforming the pension system, but not by solving short-term problems, but in the medium and long term. I think that's where the government needs to show the knowledge, the ability, the initiative and, on this case, a new pension law, make some leaps over the next few years. What I would add, I will return to those 160m euros, how much savings it is. We can't agree that this 160 million will bring some big savings to the budget, even though the number isn't small, but it's not crucial. There are other places where these savings can be made, if we look at the political context. I think the Minister of Government and the Government are primarily political people. Taking just an example of the SAA. I also said last time, when we spoke in principle, that in 2008, we charged from customs, on products that came before the liberalisation of the agricultural products market, 800m euros. The following year, following the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we came to the conclusion that the figure fell to 400m euros to reach less than 300m euros this year, after four or five years. We're talking 160m euros. Look where the savings are. And here, surely, we lose a minimum of 300m euros from that liberalisation, although by some estimates, perhaps more. But you see where the bigger problem is, we are talking about the political concept of this solution – on January 1, 2014, in 20 days, full liberalisation begins, practically complete, with the EU market and I think we will have additional losses. Once again, these 160 million are not small, but they do not solve the problem of the budget, and on the other hand, for no reason do we allow us to lose 300 and more million euros because we have liberalised the market and especially what we will liberalise. Again, I have the greatest possible respect for our partners from the EU. It's the market where we export the most, and we have to carry on like that, we should, if we can, increase more. But we're going too soon for that liberalisation. All EU countries have liberalised the market for one, two or three years before joining the EU. We have liberalised five years ago, now we will liberalise since January, and the question is whether we will join the EU for the next 10 or 15 years. It was not accidentally chosen that moment to liberalize it a year, two or three before entering. Everyone knew that they would suffer certain losses from customs, since the entry of other products into the market, but there were also large funds that could replace those losses. Today, unfortunately, there aren't any of those funds either. In order to somehow get out of this and find those 160m euros on the other side, we think it is necessary to find a way not to allow full liberalisation in 2014. We spoke directly in this assembly a year ago, we had even some statements that talks with the EU might take place, as regards the postponement of this deadline for full liberalisation. Of course, I would add that in addition to the best possible relations with the EU, our clear view is that we should not go further into European integration, but we should maintain our political neutrality and, on the other hand, that economic, only economically, should be realistic, we should also move towards the Euro-Asian Union, in the way that countries from the EU are doing it. The best examples are large countries: Germany, France, England, Poland. Now Turkey, which has been a candidate for EU entry for many years, also wants to make a partnership with the countries of Euro-Asia, in particular Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus, and very likely soon also Kyrgyzija and Armenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28834	Thank you. Next reported for the word, MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28835	I must say, in my personal archive, I have a document that Dr Vojislav Kostunica and all the DSS ministers have authorized me to sign the SAA on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. So much for consistency. We're in those positions and we'll stay on them. You forgot to say we don't have SAAs, all our and foreign investors who would export to the EU would have to pay very high customs duties. If we wanted to be honest, we should include that bill, and that amount would be five to six times bigger than the one you say we lost. I'd go back to what we heard about borrowing. What kind of government this is sent to us on November 2nd of this year, respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the budget in which it says - Yes, we are in charge, is that the Fiscal Council says it is already a dangerous zone, is that the National Bank of Serbia tells us that we are entering these dangerous and tumultuous waters of debt, but we will still be in debt to 5.8 billion euros. The government is an absolute record player in Serbia following an increase in the country's external responsibility. Right now, as I speak, every second, our debt is growing to 97 euros. It is for those who have criticised Belgrade 60 times faster than Belgrade, and there is something to show in Belgrade. But here, in this budget, you said -- we finance the budget, so yes, you finance the current spending to survive, but there's no capital investment in this budget. And you wrote that in that budget we will borrow from that 5.9 billion euros in three billion euros in Emirat, sheik will lend us – he will not give us – three billion euros. Mr. Minister and dear colleagues, if we are so successful, could you tell this House exactly how much money from these Emirates has come to Serbia today? How much did it come from the Abu-Daby account in an account here in Belgrade or anywhere in Serbia? What's that? I'll give you the answer, because you know him and you smile. The answer is zero. As far as we know, that hotel you gave out there without a tender wasn't even paid. Zero. And we gave the future of the state to one man and one family. Well, even if we had to be in charge, change that. Let's say, "We'll be in debt, and we'll see where." Why do we give so much power and power to anyone to influence what's going on in our country? And what if he says no? So what do we do? You want to come to this house and change this budget? Because sheik won't. Maybe someone else will? Let's figure it out. We don't know which way we're going. Let's show you how much there is really no concept here. From November 2nd to November 28, how many days it is, twenty-six days, all of a sudden this government has told us by amendment -- it's not enough, let's put ourselves in charge of another eight hundred million euros. Why not? I'm not saying that APEX 5 is a program that inherits APEX 4 where we were involved is bad, but if it's good, how did you forget it? Is that how you get up one morning and forget half a billion euros, 300 billion euros? Then you discovered that you forgot to give one single dinar for active employment measures. Oh, well, now you've remembered there are unemployed, so you'll give a misery of two billion dinars. This is exactly what you're doing. With this amendment, we say, after a 5% drop in purchasing power for all citizens of the country since you came to power, you draw that every year, during which you will be in power, and what we will see, but if you stay, in your documents, not ours, what you have given us to read and what citizens can read on websites and in newspapers, you guarantee every citizen of this country that they will get worse and worse. It is not true, as we are told, that the pensioners are not affected, they are among the most affected. It is not true that we will live better in 2014, as Mr. Vukic said. And it's not true what you said, Mr. Minister, that we'll live better in 2015, you've been a little more careful. The budget says inflation next year 5%, those after 4.5%, and those beyond 4%. The salaries and pensions of this law we're fighting, if it's done, that's a colleague from the SPS, well noticed, if you make this general system, then it'll be 1.5% if it's not even 1%. Then one percent and one percent, all the worse every year. It's not just socially irresponsible, it's one losing strategy. We ask you humblely, to recognize what is happening here, to withdraw these laws. Let's all sit down and make a much more offensive strategy because what you're doing introduces us, as you said, the one you put into the NBS Council and an instant bankruptcy, and the deficit you're offering, to quote him because you don't trust us -- with 7.1% of GDP this deficit is the highest in Serbia's history with the exception of what you did in 2000 when we inherited you in power last time. Now we're climbing to 7.1% again. The National Bank of Serbia thus tells us that such a deficit has in the world only countries that are either at war or in unstable political situations. Seeing what is said, what top state officials are currently saying, who is being accused in what way, apparently, after economic chaos, we are also expected by huge political turbulence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28836	Replica, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28837	Dear People's MPs, Parliament Speaker Djelic, has confused some things by saying he has a document that, claiming to have a document that Kostunica has authorised him to sign the SAA. What's wrong? He confused dates and procedures. What he has and what he had is permission to paralyze the SAA. This happened on November 7, 2007. He was paraphrasing the SAA with that famous pen, but the paraphras, as you know, is simply a confirmation of the main negotiator that the negotiations are over. For the signing that took place on 29 April 2008, he did not have the government's approval, so neither did the Prime Minister, Kostunica. First of all, there was no approval of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Government in which I chaired at the time. The committee split up without a proposal from the government to sign the SAA. Then the government itself could not decide without a proposal from the Committee, although it could make such a decision, but the decision was not made. The SAA was signed in an extra legal way. After these, acts of disapproval by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Government itself, a team went to Luxembourg, headed by President Tadic, on which the SAA signed. Now, if we were to banish the machete, and why not, in a legal sense, it's clear, that document is illegal. He did not have the government's approval, and later, of course, he had a ratification of parliament. But if we watch how things started, that ratification is consequently illegal. So the thing went completely different. I don't know what it's like to talk today about things that are once done, and that actually have facts of their own. Between November 2007 and April 2008, important things happened, as you know. Negotiations on Kosovo were completed without success on December 10th with a report by the troika, and then Kosovo simply declared independence. (President: Time. ) The Democratic Party of Serbia felt that the SAA was not to be signed and therefore acted in this way in all bodies. You know further history.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28838	Replica, Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28839	Mr. Samardzic, of all the signatures after this, is your favorite, because, of course, I had the authority in November to initial it, and in December, in advance, yes, I did not hide it, I asked for the authority to sign it, you gave it to me, and then you were sorry. Afterwards you had various attempts to prevent what was good for Serbia and what this home had ratified and, behold, miracles, with a good part of the radical voices. And today, in this home, it seems to me that the measure of progress is the fact that we have agreed on certain things. No one has any illusions that the EU is honey and milk, that's what those in it say. We don't have that illusion in the DS, but we've been a party that's been very well recognized for 20 years that this time with all the difficulties and certain faults is good for our citizens. You are not an economist, but anyone who deals with investment in the past 12 years, at any level, will confirm to you, everyone, including a domestic investor, how far you've come with Europe, that the SAA is a legal form, an instrument that guarantees years to come, that we have stable trade relations with the largest market in the world of the EU. Today, someone who came here, including Russian investors, each time they ask, is everything okay with the EU? And we, when we invest in Serbia, want to have stability and that we can export without customs to that market. To them it is an advantage, because they cannot export from Russia in this way, and it is a great benefit that those Westerners can export from Serbia to Russia without customs. And one thing, Mr. Samardzic, and another, that's how it should be, and that's DS policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28840	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to draw attention to a minister who can't do things. So, don't write the laws most optimisticly, as the government ministers did, Mirko Cvetkovic, but predict the worst scenario in the law. If it gets any better, it'll be easy to change the law and we haven't lied to anyone. The other thing you can't do is give subsidized loans to the economy, indexed in euro. Don't ever do that. Now I'm going to tell you that in 2011, they ruined the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises. It was the beginning of the crisis and they wanted to, in 2010 it was to help the economy allegedly, to allocate certain funds in the budget, to talk to banks, and to conclude contracts. The banks were then exclusively giving loans indexed in euro, and according to the subsidized very low interest, which was, at that time, 7%, the difference from the commercial one, was paid from the budget, and as a consequence we had the euro then jumped from 94 dinars to 110 dinars. That's how they destroyed Serbia's economy. So, through conditions, a business that no one could predict, if he wanted to operate in a certain way. It is now a problem that you too have as finance minister, that is, the problem this government has, how to convince those people who have capital, how to convince them that Serbia is a stable state, that there are laws in Serbia... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I answered after the amendment. I apologize, so we have a problem trying to convince people that Serbia is a stable country, that it has a legal system, that it has laws, that they are respected and that Serbia wants to operate on market conditions, not speculative as it was during the previous governments. [[President: I've given you a replica...]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28842	Mr. Samardzic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28843	As convincing as Djelic was in his argument, he says that two minutes and 20 seconds, only the first 10 seconds he answered my questions directly, and the remaining two minutes and 10 seconds he dedicated it to a bright European future, which has nothing to do with this dispute. So when it comes to those 10 seconds, where it was mentioned that there was an advance signature of mine in December 2007, it doesn't go into what I was talking about. I was talking about a policy change after Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence, a disturbance within the government and the inability for the government to gain the right power to sign the SAA. Once again, Kostunica did not give his signature, and in December 2007, it happened, by nature, before February 2008, when politics changed, as announced in December. So, let's stick to the controversy, stick to the facts and statements that are given in that region and try to deny each other to the public, and let's not put in again a quasi-aergument, which in itself doesn't deny what I've been saying, and devote the rest of the time to the story that we're going to do on one other occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28844	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28845	Ladies and gentlemen, dear Minister, I would just like to say a few words as to why your position is good and why it comes from this member, from the root of bad policy, or where we are today, and where we were yesterday. It doesn't matter if you're building an economic policy in one situation when you're a little in charge, when you've got something to sell, and when you've got these new debts, you're investing all that sales in construction, say, a pool in the Kovačica municipality, and then this additional construction costs twice as much, so today someone has to answer or you take advantage of those 10 years... That we do not have as many socially endangered categories as we do today, by opening new jobs in production, but instead of making new jobs in production, you employ people in another sector, and you create conditions that people simply have nothing to do and you create a Serbia that has no Europe to offer in the European integration process. Inclusion in Europe, as you said, as some say, is not honey and milk, but joining the EU is positioning the country on a large market and if you lose 10 years without having a concrete offer in that market, then it is very dangerous things, and we are building swimming pools in Kovacica, instead of doing production, such as the issue of Fiat, which is a good thing, to offer something to Europe, to destroy our economy. That's why 10 years ago our students, instead of having adequate conditions for studying, had to dig channels, do different things to finish colleges and today they don't know how they're going to get hired. You have full support in making it clear to the public that this savings is solely because one irresponsible policy was conducted, and after a irresponsible policy and that it is a great responsibility for responsible parents, which is today the Government of the Republic of Serbia for all Serbia, to say we must and expect us to have a serious and difficult time. From that difficult time, we must come out by paying for the mistakes made in the past. You have full support for that, so this amendment cannot be accepted for that reason. I agree, that's the last sentence, with a colleague who suggested, we can't live in a country where the president of the state will have a salary of 1,000 and a few euros in the longer term, and yes, let's just say, I don't know how many employees have four or five times the salary. I completely agree with you on that. However, the question is whether Serbia can make all these changes today or whether it has to be just one goal for us, and today we are where we are and today we all have to suffer serious and difficult consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28846	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28847	Dear Vice President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I must respond to what Mr. Shane said. You know what, I don't think Serbian citizens are ruled by Serbia, by mom, by dad, by any parent. That is why we are in this situation where we are now discussing the law, or the amendment by which in 2015, 2016, linearly everyone, regardless of the effects, wages, or pensions, will grow by 0.5%, because some thought that the state should be a tutor, mom, dad, that citizens and businesses are minors who need to determine how to behave, and that is why we came into the situation that our deficit is this big, or that we are short of over two billion euros. Let's get back to the amendment at last. I'd like to remind you, Mr. Popovic, of your amendment. I wish I could go back to 2008. I see that this is where the debate is being held and the spear is being broken about how the SAA was being signed, I see that you are not having a debate about how the other one was being signed when you adopted at the same time, which was being protested by thousands of citizens of this country in front of the government on 9 May 2008, a shameful energy agreement, and we have much more problems in the budget than the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but let's get back to the topic. It bothers me, Mr. Krstic, we've already talked about this, this general linear approach. In 2008, among other things, a huge problem in the PIO Fund was created by the lack of a coalition agreement to form power through the resignation of the PUPS, which in that year made such an increase in pensions, making 500m euros short and then stretching it year after year. So we came to the conclusion that in the structure of the income of the PIO Fund this large share comes from the budget itself and that hasn't changed today, Mr. Arsic, while we're at it. Perhaps I would understand if, as Minister, I could hear the basic data of what is now going on in the reform of the PIO Fund. There may be room now for us to reorganise this fund differently and to organise a pension system in Serbia differently. Mr Djelic asked a few days ago, he was surprised that PUPS MPs were not protesting against measures such as this, or that pensioners would be threatened? I don't think they have any reason to protest. These 0.5% at 70, 80, 90,000 dinars of pension with a parliamentary salary don't look like a bad increase or a bad addition. It's not the pensioners who receive 20 or 23 grand. That's why this famous story about presenting the pensioner's interest is actually the most common empty story and fog. I have specific questions for you, Mr. Cross. How many, say, facilities, at this point, does the PIO Fund have in Serbia? How are these objects used? Are any contracts concluded for these facilities, for example, or are they leased into different types or other uses? If you have that information, tell me who mostly uses these facilities? You know that these are buildings, or objects that are, in particular, in the interior of Serbia, located in the best locations. If it's worth something in those places, if there's interest in that space, then it's compared to state buildings, in this case the building of the PIO Fund. For us, it is a very important issue of the PIO Fund's assets, because from that property's normal management, there could be a significant amount of funds that would reduce this part that comes from the budget. Who does that, Mr. Baptizer? Is that what 21 members of the board of directors of the PIO Fund do? He's dealing with a few of them on personal enthusiasm on this board of directors. Others don't. That's why I think it's not fair for you to say – okay, you'll all pay the price by raising your pensions by only 0.5%. That's the wrong approach. He's applied before. Access to reduce the deficit due to the PIO fund, by reducing pensions through inflation every year, is not good, is not sustainable, and especially when you apply the same to salaries, then you actually have no reform anywhere and you won't get anywhere. That's one group of questions. Another group of questions, when it comes to wages, we'll talk about it a little later when it comes to order, the amendment that I filed is that second bottomless hole. It's the National Employment Service, Mr. Baptizer. I have a few specific questions here. I assume you've read the shameful explanation of the 2014 draft financial plan of the National Employment Service. I'll wait for you to consult with your associates, so I'll ask you a question, Mr. Cross. So, did you see those people, or those who run the National Employment Service, say they were terribly burdened? They say they're overloaded. I'm sure there are wonderful people who work at the National Employment Service, at least half the people work hard. I asked around, they say they're employment counselors, they're the ones who really work with people every day. These are people with higher education, their salary is somewhere around 45,000 dinars, that each longer, as they usually say, is about 1,500 people without a job. I believe they're working. Do you think it's normal for the National Employment Service to have 1,804 perpetrators today? So 1,804 people work indefinitely at the National Employment Service. The explanation doesn't say how much of it is on the contract. You know, when it doesn't say how much it's on the contract, it's a little suspicious and it means it's a lot on the contract. Do you think it's normal for the National Employment Service to have over 30 branch directors around Serbia? Do you think it's normal for them to write that they're organized on a territorial basis and they do it in the direction of two rural employment services, as if the same things could work in Vojvodina and Kosovo? Then you have some addresses in Kosovo, so it says next door – there is no phone. How does the Office of the National Employment Service help someone find a job when there is no phone in some place in Kosovo? Who employs people in Kosovo, whether the National Service or Alexander Vulin or Krstimir Pantic or anyone else? If it's a substitute for social assistance to these people, then it should go through the budget as social assistance, it shouldn't go through the National Employment Service. That's the basic problem. We talked about it. A third of the money that goes to social protection in one way or another is actually going to pay and compensation to those who are in charge of providing social protection to the socially vulnerable. It's nonses. Then at the end of the day, they all pay the same price. I think it's a completely wrong approach. To pretend we don't have any chance of surviving. If every time the issue of pension fund reform is mentioned, someone jumps and says they're rights acquired. Then I guess someone else has acquired rights in this country or it's a right -- we've settled in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for the rest of our lives, or for the rest of the dynasty. Do you know what the cost of travelling to the National Employment Service in 2014 is? One hundred and nine million dinars. That's almost a million euros. He says he's going to travel through Serbia and coaches are going to help people find a job. First, I don't know why they travel when they have 34 branches, two regional directorates, 180 buildings in Serbia. For these buildings, of course, they will spend some money, some billions of dinars will spend in 2014. As a joke in Serbia, someone knows someone who's been hired by the National Employment Service. That's funny to everyone. Half the people, the previous governments before her, pushed into that service and it was the only way they could find a job, and now you expect those people to help someone else find a job. Those are the answers we're interested in, Mr. Baptizer. I agree when it's said that we have to sit down and deal about it, without pulsism, without constantly returning to the past. I don't understand what these constant accusations mean in 2008, 2009, 2010. We were also against such behavior. But what does it have to do with today and who can it help at all? Next year we'll have an even worse situation. I don't think you should have predicted this. I understand that you have foreseen projections for two or three years, and that's what governments do all the time, but you and I know that if there's enough reason in this country, before that 2015 and 2016, we're going to have to go to the elections, so that these elections should be what we're talking about right now, that all the political parties in this campaign will behave responsibly, not as in last campaign, when LDP said in February 2012 – let's agree and sign a mutual agreement that we will not make unfulfilled promises in the campaign, that we will all advocate to conclude a contract with the IMF. That's when he fell, to remind you, last agreement with the IMF. Everyone was silent, so everyone in the campaign went through Serbia, had some imaginary money bag, promised jobs and jobs, and of course it collapsed today. Let's make new elections, a new campaign without it, to be a reform of the PIO Fund, a system of employment, market reform, labour legislation reform, and then have a normal policy in this country. This way at 0.5, 0.7, or 1% every year, without knowing what these people are doing in these funds, once, for the second, third, I haven't even arrived at the Health Insurance Fund to talk about, we're not going anywhere. There they are, sitting there right now, watching this transmission and laughing at us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28848	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28849	Just to answer that this government's intention is exactly that - the reform of state administration and state institutions, which we have already begun by looking at how many people there are, so I'm going to answer for this. The National Employment Service just called me, has 2084 employees, of which 1842 on indefinite and 242 on a specific. We're going to go in together, I've said it before, and we're going to talk about how many people in all institutions we need and what kind of people we need, how we need to edit their profits, how it would be even and how it would be in line with what's being achieved. I haven't entered individual institutions in these two, two and a half, three months I've worked at the Ministry, but we've run along with the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration the issue of public sector reform, just talking about these things. That is the intention of this government after the reconstruction to address these topics very seriously. Although there were no amendments, I just wanted to confirm that we are going in this direction, and the reason why we have to go in the budget, that is, in the Budgetary System Act, which we're talking specifically about right now, is because we don't have a mechanism to do it differently because it has to be a previous detailed analysis that we've already started with. Just to add, we'll ask the same question about property. I'm not just talking about the PIO Fund or the National Employment Service, which you've been talking about, but also the state property that exists at different levels in different institutions, to see what it takes, how it's used and whether the state is the best and real owner of these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28850	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28851	Thank you for some answers. It will be difficult to come to the conclusion of what and what extent it should be doing, let's say, the National Employment Service, if we don't talk about the concept first. We need a classic desk of work, as it used to be, at a time when the national service, or what was then called, was the only authorised state entity, the state body involved, in a completely different economy and economy, or we have to respect the fact that in the meantime, in the market for mediation or job-seeking, some other players also appeared. You have an abnormal situation today. There are problems here, there are problems, there are different abuses, there are talk of the Labour and Employment Act in that way, but you still have some kind of market that's formed. So these people work, they find a job. They end up doing much better in many situations than the National Employment Service, then you expect them to pay taxes to finance their direct competition that is protected as a white bear, a state. It's not that small, Mr. Krstic, 35 billion dinars is the budget, or all the revenues of the National Employment Service. It's often forgotten here. We give them 13 or, as you've changed now, about 15 billion dinars is a direct donation from the budget, but 19 billion, what is that? That's, say, 170m euros. They get by paying all the employees in this country out of their incomes some kind of contribution that goes to that National Employment Service. So 170m euros or, if you want, 320m euros to go through the National Employment Service is almost the amount we get by selling below NIS. So in one year we eat NIS, which we've given everything with oil findings, worth a few billion euros. That's what happens when politics is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28852	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28853	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with his men, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will talk about the amendment because I am concerned that one man, who was once the finance minister, said in his proposal the amendment would delete Article 1 and no other explanation. It's not a good thing from a man who knows that the draft budget law is a complex thing. Whether one member or another is deleted, there is a great pressure on the concept of the Serbian budget law. So if we had the surplus they left behind the deficit, this budget law would be quite different. There wouldn't be so many polemics and there wouldn't be so many amendments. Unfortunately, we have received a deficit of 160 billion and in this time, this time, as you, the Democrats, have left us, otherwise could the bill on Serbia's budget have been done differently than the one that was made. There may have been two other, three variants, but of all these variants, this one was chosen in the light of the consent of the Serbian government and the minister himself. To many people in the former regime, the surplus is a normal thing, because the deficits don't know about their home budget, and they don't care how it happens here. They're proposing something that's impossible in a time like this where the economy doesn't even work 30%. They've destroyed it since 2000. If the revenue side of this budget was bigger with this deficit that we mentioned, the budget would be over in two hours. We can't rely on a budget like this, not to discuss the companies we have and the ones we need to sell without any production. There is no one and will never be with a stick to solve the problem of this situation in Serbia, but our government and the minister themselves are trying to save, by any means, from the local community to this Assembly, public enterprises, municipal enterprises. If everyone at 20-30%, and that's possible, only those who worked in these companies know that they can burn 30% in a variety of ways, we wouldn't have this deficit in the budget and we wouldn't be discussing this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28854	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28855	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 106, which says the speaker can only speak about that amendment that's on the agenda, the one we've already discussed and that's over. I'm sorry there's no bell on this class, so if people could wake up when they get in here at 12 o'clock, to ring the bell 12 times gong and then somebody would wake up and know what's going on. I understand the nervousness in front of the session of the SNS, who's going to pass, who won't, what's going to happen, but let's get a few people back together and see what's going on here, what's on the agenda. I understand that everyone has the right to get involved in the debate when they think it's necessary for their voters and for him, but even though we're not discussing what we've been through, we're not discussing it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28856	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The word is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28857	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I am reporting under this amendment. I hope you understand what the opposition wants to say to you all morning. In fact, the finance minister himself, without colleagues in the government who need to boost economic growth, has no chance of creating a stable situation in the macroeconomic economy, nor can it help raise standards. You have here suggested that by 2017 pensions and pensions in the public sector fall. He did say he'll grow 1% every year, and you're predicting inflation. That's what your fellow MPs told you. As someone who ran the budget, I understand what this strategy is, but what's the problem? If you do not have at the same time at the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture, above all, sources of faster economic growth, you make this reduction of pensioners and public sector employees' standards to be in vain, because you reduce people's pensions and wages by wanting to reduce pensions and salaries in gross domestic product, and gross domestic product is zero. It's not growing. You predicted 1% growth. There's no way you're going to have growth when you cut the agricultural budget, when you've eliminated the consequences of the investment. I'm not saying you, but your government colleagues, that's what I said at first. Where are people's lives going to improve if there's no economic growth? It's a question of all the questions. If you look at how economic growth has moved in Serbia, there have been better times, I admit that there is another situation in the world. From 2004 to 2006, gross domestic product grew from 5% to 8% annually. He went down when the global economic crisis broke out. 3.5% dropped in 2009, so that, thanks to the very subsidiesd loans that one MP, a colleague here from the ruling party, was criticised, would rise again to 1.6% in 2010 and 2011. When these subsidized loans were abolished by the economy, then it fell again in 2012 to minus 1.7%. Without pumping money into the economy and without investing in agriculture, there is no economic growth. It's best to take a look at the growth structure data this year. This year is better maltene than anyone since 2007, because growth will be 2.4%. Ask yourself why it's better. It's better because agriculture has brought up one part of that growth and because some parts of the industry have done it, above all, export-oriented sectors, primarily the automotive industry and electronics, part of the pharmaceutical industry, the furniture industry. These are the branches that have grown in this period. Is it not logical, then, to give more money for agriculture and to give more money for new investments in export-oriented branches and plus to encourage both domestic and medium-sized enterprises, to connect with these largest exporters in the supply chain, and to expand and increase the export base? What do I want to tell you? If you're looking at only one side, the one you run and you're in charge of, and that's the fiscal side, without having to do with industrial policy and agrarian politics, there's no chance of success either country, nor you as finance minister, because you're putting out a fire here by attacking the largest budget items, which are salaries and pensions, you're reducing them, but there's no such effect of reducing them if you don't grow a gross domestic product much faster than you're designing. He can't grow without investment. That's what I try to talk about all the time. You're doing half the stabilization policy. You're missing this offensive second component. That's why the rate of wage cuts and pensions in the absence of these others is in vain, because your deficit will continue to grow on the basis of interest growth on loans. You know that, no matter what you've reduced the subsidies to agriculture, no matter what you've abolished investment in the economy. What's worse, the reforms you're talking about, and I'm sure you want them, your colleagues stopped them in other restaurants. Look what's going on in the economy. If you have these enterprises in restructuring, when I finished my term, I left about 150 of those companies somewhere. Well, it's still 150. Why even for those companies that were interested in serious strategic partners to invest in them, to improve, why is it not finished? Why was the Belarusian Amkodor rejected who wanted to take over several parts of Petolke because it is the strongest company in Belarus? Why won't anyone talk to serious investors about Magnohra? I've been to the King's, come, no one in the government will accept investors who can raise the company. It's just unreasonable. Why is no contract signed to build a new factory "Gorenje" and "Panasonic" in Zajecar, although we signed the pre-contract, me and Mr. Vukic together? We need to make a million washing machines a year and make 250m euros in exports, as if there are so many factories in Zajecar that work well. There isn't. There's more work to be done. This is what I'm saying to you to pass on to your colleagues, because if you work at the Ministry of Finance, yours has become in fiscal matters, and the Ministry of Business is doing nothing or is dealing with some fictitious cleaning of the balances of failed companies. I'm asking you now, that's what I asked you when we talked about in that internal conversation – what is the purpose of cleaning up the balance sheet of companies that failed 20 years ago, IMT, FAP, "14 October"? What kind of serious investor is interested in demand for debts and FAP supplies? Do you have to pay someone to go all the way to Priboj, because it's not close and there's no good roads, and then we pay him extra, as a state, to invest "Fiyat" in the flag, to invest in FAP? Should anyone pay Mercedes this, not that we fear that the FAP is not sold for nothing, that the first five-year-old is not sold for incompetence, and for 20 years no one lives to be interested in them? Then an arithmetical accounting balance-cleaning operation, where workers go crazy, will convert your claims into capital. So, who's in the interest of being a co-owner of FAP? What to do with that co-ownership at a failed firm? Or be co-owner of IMT, with equipment 40 years old? How can you listen that a colleague who runs the business is driving everyone in the government, the whole public, with these personal cards of failed businesses? I can imagine, and it's okay to do the Telecom ID, the EPS, the gold mine, if we have it, but what are we doing anyway? They're still asking that these companies, which they don't even have to pay, hire appraisals to report to them according to international accounting standards. So why doesn't the Ministry pay the certified auditors he has under the law? All that data exists. All they need is someone to put it together. This is where people who have 30-year-old machines don't have heating in halls, that they do a report according to international accounting standards. The whole of Serbia is laughing at your colleague Radulovic, but what is your problem? Serbia's laughing at him, that's his problem. Your problem is that if there is no economic growth, and it will not be because the incentives for investment have been lifted, the reduction of the budget for agriculture, the waste of people working in the public sector, and not this year, but until 2017 and pensioners. How can they live better if they don't grow production? That's the problem. Think about it. You can't influence it yourself, but you're part of this government where, without the support of your colleagues, you're really working hard here. One more thing. This year, which is really very important, economic growth will be 2.4 which is better than it was, but not enough for Serbia. It could have been 5%, only that construction remained at the same level as last year. Construction, which was usually bad last year because it was 50% below the crisis in 2008. However, this year compared to that poor previous one, construction fell almost 40% and this brought down the index of total economic growth. Why don't your colleagues really bring before us MPs finally this bill of planning and construction, where bureaucratic procedures are lifted? Why is it that three billion euros, still in 2007 for investment projects in Serbia, from the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, other international financial institutions, finally people who do not start using infrastructure projects? Everyone complains there's no money to invest in, and we have over three billion unrepaired loans to which a penalty is paid. You know that well, because pens are paid through the Ministry of Finance. I asked the minister to see what it was about, but it's impossible to do it in the government that works not with one engine, but works with a quarter of the engine. That's impossible. That plane can't fly, it has to fall and unfortunately collapse. I wish you all the best, but think about what I've told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28858	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28859	I think this is the subject of conversation when the budget comes. There will also be a minister of the economy, as it relates to that part. There are measures in the budget for economic development. You know, it's also been a public debate to prepare a new law on privatisation and bankruptcy which is why the resolution of the company in the restructuring company was delayed, but since it's not the subject of the budget system law, I would say it's appropriate to leave it for next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28860	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28861	For the sake of truth, this is the budget schedule of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management for 2013 and this amount defines the Law on Subsidies and Measures to Promote the Development of Agriculture and Rural Development which we adopted in this conference. Total subsidies and percentage of the 2013 agricultural budget, the part relating to subsidies is 84% and you're right. Capital investment is 7%. A total of 91% of the total budget for agriculture. With the 2014 proposal, subsidies from 84% are now 77% of the budget, but therefore capital investments are 14%. How much my math skills are, and it's good, when you add these numbers to 91 percent. So, there are no cataclysmic announcements – no investments, no subsidies, no nothing, a quarter of the engine, a plane crash, or I don't know what. This is how it's supposed to be at the Ministry of Agriculture. On the other hand, when we are at Magnochroma and when we talk about such things and such enterprises, there is one saying in the Serbian people that says – whom the snake bites and the lizard fears. In view of the experiences that were in that area, in Magnochroma, Indians, privatized, cut, taken, ruined, there is fear in these people. Not just fear in these people, but because we no longer have the right to mistake and to spend more time better in good judgment, good strategic partner, good privatisation, lasting privatisation, but we will repeat mistakes, and there have been many in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28862	The word is made by MP Mladjan Dinkic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28863	I just recommend you go to the King and talk to the workers and management of the Magnochroma. It is not normal that if there are two offers, not one, but two of the strategic partners, that the Ministry of Economy does not accept any of the potential candidates involved. I'm not saying that the Ministry of Economy has to accept these offers, but not to talk, that kind of autism certainly won't help solve the problem. The leadership and unions think one of these offers is good, but I guess someone from the government should talk about it. They tell me in the King - please tell Mr. Wolfie to take us in. Why? Because the Minister of Economy doesn't accept us. Then what does the Minister of Economy do if everyone has to go to Vukic to solve the problem? It's impossible, then, that government works well. That's what I'm talking about. As for the agricultural budget, the agricultural budget will be 4.16% next year compared to the 5% foreseen by the Encouragement Act that this Assembly has adopted. I'm just saying, when you look at the structure of the budget, there are other parts of the waste of money, you should add 9.5 billion dinars to agriculture to get 5% of the total budget. Because it would immediately return through higher revenues and higher GDP growth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28864	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28865	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my colleagues and colleagues, I had no intention of reporting on this amendment, but my colleague Dinkic brought some things to my attention, so I just had to react. One of us slept through these 10 or 12 years ago. A long time ago, during my youth and that Communism, there was a period of titoism that read from words to deeds. Mr Dinkic tells a wonderful story here about what to do, how to do, and he participated at least two-thirds of the previous 12 years in the direct implementation of these ideas and measures. We've cut salaries for that time, not by reducing them by the difolt, but by reducing them they simply melted themselves and without these measures that this government is trying to take now, to reduce them to make additional savings, because the budgeting is practically disabled. The economy that doesn't produce, which stands simply can't fill the budget, so now some single-percent crumbs or two percent growth or cost cuts count in some kind of success. You said -- isn't it logical to give subsidies to agriculture, to increase these subsidies to get something at higher production, but to give, from whom to take to give? Should we take from those who don't have to give to those who don't have anything? For the past 12 years, everything that was produced has been spent. Nobody practically produces anything in this country, so the question is why don't they give more to others so they can produce more practically indecisive questions, because you have no one to take from, except to borrow from abroad, or from someone who has, and then tape you with big interest. These subsidies that are given to agriculture and businesses in the past ten, twelve years have largely disappeared on the way to the last user to use these subsidies, so you have absurd situations to those extremes, to say the beneficiary of the subsidies in agriculture, at least to those small rural holdings, only to which the crumb came. It is very easy and nice to talk, to have an idea, but this idea is obviously very difficult to implement and I believe that former Minister Dinkic himself is aware that it was terribly difficult to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28866	MP Mladjan Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28867	It's a good thing you mentioned that question. Believe it or not, calculate for yourself, I've been Minister of Finance for three and a half years in all the 12 years you've mentioned. I was in the government of Vojislav Kostunica from 2004 to 2006, when he was prime minister and now I was in this last government for a year. Look at this chart. This chart shows you the movement of wages in schools, in hospitals, in health care and in education in the last ten years. The last time the salaries were raised during the term of office of Vojislav Kostunica and mine as finance minister in 2006, 30%, after that never again. They were just going down. The second thing, if we're talking about concrete results, so this growth in the economy this year is 2.4% higher because of the automotive industry. If it hadn't been for five years before the first contract with the Fiat, then if 150 other companies had not come thanks to the incentives of Siepa, it would have certainly been the automotive industry in Serbia at the level of ten years ago, so there would have been no. The flag used to give half a billion euros for six years of subsidies to safeguard social peace, and this one company is now one billion and a half euros. In other words, I'm just saying that what was good, I'm not saying that everything was good, you should try to multiply, if there were mistakes, and you have to correct it. I only told our young finance minister, who I want best in my career, that his work at the Ministry of Finance won't be enough if he's not followed by investments in economy and agriculture and if he doesn't grow a gross domestic product, which means the government has to work full capacity, not just with one quarter of the engine, as I said. PRESIDENT: I would like to ask the Members of Parliament... I think we're out of the subject, so we're going to the amendment and we're not running a replica that's not in line with the agenda anymore. The amendment has the People's MP Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28868	Thank you. I was just about to get back on the subject. Since I've been sitting here for a long time, sitting here for half an hour and listening, using terms -- no pulsism, root problems, etc., they're somewhere on the other side, and I just wanted to remind myself a little bit of how I can and support the whole concept of what this set of laws wants to prepare for next year. You can't do it in the time that we've been through right now. You can't do it because it's not a sword that's been cut off. It's a thousand swords. When privatisation laws were passed when local banks were destroyed, and then these four large banks and when this key injection, which is called financing production in the economy, and when we didn't restructure in the economy, which we were supposed to do then, and then we did the Privatisation Act, came to the point that there were 780,000 unemployed in Serbia today. Speaking on the subject of employment only through criticism of the founding state without seeing the root, the real roots of the crisis, I don't think it's good. We've lost our income. We've run out of ideas and those who have authority. Everything went up to the state level, to some minister's portfolio. I'm saying there are over 30 organisational units in Serbia, and we have some huge assets. We have that, of course, but we've lost our powers. We're just in the middle of a record business. Where do we do everything on record? With taxes, we don't have income. We're registering the situation. We've lost revenue sources. We're dealing with the fact that someone's out of a job. We're dealing with what's-his-name. By training to revive employment fairs. A man can't regularly come. We lost some competition institutes, a public job call, and so on, what used to be true, and now we say we want the employment bureau. Of course we should return the employment desk as a place where you can go as a young man to sign in and have someone give you a frequent sentence. What happened in the meantime? In the meantime, we've had various kinds of laws and regulations, and we've led to the choice of local authorities through this form, and we've lost our cutting and employment, and now we're asking for some kind of subsidies, and we're all living off state transfers. You can't go to a place where life is run, and that's a local community, big or small local administration, if you don't have the authority to do things by law to people and help them create conditions for their lives and to live better if you're waiting for some transfer just to release the wages. You can't handle this. There are conditions here and the minister has said well that there is a chance that in the coming year if there is serious reform of the system he will do something serious. That's my opinion, and that's why I'm going to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28869	National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev, Gorica Gajic, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28870	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the DSS has tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft bill on the budgetary system where, as you have already heard, we have all lauded the amendments of all colleagues from the parliamentary groups who have discussed so far are very similar. Since a colleague has already talked about salaries and pensions, I will be based on employment. First of all, I would like to repeat to the Minister that if he did not read the Constitution, he would have to see that Article 190 states that the activities of which municipalities should deal with to ensure that municipalities deal independently in accordance with the law of the budget, deal with certain activities – tourism, hospitality, environmental protection, entrepreneurship, etc. and I think you need to pay attention to that, and in this way, a complete ban on employment until the beginning of 2016, we won't get anything. So this part of this article worries me the most. I would also like to discuss with you -- how does the Government give itself the right to disturb, for example, this particular member of the Constitution and to impose on local self-governments above all else, of course, here is the talk of users of all public funds, how will they do certain jobs, that they simply will not be able to carry out all that is given to them by the Constitution as jurisdiction, which they have to deal with without enough staff? At the same time, I use the opportunity to ask you a question that you did not answer last time – what will happen to those local self-governments that have fewer employees than the quota defined by the Max Number of Employees Act? So, who do not have permanent, indefinitely employed, such as public procurement reference, construction inspector, municipal, local tax administration and those people who should be there to handle the problem of collecting property taxes, etc. I'm also interested -- how will the government, how will it be some other competent authority, how will the ministry make these proposals? I wonder, how many people will, for example, be in that other competent authority, standing here in one of the positions of this Article 1, how many people will be there, just reading these requests for consent of all those people to their homes of health, the Ministry of the Interior, the police, from the homes of culture, from sports centres, from local self-government, from kindergartens, etc.? I think it's very important that we know how many people there are going to be. It is very important that we know and what is the deadline for obtaining these consents. Also, since this member is talking about a government act that will closely regulate the procedure for obtaining the consent of the 35th member, I would like to know what this act will contain. It's very important that we define that too. You know, in order for a local self-government to work, to be able to work, to attract investment and something to happen, it has to work, for example, to edit infrastructure, to utility sites, I've already talked about, to issue building permits. That's what you've been talking about, and you've talked about it more than once. Therefore, there must be an amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction, the issue of building permits. But if we don't have employees in those places right now in local self-government, these local self-governments won't be able to work. We can pass whatever bill of planning and construction you want, if we don't have people to implement it, it's certainly not going to be anything. So these investments won't even be able to be realized. I'd also like to ask you -- how are we going to deal with volunteer and intern issues now? In the previous period, with the help of the National Employment Service, certain procedures have been implemented, i.e. professional practice programmes, where finished students could get a job, actually do this traineeship or professional practice, and somehow local self-government and public enterprises have been excellent places for where they gain experience with their enthusiasm, with their theoretical knowledge they can help people who already work in local self-government and are long employed there. In this way we helped them to get a year or, depending on how it was defined, what ended, what degree of school, to gain that experience, and then on that basis they could become employed in a private company or elsewhere. This is how all employers literally demand that only those workers who have experience be hired, so that the finished students will absolutely have no option. I don't know how much you've been able to read lately and what citizens' attitudes are, but you have to know that what citizens are talking about right now about these laws, they say that this is a purely anti-constitutional discrimination between educated people who are waiting for work and asking questions – why should students ever finish colleges if they don't have a place to work? The problem is that they have no experience and can't be hired elsewhere at this point. I think you should reconsider whether this is the measure that will help change something in this country. I think the managerial approach to governance in local self-governments, but also to the state, should be applied, not to this political one, it's already outdated, and every responsible and safe management will certainly work on it, and I think that, in any case, through these laws, it does not bring any benefit, but only brings harm. The budget savings of some 45m euros from this measure is indeed minor in the budget compared to the damage it will do to local self-government and other public funds users.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28871	The word has Minister Krstic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28872	Thank you. As far as local self-government is concerned, since you've been focusing largely, of course this is not a complete freeze of employment, in the sense that no one will be given consent where it makes sense, we discussed it a few days ago. As far as constitutional pollution is concerned, it is already limited by this law, which is currently in force for local self-government and the state administration. The government will define the procedure by regulation, which this process will be. What I can guarantee you is that we will install reasonable deadlines into this and that this government body will meet and respond within a period that will not paralyze the state anyway, within a month. One more thing about the body itself. I wouldn't worry about it, because we're taking it seriously, along with the Justice Department, the state administration reform business, where we also have advice. We've already started our activities. There is not only a register of employees that I and the Ministry of Finance talk about very often, it also exists and is largely finished – the register of institutions, which speaks on what legal basis a certain institution exists, which deals with, analyzes whether there are overlaps between different institutions, how much money it spends, how many employees, how much it really takes, which is the structure of these unemployed etc. In all this insight that has already begun and has already begun, this activity will not be an excessive addition, or some great burden for the government, as such. And also, what's essential, which we haven't talked about, is that the government doesn't care about frameing. We're interested in limiting budget costs and limiting employment where it's unreasonable. This means that the government will not plead on individual candidates, but whether there is a need for a particular place or not. I will personally advocate, when it is discussed, that it is not discussed, even if not known, on the body of the government, which is specifically discussed to the candidate. In a large number of cases, it would have been before the competition was called, so I just want you to make sure that the intentions here are to control what has not been controlled so far. As far as volunteers are concerned, what has no budget costs will, as a rule, be allowed. As far as this is concerned, it is already a domain – why finish colleges? I think what we've been talking about since the beginning, is that we're moving the gravity and we need to move it to the private sector. This is the answer – how are we actually going to develop an economy? It can't be the state that's going to be responsible for everyone's individual destiny. We need to transfer things to the hands of the individuals. What the state has to be responsible for is the collective destiny of all of us and that's what we're doing to this. We are trying to ensure that each individual will have a chance in normal conditions, in conditions that will not be poisoned by political criteria, that he will be able to get what he deserves by his work and his abilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28873	Replica, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28874	Thank you. I thank you for your answers, and I would really like this enthusiasm of yours, Mr. Minister, to move on to the other members of the government, because so far the government has and as I wish and wanted to frame it, and I sincerely hope that it won't be so in the future if this is what you're talking about goes on and on and on, which I think is usually very difficult. What I would not like is for the state and the ministry to determine both what and how local self-government will do, that is, why they do not trust local self-government and whether it makes sense to organise local elections and to choose certain people who run any municipality, whether public enterprises, directors, chiefs of management etc. I think they really, I repeat once again, serve like that, do nothing because they can't do anything, because they don't have enough people. There are so many restrictions from people who get so involved in the work of local self-government and bring them down to some level of local communities. It is certainly good that volunteers will be able to gain some first experience through professional practice in any local self-government or public enterprise, it is very good for all those finished students. And what the citizens say, I'm simply repeating what the citizens are asking, what I read as comments on social networks, in response to these laws, certainly we need to transfer the burden to the private sector because we know that 55% of the budget goes to wages and pensions. But what we're taking from the economy, we have to bring it back to the economy, not just take it without giving it back to them anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28875	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28876	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, I have reported on this amendment, of course the subject is very important in your statement, in response to my colleague, that the current state-of-the-art process in the state administration. You know, Mr. Minister, we've been listening to this story of observation, of analysis, of the state of affairs in local self-government for five, six years. When a law was passed on the maximum number of employees in the republican administration, local self-government here, we heard it was a previous measure, and after that it would go more seriously into reform of the state administration, as public spending in Serbia has become unsustainable. We've been talking about this for five, six years, Mr. Minister, and it's nothing. Why am I skeptical about the issue and your statements that they will enter the process of reforming the state administration very quickly, and why is this measure very problematic? You know, if you put the focus of your interest exclusively on the budget, and how to save funds, which is very important, and you don't see the whole, and the whole of it is government, local self-government and other institutions that are funded from the budget, then we have a big problem. We're all here against increasing public spending through public sector employment, that's not controversial, but what's problematic here. Which is the exact same way that all parts of that public sector are being watched here. Believe me, it would be a real courage to enter the process of reforming a state administration that implies rationalization and a clear view of where the surplus is, where there is no longer a large number of perpetrators that we now have and that these people, with adequate severance of gratitude, and where there is a need to increase the number of jobs, because jobs cannot be done to allow new people to engage through the establishment of a working relationship. You've only had a budget in your head here, and that's a serious problem. Believe me, Mr. Minister, that the state-of-the-art process in certain segments of the state administration is one process that can be resolved very easily and quickly. First, to respect the Civil Service Act, then clear systematization would be made for a very short period, within a month, it could determine how many performers are needed in individual jobs and who is excess, gentlemen, you can no longer work there. There can't be one chair, one table, and five chairs shoved out of the hallway and the people who came here, they just came in to receive salaries, and then they're doing party jobs outside those offices. As soon as possible to pass labour law in local self-government and the province administration. We're still applying the Labour Relations Act and state bodies. So when someone walks into local self-government without a court dispute, they can't get out of there, and we all know how to get in. Departmentation, rationalization, efficiency is something we need. I said that because I've been an MP here for a long time and I've listened to years of consideration, analysis and words – we're about to enter this process. I'm very skeptical you'll do it in 2015. I'm very skeptical. This takes a strong measure of courage. So far, there has been no courage when it comes to the state administration of any government, especially for the last five years. You guarantee us now that this will happen. Until that happens, and I'll see you in the next two years, you'll be creating major problems in all segments of the state administration, with this measure. You're exaggerating. A government body will at any moment address the demands of individual local self-government for employment. This is a bureaucratic measure that has no clear and large financial effect, and has not taken into account the real problems and real needs of the state administration, local self-government and standing segments financed from the public sector at all. In this regard, we think that nothing will be achieved with this and that it is necessary for you to enter into the reform of the state administration within a very short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28877	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28878	I assure you that we have already entered this reform very bravely and that there will be results, I hope far before 2015. So I hope that this measure, as we speak, will not need to last as such for two years on this amendment. As far as courage, harmfulness and responsibility are concerned, since we have discussed from these three topics, this law, or amendments and additions to the laws in this domain, taking into account the number of employees we currently have in the public sector and on the other hand the situation we have in the budget, that we have only looked at the situation we have in the budget and that we have seen it purely from that technical side, without thinking and without social responsibility, the right measure would not allow any exceptions, let alone the government's body that will decide. So we wanted to not mutilate. That's something my associates have also suggested, taught by the experience of previous governments where some of these things, where there were ways to change that. We cannot make a law that we do not plan to respect but a law that will be functional and that will enable us to solve the problem in a responsible way, and that is what we have entered into this reconstructed government, which is to solve the problems in a responsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28879	Replica, MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28880	I look forward to hearing Mr. Minister that the process concerning the reform of the state administration has begun. I would personally suggest that we manifest this will specifically. To discuss competitions for all assistant posts in all government ministries and to choose all assistants under the Law on State Officials at the competition. That means we respect existing laws. We are now awaiting the adoption of new laws. I believe they will arrive at the National Assembly very soon. In order to fully believe that we are entering the process of departementisation, it is necessary to apply the law that introduced the concept of separation. That's something I expect from you. When we said this, it is clear to everyone here in the National Assembly, to all MP groups, that the issue of the number of employees in the state administration has broken its limits. I don't think there's any parliamentary group that disagrees on that. But you're conserving the situation with this, and we've got a surplus. We need to get into the process to relieve public demand not in a way that we don't hire anymore. I guess it's clear to everyone that we shouldn't hire more than to see where the surplus is and that someone who doesn't do anything gets paid by the state in certain segments of the state administration. That's the essential thing. That's something to be expected. Of course, it's not just your job as finance minister that we understand, there's the Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development and other segments of the state administration and some other departments dealing with this problem. We must all agree and believe that it is clear to all of us here, that it has ended with further employment beyond the needs of certain segments of the state administration, but we must enter the process of rationalization, and rationalization is at the same time also a departmentalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28881	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28882	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, that I and the People's MPs, another in the series of amendments that point to inconsistencies when it comes to this law. Mr. Minister, when you want to avoid corruption, partition, then don't bring into the law arbitration, discretion and similar tools that allow one party, especially the biggest party, and the one who now has that session to decide which electricity wins, can decide who is to be employed and where to hire. When you say that you need to limit the number, you especially think about local self-government and that you will make decisions, and the Government for state authorities and public enterprises, then it's completely unclear to me. Have you completely missed the budget or will this discretion be achieved during its implementation? Because he says - the office for a quick answer increases salary funds by 23 million. So it's a 100% pay increase. The 986 million foreign ministry is contributing. You tell me, how do you think you limit local self-government employment and that you do it impartially, if you allow on the other hand to clearly state in positions on the budget that one party will be able to hire whoever they want? This is the first time in Serbia. Support Mr. Djelic's proposal. It's a system solution. Systemic solution where we'll see what's extra and solve problems properly, reduce costs, just increase them like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28883	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Just to announce the orderly, Bozidar Djelic and Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28884	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I agree with some proposals from MPs from other political parties who do not support this government, that when it comes to local self-government, it should be regulated by law. We're having a lot of trouble with local self-government about the number of employees. In terms of some decentralisation of authorities, the powers of the Republic of Serbia have been constantly transferred to local self-government and, accordingly, funding for these local self-governments, in accordance with its powers, should be provided for the systematicisation of jobs in accordance with new competences, i.e. entrusted transactions by the Republic. I can say it's been tried so far, at least in a legitimate way to get rid of it, but it hasn't come to life in practice, Mr. Minister. Now we have a variety of problems on these issues and chaos is in everything, not all of them, but in a large majority of local self-government, so when giving these consent, when some local self-government needs to increase the number of employees or to fill the new place, you should take care and what kind of budget inspection records are, when it comes to these local self-governments. Have these same local self-governments already wronged the law when issuing solutions to government officials, especially when it comes to various positions within the local self-government itself? Were the odds in determining the deployment and, of course, what's most important, I was thinking about that part to meet the expertise, one of the most important? Have these records, or measures proposed by the budgetary inspection, been carried out? You will have many situations that the budgetary inspector in the supervisory procedure has found irregularities, has ordered that the illegal assets be removed back into the budget of the unit of local self-government, but that this did not happen in life, in that true physical sense, means that this is adapted to one real situation. When making the law, and when determining employees in the bodies of local self-government and public enterprises, where they are founders, check these data before giving such consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28885	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28886	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We hear some big words here, responsibility, courage. It's all very commendable if it's supported by at least some acts, and I'm not talking about expertise. I'll talk about it. Is it courage that, according to our information, you want me to deny it if you have a different salary fund for the state this year 2013 when compared to 2012 it grows by 7%? What we see in the law that we're going to discuss next week, but these laws today need to make it possible, you predicted, although you said that wages will grow 1.5%, slightly less, because the increase in April and October is not quite so, that it will grow 3.2%. You said that because people are making progress. How are they doing? When we know that the other elements of this law, if you vote it, without our votes, you will forbid those who retire to retirement to be replaced. Some average in Serbia over the past years has been that somewhere between 2% and 3% of people leave each year, it seems that this year, or next year, more classes of people will be retired. Let's say it was 4%. And let's say that for example. People leave in a steady way to retire. That means you'll have an extra 2% in the salary table. Why don't you save it? This is not restrictive at all. I'll give you a few more examples. I'll give you a few more examples. When you talk about people coming to the right place. According to the transparency of the NGO, not to quote us but them, only 12% of the people who could have been put through the competition were set up that way. And on expertise and some strategy, you don't seem to know that the 2009 laws, which the DS parliamentary group, although we were then in the government, have improved to be systematic, are still in force. You have a fine for people who keep hiring, and you have a fine for local self-government to reduce the transfer. How are you gonna do that? How you punish them. One another. Who determines that? One more thing. You said in this law that it had to come into effect yesterday on the board, because otherwise people would hire each other very quickly, so it would be something to make fun of this law. Let me tell you something. From the moment you announced the measures in October of the month, even before, and how it lasts. The fact that you wrote that what was initiated from the moment of entry into force of this law would be reconsidered. This law, even before it came into effect, has already lost its fact. Serbia is living matter. People have a lot more experience than you and your crew, obviously. Not only are they hiring, and we see it in these numbers. It's about telling you another little truth. It may be a secret for you, and I know about the experienced MPs here and the people who know the opportunities in our country, you really think that people are waiting passively for that tax to come above 60,000 dinars. Well, of course they're not waiting. Well, of course, wherever they could have shared all those incomes and checks, so you won't be taxing them. Accept Mr. Minister at least one DS amendment. It'll be the one you said. You were our inspiration. We listened to you on "The Imprint of the Week", your first public appearance, and you said it wasn't normal for me to receive more than one salary as a minister. We are, because we were surprised that in the law you offer, you did not provide for it to be forbidden to receive five, six, seven salaries. You have an amendment. Have that elemental courage. Have that responsibility you're talking about. Here, tell us now that you will accept that amendment. Because if you don't accept, then you're not in a dispute with us. You're in a dispute not with the party that suggested you, but with yourself. If the finance minister is in conflict with himself, then what kind of government is he? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28887	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28888	I'm not in any kind of conflict with myself. The amendment will not be accepted precisely because it would mutilate the state administration at the moment. Not only the state administration, but the entire public sector, but we'll certainly, as we said by July 1st next year, bring it to order. As to why I'm not in conflict with myself. The answer to your question. Because I'm going to pay this money out of these other salaries in the budget at the end of the year. They're still on the bill. It would be a demagogy if it were legally possible at all, because it wasn't, if one of those boards of directors in which I was legally a finance minister in office, because someone else would just sit down and that money would definitely come out of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28889	Please don't throw it away, and please let's get back to the agenda, so we don't go past the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Djelic, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28890	Mr. Minister, you just said that by accepting the DS amendment that you can't accept any more wages will be maimed by Mr. Milun Trivunac. I don't mind that man, but he's got a Privatisation Agency advisor, so he's not an entrepreneur, it's said he's from the U.R.S., maybe he's not, I don't know, 120,000 dinars a month. It is further said that he is a member of the Management Board of the Energy Project – 80,000; member of the management board of the Yugoslav river shipbuilding – 50,000; member of the Supervisory Board "Tiger" Piroth – another 80,000; member of the SIEPA Management Board, where there is no compensation, and thus receives simply 330,000 dinars per month, three thousand euros without any employment on his part, without any entrepreneurial risk. At this session, you offer pensioners to increase the price of oil, oil, communals, medicines, and you will not accept the DS amendment that at least introduces these characters into order. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28891	Please, don't put the amendment on the agenda that's not on the agenda. You are now discussing your amendment that is not on the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28892	Thank you. Sometimes wiser words will be heard from people who speak calmly than those who shout. I recommend you listen to what Mr. Palalic told you. He's absolutely right, and I want to support him, and you'll understand for yourself that it's a cancer wound from the Serbian administration. As Palalic says, you really just hate the problem. God forbid you can solve it by July 1st next year, as you said, because the problem of the Serbian administration is a number, but even more is the problem of quality. Serbia cannot have any successful government, which solves citizens' problems if it does not have a good and effective administration. In order for the administration to be effective, you need to listen to what Mr. Palalic said and I join him a thousand percent, which is – to seriously cut red tape and reduce administration, and then to make a law that when you fire people who do nothing, that courts will not bring them back to work, and that you pay them some penals for it, but that you can hire real people who work, who have knowledge and who will get a good pay for their work. I'm against demagogy, to say that a man in the administration should have a low salary, because if such people work in the administration, they can never solve problems or businesses or citizens, because simply, incompetent people can't solve any problem. That's why there are fewer people in the administration with higher salaries. Why? You know, here, let Hope Mirkovic, who is a budget assistant, tell you how many people in your budget sector are actually working? She works day and night, but that's why she's got a bunch of colleagues who do nothing and then it all falls down to a small number of people who work here from enthusiasm and some professionalism. What I also want to say to you, maybe you heard it, maybe you didn't, because here for three months, it's the administration that unfortunately creates a lot of problems, because they call you October ones, and they're green. What's the big deal? When you're making the State Administration Act, don't let the Winters make that law, because they'll make it towards themselves. They are the ones who say: a minister will come, and then he will go, and we will stay, and everything will be the same. And Palalic is right to say -- those reforms are announced, announced and announced, if the prime minister does not support the finance minister in the reform, the finance minister has no chance of doing so. So, you need to cut the administration to an adequate number, and then you have to reward those people well. You know it's an absurd situation that you as a minister have a lower salary than the assistant minister, much lower, as well as the secretary of state. When Mr Djelic mentioned this Trivunc, I will say why this man who is not in any party has such a fee – because he would not work in the state at all and he was carrying half of the Ministry of Economy, because others who have to do nothing do, even though they have 60,000 dinars paid. Is it better for you to leave Ivan Simic as director of the IRS because there is a narcissistic practice that a man worth paying doesn't have to work for the state, or is it better to find a solution to keep a man? I'm sure there are thousands of incompetent people who will work for a three-fold lower salary than Simic and Trivunc, but they can't solve the problem of the state. I'm not gonna be a demagogue, like some of my other colleagues, and I'm gonna tell you what's really true. I'm glad that there are other parties here who simply see this real problem, they don't want to get in touch with people, etc. It's not just a problem of party employment, that's what you're going to learn. There's this problem "friends end femilis" that people are multiplying themselves, hiring their friends, family, and ministers have no idea who these people are. Find out only later, when you read in the paper, unfortunately. It's a key thing for you. You can't implement any ideas if you don't have the leverage you're carrying out, and that's a quality state administration. Reduce your drastic number, ask for support, you can't make a prime minister because he's against it, but at least Wolfie, you should do it and know, if you don't do it, you're doing this job that you're doing for free again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28893	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28894	Just to be very clear. I repeat once again that we've already started working on this, the government has begun to work, the whole government is behind all of these, both the bill and the amendment. As for what you've been saying, I would add just one more fact, I think that these salaries should be paid, in a way, by effect, and that we have to set some efficiency criteria, not only in public enterprises, where it's already defined by the Law, but in the public administration, in education and in health, in order to improve the overall quality of services, which this public sector, outside public enterprises, and in part in them, provides. After all, what you said, correction. I don't think this is what we're freezing the problem with. We're going to solve this problem. This problem is solved by the change of many laws – the Labour Act, the Law on civil servants, the introduction of a single system of coefficients in the public sector and many other changes that are essential and that is something we need until July 1st. What we can do, like that law, to which no parliamentary group has had amendments, to reduce fees to officials six months after the term of office to three months. What we can do quickly, we'll do it. I hope, effectively and here in the Assembly, as well as this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28895	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28896	I will agree with colleagues who have previously said that the number of employees in the state administration is disastrously large, large, compared to business activity, to the size of the state. In that number and in increasing that number, in recent years, innocents have gone, and I have said that when we talked about these laws in principle, but I cannot accept the finding of colleagues that this is just a preservation of problems. If a car has become more and more burdensome for years and has been going in the wrong direction, by increasing the number of employees in the state administration, by burdening all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this way, they are going into a break-in, you can't expect that, at one point, by a regulation, bold political decisions, the direction changes and at the same time goes backwards. He can't. It's not possible by any law or physics or anything. This isn't a canning, this is a stop. This is a process of stopping, of amortizing. Let's stop once at the end of 2015, and so far there's been an opportunity to figure out how many people are employed in the state administration, we didn't know. We didn't even know what their expert was up to. We didn't know what jobs they were working on. There were things that were against the law when people took severance from one to the next and walked through the state administration, because there was no record, there was no red light that would light up next to that name. This is a measure of stopping depreciation, not conservation, depreciation, so that at the end of 2015, and I believe before, and you have announced it, Mr. Minister, and I am grateful to you for reforming the state administration to come to a more efficient and better state. I believe in it, as I believe no procedure, anything that had such a dizziness in the wrong direction, can stand at once, but can be amortised. This is why such a legal proposal for SNS is acceptable, or such an amendment is indeed not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28897	As reported in order: Bojan Djuric, Djordje Stojsic, Bozidar Djelic, Jovan Palalic, the word has a folk MP Bojan Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28898	This discussion is developing interestingly. Mr. Baptizer, I don't understand why you're going to pay back those other fees you're receiving. If that job really works and you do it well, I don't think you should pay that money back, as I'm sure there are hundreds of those who don't do extra work well and won't pay back the money. So that can't be the solution. I agree you shouldn't, on that note, then it's not exactly that vomit in the budget as much as it comes through this revenue side. There's net, gross, fees, etc. All right, let's not go into that detail, we need to help these funds, too. Mr. Babic, I think you're deeply mistaken when, as a quality of what you're doing, you're presenting that as an axe law, you're going to stop me from using that word, stopping it, amortizing the state so far, and under the threat of punishment from, I don't know, two million dinars, preventing someone from breaking the law. You know, people who hire in the public sector, they come from the sphere of politics, mostly. The leaders were elected in the elections, set up by parties, it's nothing controversial. If we of these people are the only ones with dragon law and dragon penalties we can ensure they don't hire new personnel. Then we're in a huge problem, and we're not gonna solve it in two years. I agree with the minister. It's scary for me when someone has an ambition to sit on that board of PIO funds and receive a fee of 30,000 dinars or what a fee it is, and to take responsibility for it with five billion euros. How did we become such a society of low ambitions? That's the problem with our public administration and public enterprises. It's a prison where nothing has to be done and there's little money, that's what it's all about. For this little money, no one from "Diloita" or any other firm will come, so you have to ask him for arrangements to make more money, and it's always been done in this country, but there will be some who manage "Belgrade Airport" or the PIO Fund, and they are not sure or they can't even say a full name, or their only qualification as they may have been at that airport once and always after the party's quota. I'll tell you what I said two or three days ago. The damage from the director of Railways is not in his salary, but because it takes the place of someone who could do it better and who I'd advocate to receive 10, 15 or 20 times the salary of this current 2000-euro salary there or be rewarded with a bonus if it can seriously reduce the loss of that railway. It's a solution for this country, at least according to what the LDP has been trying to say and suggest for years. That's why I don't understand how you're going to go from this law to reforming the state, or public administration, by sitting down with you, the minister of justice and the state administration, and maybe some other people. If it remains the same extent of the state's jurisdiction, if the state is expected and in public from politicians to create the impression that the state has to do everything, that everything has to be determined, that it is mom and dad, as Mr. Shain says to Serbian citizens, you will not be able to reduce public administration. You may succeed in reducing the number of people by some percentage that you will fire, but then those who remain will not be able to do the job that is ahead of them, the citizens will be damaged, you will have even greater dissatisfaction. It can't be reformed by management, it hasn't reformed anything like that. Those countries that had huge costs of inefficient public enterprises, inefficient state administrations had previously made a political decision that the state no longer governs the owner of hundreds of enterprises, not to issue thousands of permits. What will you do when representatives of smaller, poor places in Serbia come to you and say – if you close parts of the municipal administration here now, the employment rate will be 50, 60, 70%? Your colleague Selakovic always has this problem when it comes to closing down some judicial unit or court. Then they say to him, "There is nothing left here but judgment, and if you close it, there will be nothing left." You cannot solve these demographic, deep political, social problems by mechanically reducing the number of public administration employees. You can't have 700 public and public-communal enterprises and a few hundred of these in restructuring and that you don't have this many employees in them. How will you assess how long it takes to be employed in Agrolive? It's a public sector, Mr. Krstic, no matter how incredible it sounds. I keep talking about this public sector that, in this case, through a company whose job is actually to be a monopolies in imports and the biggest gas sales player and minority partner in the construction of an epochal project "South Stream" that simultaneously produces and pâtés. By what standard will you and Mr Selakovic determine how many employees should be on that line for producing liver pâté? Do you know that you passed the law, how abnormal the situation in Serbia is? There is a basketball club called "Vojvodina-Srbigas". As far as I know, "Srbigas" is not a sponsor of the club, but is the owner of the club. Since he owns the club, according to this law, the club is a public administration, or public sector. When the new basketball season begins, will they be allowed to bring and hire a new player in that club according to this law? It's such a pointless public sector organization in this country, Mr. Krstic. That's why it's the wrong conservation. That's why this isn't a step in the right direction. It's not a good step to discuss this either, I have to tell you. It's really impossible to hear more about whether since 2008, 2004, 2000, since 1991, no, it's longer than that. The wrong system generated a situation like this. A dream of employment in the state administration, work in that place from 30, 35, 40 years old, and then leaving that place to a family member, or child, did not occur in 2000 or 1990. It's a deeply rooted mental matter. Now, of course there are differences. While the system was so functional by 1990, while some responsible people were still working there, until we went to the polls every little bit, so we had to compete in demagogy and populism, it sort of worked. When the 1990s fell apart, we couldn't solve the situation for 20 years. Only when the situation has been resolved in some way is the period since the beginning of 2001, until the end of 2003. All before and all after that was populism in the election campaign and then politicians who don't know what to do with those promises when they come to power. I can see that today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28899	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28900	Thank you. As regionalists, I really want to appeal to you for the initiative, and in terms of restrictions on public sector employment, regardless of whether the amendment comes from colleagues Palalic, Djelic, Đurić, etc. It doesn't matter who's from which party, I think we're going to make a serious problem in the functioning of local self-government if there's a body in Belgrade that's going to sit around and decide how many people are going to work. Whenever a problem is to be solved, a body is always created in Belgrade, so some registrar is now a real estate agent, now and employees, and there are always some new registers where some 1,000 people are going to work again in Belgrade, so we will eventually have a registry management agency and again some hundreds of thousands of people in Belgrade alone will be able to work out in public administration, and some small municipalities will now suffer. After a famous Milosevic solution to move all the property of local self-government to the Property Directorate, where it took months for you to come at all, to get any permission from any local government to sell, use some property, and as a bad relic of centralism, we will now have some body that will need to know how long it will take to decide whether someone will literally be in the basketball club or in "Er Serbia", after all, the stewardesses will have to get permission from that body whether they can be employed or not. I'm not questioning the idea. We all know that even after 2000 it was more important to have a party book than to have knowledge. Public administration needs to be reformed. There's a landscaping. For example, in France, you have to attend some schools to work in public administration, where people are still rewarded according to qualifications and pawnage, not to make an orderly. I once again appeal to you and to the ruling majority to consider for yourself how you want to handle it. It is not disputed, it is not disputed that there are too many employees, in Belgrade certainly 200,000 – 300,000 people working in the public sector, but don't all of Serbia and less local self-government suffer for it. I think the way you're going to solve this will lead to serious problems in the functioning of these local self-governments. The idea and desire to introduce order is certainly commendable. It's not a relic of this government, it's a relic of some past governments. We can discuss this, but consider some of these amendments one more time. I really think we're gonna have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28901	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28902	I think it's important in these difficult times to show an example. Now we hear some big words, that by who knows which way everything is inherited, this terrible train somehow takes time to stop. This esteemed House could be better placed in the eyes of our citizens and at this moment when you are about to vote the laws that require additional sacrifices and, as you say, belt tightening, and why did you hire 98 other people here in the National Assembly? Why? Is this how we're going to convince our citizens, first of all, I'm talking to the SNS because you're holding the levers here? This is not how we can convince our citizens that we are serious, and at least you. An additional 98 people have been employed in this congregation. In Nis there are 185 additional employees in the city administration. In every city in Serbia, it's the same story. The problem is, there's one thing that's said and another is done. I'm sorry we didn't even get the beginning of the answer, Mr. Minister, to very simple questions, which you as finance minister really must have answers to. I'm asking you for the second time, can you tell us how much of this year's salary fund is increasing at the level of the entire state compared to last year? Why didn't you count on next year's fact that if you can't replace someone who retires, space opens up, according to our estimate, of about 4% - 5%. These are concrete things. When we talk about the security that this will take place, your secretary of state was, you were prevented, it's okay, at a meeting when we proposed, and eventually this on the Finance Committee and adopted, to exempt from this university because everyone, except for regular professors and administrators, is at a certain time, and this law would completely disable the normal functioning of the state university. The Belgrade University Rector, not me, has a record, anyone who wants to check it out of our citizens, said that your Central Register is so good, that they realized that you wrote that instead of those dozens of people who work there, there are 300 of them because simply after the functioning of the university, a number of projects were located at the desk level and a number of teachers who are otherwise employed at other universities were given a certain contribution from it. Your system says that 280, according to the Belgrade University Rector, are employed. No wonder he hesitates so much in this government that any change can be made. Here's this package, delaying application in the tax reform of the electronic application. Who knows when then the IRS will control what this law should allow. And what needs to be applied to the Central Register is delayed, and we see that, in fact, this whole story and all this noise has nothing to do with it. You're not actually saving. How did you prepare this? You've only made it possible for people to speed up employment and you'll be pulling your own hair out in a few weeks, in a few months when you see what people have already prepared for you at various levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28903	Replica, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28904	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad that the subject is in motion. I have in my hand a decision on the employment of consultants for the professional and administrative affairs of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. It dates back to 22 September 2008. It has been signed by a colleague who is now a national MP from your parliamentary group, who defines the number and employees in the professional services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Is that what you do with the ash for the decisions you've made? On the other hand, consultants who worked for a certain time at the National Assembly under the Decision of the Administrative Committee before the start of this call from 23 July 2012, founded a working relationship on indefinite time and senior advisor, and adviser, and a junior advisor and reference officer. Did we of these people who started working here indefinitely in the last term drive home to bring some of our own, according to the old recipe and a harmonised recipe? No, we're not. They did well, they worked responsibly, and they made a lot of decisions indefinitely. On the other hand, do you mind two firefighters? Do you mind two plumbers? Do you mind two electricians? Do you mind if this building and the building in King Milan function normally? Do you mind a courier, a telephone technician, an e-mail expeditionor, a dactylograph, a cleaning lady? Do these people bother you maybe? On the other hand, you did not mind, and you will not mention this, according to the decision of the Administrative Board, four people who were members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors from the ranks of lawyers and professors from the Faculty of Law, whose compensation was at the height of the parliamentary allowance. (President: Time.) ) The decision of the Administrative Board of the previous term has changed this decision and the compensation has been increased to six average salaries in Serbia. So one man in the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary were replaced by six average people in Serbia. (President: Time.) That didn't bother you and that was good? Why were these people here? Because of the profession? When they were returned to 30,000, or to the level of the parliamentary supplement, what did they do? They resigned. What was the motive? Just finance and that's why don't you do it, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28905	I'm asking you, so I don't turn off the speakers, that you stick to the time that's scheduled. This was a replica almost three minutes ago. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28906	I want to answer these few questions for the public. As for the Fund, it increases 3.2% next year in this budget proposal. We'll discuss this in detail next week. Based on indexation is 1.5%, the rest is based on what's called a normal drift, so the promotions of certain officials, teachers, etc., past work and everything else. We, in the past, have viewed the budget here as a government commitment to pay certain things in the budget, i.e. appraisals are right. The fact that we adopt, if we adopt this law, it will mean that we may not achieve all of these appraisals, perhaps for the first time in history, we will have a budget deficit less than that envisaged, and it is projected less than this year. Furthermore, as regards freezing and employment, very small and for the first time, it was not done on the political line but on the Constitution and on autonomy and independence, as well as where no clear process of selecting or selecting certain persons was defined, such as this. University professors, or such as MPs, who are elected in the elections. A type control has been introduced in the National Assembly in bodies controlled by the National Assembly through the Legal-Administrative Committee, if that is its name. Finally, nothing is delayed, the Central Register is functioning and a combined payment will be applied and parallel to January 1st to ensure there is no delay in paying the salary. Let me confirm that, I'll just say that the University of Belgrade has 211 employees, 152 indefinitely, 31 on a certain, 27 on a contract and one on a replacement. It's just a university without individual colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28907	The word has Božidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28908	Thank you. I almost had one tear. It is heartwarming that the comforts of the ruling parties in this home had to be urgently employed by an electrician, and the electricity and all these things had been done before, should have been hired as soon as possible by some as if they hadn't been cleaned up and the congregation had functioned completely, and here is the law that won't allow for someone who needs to clean up the municipality in Bolvac. There's talk of someone not being able to get in the woods, near the Old Mountain near Pirot to do his job. So the message you have here is, if you're close to me, everything's gonna be okay, and I'm deciding, and if you're a little further away, well, that's not gonna work, that's gonna be our body in our government. It's very indicative of how you adopted the amendment of the board yesterday. We said, since the Ministry of Finance approves the budgets, financial plans should also be proposed eventually and that is what the law says, the body of the government who can possibly be excluded. But, no, Mr. Babic should be the one, for everything that is independent regulatory bodies for DRI, for RRA, for all those people that matter, yes, yes, for them, it will not be the responsibility of the Finance Committee, because there is the president here present, Mrs. Kovac. No, that's what Mr. Babic and this board he's running are going to ask, and then you'll see who can and who can't be hired in these sensitive services. It's the core of the way you want to run this thing. Mr. Minister, for the third time I'm asking you, there will be a parliamentary question later, you haven't answered me how much you've raised the salary fund this year compared to the previous one, and the university rector will have the opportunity to answer what you just said. Anyway, the right way to accept our amendment is to get people to pay one salary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28909	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28910	Dear citizens of Serbia, we have targeted the biggest problem in our society. According to DS, it's all plumbers, cleaners, hygienics. We've targeted that problem, and it's good. However, what Mr Djelic does not understand or does not want to understand, or misread, and I am grateful to Mr Krstic for accepting the amendment of the Committee, which is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is an independent body, an independent institution, that it cannot depend on the government and any body or body in the government. What is more surprising and what shows these multilayer and multiple currents in the DS is that – why is Mr Djelic a collective body such as the Administrative Board of the National Assembly, collectively, in which members who play an active role in the work and decision of the Administrative Board, and I thank these people, as well as other members of the Administrative Committee, why does he not trust them? What does a collective organ bring here individually? What can a member of that body bring individually? Why doesn't he trust his people who have delegated to the Administrative Board I wouldn't want to name these people individually, they didn't deserve such a thing, but on the other hand, what he also doesn't know, doesn't know or conceal – who determines and who gives consent to the systematization of jobs in independent regulatory bodies? The Finance Committee? Any other committees? No, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is a logic to retain the independence of independent regulatory bodies and the National Assembly and to give consent to the systematization and future increases in the number of jobs. It's not the property of Zoran Babic or anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28911	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28912	Let me just answer that. We've prepared an answer to that second question. We didn't take it with us because today is not a budget debate, but you'll get it next time. Let me explain exactly how, why and how it will not be done, but about that after. As for what you're asking for next year's question, which is the subject not today, but it's going to be 3.2% compared to 1.5 percent of what it is... I would just remind you that in the years when employment was banned in 2009 and 2010, salary growth was 1.7% – 1.8% per year. I think that explains the difference perfectly. We have adequately planned it, unlike before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28913	Enough with the replicas. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, according to the amendment. (Božidar Djelic, from the place: So they have an advantage. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28914	Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs, the debate is on the amendment tabled by the DSS parliamentary group to Article 1. You've seen Mr. Minister, although this bill and this measure we've been discussing has been aimed at solving financial and budgetary problems for so long, we are discussing the state administration. That's why I told you that this thing isn't just and it doesn't only touch the budget, it's about the whole problem we have here. Since there's been a debate about whether this is freezing, whether it's stopping the process, whether or not something else is still I think this is conserving the current state. What's the problem with that canning? The fact that we've all agreed here, all MP groups, is that the situation concerning the number of employees in the public administration is unsustainable. If we can preserve an unsustainable state, how did we solve the problem of public spending? We didn't save him. In the fact that we have a large number of government employees, local self-government, we stop these companies and the level of public spending is delayed. That's why Mr. Minister, we insisted that this matter be resolved by an emergency reform of the state administration in the next month, two. That's possible, Mr. Minister. It's very possible. First, to apply the Law on civil servants, to urgently pass employment laws in the local self - government and autonomous province. For years of professional service at the Ministry of State Administration, the needs of individual authorities of the State Administration are being analysed and it is known how many executives are required. By law on local self-government, you will allow local self-government to solve the problem. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, your message to the public to enter into a reform of the state administration that implies rationalization is a message to these people now who have founded a working relationship and no one can remove them or those who possibly planned until the reform is completed is the next one - you can get a job, but it takes a month, two, you will be out of work, because you are not needed for the functioning of the further state administration. You're hiring a party. You're coming here because we need to solve some problems. These people, anyway, and these, by 2015, whose status is frozen, will they be out of work if they're too much? I'd like to hear it from you. In the process of rationalization. They need to be told. So, Mr. Minister, this condition that you have proposed in this law is maintaining the level of public spending that has been so far, and it is unsustainable. And that's why we asked that instead of this situation the bitch you suggested urgently enter into rationalization by creating the effective and better state administration that the state needs, first because of its citizens and then because of investors who complain daily about the state of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28915	Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28916	Just to be very clear. I don't think it's possible in an adequate way to reform the state administration in two months. If we're talking about introducing a system of efficiency, if we're talking about changing all possible laws that we need to change in order to do this, if we're talking about introducing some equality and changing a system that involves currently 900 different coefficients, which have a life-long impact on citizens and employees in different parts of the public sector, I don't think it can be done within two months. But if you're already sure it can be done within two months then why are you asking me what that means and what would that mean? If I knew what that means and what that would mean, also if I had a budget made, before November 1st, a detailed database of employees by all different authorities with who's going to retire and what's going to mean, I could also plan exactly how much the pay fund is going to be. Unfortunately, we don't have that precision. We have to first, that's what I'm saying it's already started, we have a huge portion of 99% as regards employee registers, and a large part as regards registers of institutions that are parallel to creation. Even with that, I don't think two months is enough to implement it in a way that will be adequate. Let's just get some things straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28917	The word is made by MP Jovan Pavlovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28918	What's the deadline, Mr. Minister? What's the deadline? I'm talking about reforming the state administration for the past five, six years. I don't want to believe that anyone who's talked about it hasn't done anything within their resources, i.e. if at least the professional services at the level of the Assistant Secretary of State had not done certain statistics which the number of performers needed in certain segments in order for one ministry, one public undertaking, to function well, one other body of the State Administration. I want to believe that something has been done and that there is some information that would help you come up with a plan of rationalization in the state administration. If this has not been the case since 2007, when, in fact, according to the Assembly, the legislative process has ceased when it comes to the state administration, it is terrible. I'd like to hear from you if it hadn't been for the past five years nothing about it. As far as the legislative process is concerned, the law on working relations in local self-government and autonomous province is a very simple law that does not need to, even as far as I've heard, work in the form of a predicate because it's already been done in the ministries. He will solve major problems with surplus employees within local self-government and the application of the Law on civil servants. If we don't have that data, none of that data, then I agree with you that it's not possible within two months and that's terrible for the state. But if we start from scratch, I would ask you for the urgency of the problem to tell us what is the deadline within which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can go public, the National Assembly and says – we are entering the process of creating an effective state administration that implies rationalization, professionalisation and all that is needed to get a strong state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28919	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28920	We are already in the process and the deadline that I have set for these salaries and which stands in law is July 1st next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28921	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28922	Dear colleagues, I must agree that freezing or preserving, as a colleague has said, is not a popular measure and will not bring great success. Most likely at this point, the minister, or government, is forced to do something like that. Here, we have a case here that the minister is an outsider. So he's not a member of any party. Why don't we all try to help him and the government together to really pass laws that will allow Serbia to move forward? We, I think of the SNS, are fortunate that we have not been so involved in employment or in creating all these problems. Why? Because we weren't even in power in the previous period. With us here in Parliament, perhaps the biggest problem is this ex-post mind. All those who were in power until yesterday, when they were in power, had no sense, now suddenly they had their brains out, and now they know everything, and all the problems came about because they created them. Some of them here said, "Is there a cleaning lady?" It's not a problem in the cleaning lady, but the problem is in thousands and hundreds of cleaners who were able to clear all the till yesterday, from local level to the Republic, and to steal, collect all that money or money, as counterpart Canak says, and that there would be no need at all to freeze and hire and everything else. So I suggest you, let us come to our senses and really try an honest and honest work to get Serbia out of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28923	The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28924	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a solution proposed by the finance minister, which is trying to solve the problem of large expenditure on public sector wages. The solution he proposed was to freeze employment for two years in the public sector. This proposal has caused a great controversy, and here we are witnessing this controversy. It raises the issue of reform in general by public administration, from the certainty that serious rationalisation is required, up to this proposal made by the minister himself, which is a whole other topic, that is to lay down rules where profits in the public sector would be balanced and with a deadline for the job to be done by July 1st. I can say, from the experience of government monitoring after 2000 and here that these discussions are going in parliament, to achieve social dialogue, to translate it into Serbian, about public sector pay classes is simply an impossible mission. The goal that has been outlined with this solution and with this one, by half a year, will not be achieved. That'll take away the other consequences. Why and where did the minister make a mistake, opting for such a "an general" ban on public sector employment and hoping to solve the problem by mid-2014? Because it did not distinguish between administration in the most important sense and public sector employees, in health institutions, in education, in science, in culture. As you know, we as a Parliament club have launched an initiative to exclude some parts of the public sector, because the consequences in these sectors would be catastrophic, but what happened in the meantime is that through this amendment, some other exceptions that are pure administration, with the highest salaries in the public sector, are being drawn. It should be a reminder to the minister that at the beginning of the law he will be completely broken, that he will not achieve the goal and that we are wasting time here on one measure that is basically poorly set, if the Assembly is excluded, all independent bodies, audit agencies, securities agencies of value, here are listed a dozen purely administrative bodies. The second thing is that their role in the system is relatively independent of the legislative and executive authority, but these are the highest salaries and they are still being hired beyond measure. So the main thing was to be a strict distinction between administration and health, education, culture and science. Then we'd understand it's about saving, but there's really no excuse for that, for example. Further employment can be continued in the Assembly, regardless of whether the jobs are systematised. No one says that this employment beyond the systematization is happening, but really, if we want to save, we first here in parliament have to show it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28925	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28926	Thank you. Just to be very clear, Parliament, i.e. the legal-administrative committee of Parliament, has full control and decisions, i.e. giving consent to employment in these bodies. From the point of view of the division of power, it is not right for the government to give consent to parliament to hire. If you say that Parliament, I do not want to propose on some things that are bad, from some past times, it is indicated by the amendment of the Committee, and from that assembly we, as Government, have accepted this amendment, for the bodies that the Assembly chooses and who account for the Assembly. The assembly will also determine, through its bodies, the legal-administrative committee, whether or not to be employed in accordance with this law. I am sure that the National Assembly, as well as other institutions, will have a full understanding of the general situation in which we are and will behave restrictively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28927	Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 15 o'clock and 30 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament continue to work. The word has a folk MP, Ljiljana Lucic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28929	The chairman, since we had a little longer break, was supposed to start at half four, here is now four, to briefly remind myself, in my presentation I criticised this solution by thinking that the ban on public sector employment, so that it would make sense and have greater effects, to focus on administration in a narrow sense. I immediately commented, positively, on a part of the amendment submitted by the Committee on Finance, because it was the idea of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club to exclude from this ban higher education institutions and institutions from the field of research work, but criticised what some, purely administrative, so to speak, organisations have passed through this amendment and been exempt from the ban. It's kind of my attitude. The minister replied that it is very important in this amendment that the Assembly Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs is competent to monitor employment in these organisations, and above all I think that some state agencies that have sufficient staff should not be excluded have high salaries. That's when the minister distracted me, in fact, a little more carefully looking at that part of the amendment. And if you look at the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, the responsibility of the Board on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, you will see that he does not actually have any authority to give consent to employment in any independent body or state agency. Namely, the Administrative Board can deal with issues and address matters of the status and material position of MPs and officials elected by the Assembly. So it doesn't say that it can deal with the systematicisation of jobs in state agencies, or consider their reports, and it's really weird that this committee, for example, decides to hire, for example, the RRA. The RRA's financial report does not even send it to the Assembly, but is being discussed by the government. So, I think these are bad solutions and that control should stay where it matters, so in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28930	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to clear up some things, if we want to talk about who's in charge. First, the Rules of Procedure are lower than the law, so that something can be implemented under the law. Is the Rules of Procedure something that is definitely? The way he is and the way he's written, he's definitely not something that needs to have an end. Right now, through his application, we see that something's wrong. Now there was and it was a very large controversy, it was made public, about the exclusive state bodies, by the Commission of the Government to discuss it. Let's see what state organs are and see what their role is. The majority of these state bodies that are in this amendment to the Finance Committee are bodies set up by the National Assembly by law and selected by law. The National Assembly as a state body plays a role in legislation, we make laws like this now, but it also has one other role, which is a control role over all state bodies. Does anyone really think that the National Assembly itself, or just with the help of its congregation bodies, can perform such a control role? Well, he can't. That is why there are, for example, the State Audit Institution. The state audit institution plays a control role in spending budget money, in the first place whether it is in accordance with the law, secondly justification, the purpose of spending. Now look at what it would look like if a state auditor were to receive an expert associate, an adviser, however you like, in a working relationship and ask the authority that is subject to his audit for consent to the reception. I don't think that makes sense. The National Assembly, through various regulatory and independent bodies, performs its control function over the executive authority. That is why it was not logical for the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to decide on employment in these independent regulatory bodies. For most of these independent regulatory bodies, the competent committee of the Republika Srpska Assembly agrees on the financial plan. The competent Board on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs shall give consent to the systemisation plan, so that there is a legal basis for it to decide on the basis of this systemisation plan, whether someone should establish a working relationship, or not. I don't know what's weird about that. Whether someone in this congregation wants the Assembly to give up one of its original responsibilities, which is the control of the executive authority and to entrust the control of the executive authority only to the executive authority. This would be the result of such opposition when it comes to this amendment of the Finance Committee. We watched and kept an eye on each one of these state authorities not being influenced by the executive authority. Someone might like it, someone might not like it, maybe change something, maybe someone still lives in the illusion that they should order from the government of the Republic of Serbia what prosecutors should do, what judges should do, what judgments to make, and probably because of that they object why this goes to the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Furthermore, executive power, I can say, is a political form of political interest held through a vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But as parliament does not only have MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia, so do those working bodies that will give consent not only to MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to representatives and opposition and the former regime. Now I don't understand why so much resistance, especially since the work of the National Assembly is public, which every MP can attend to any committee and every journalist can attend any committee, instead of some things happening in Germany where no one can enter. If that's the problem, I'm sorry, gentlemen of the former regime, that we've broken down a very bad practice, and we've passed on that some matters being decided by the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution and the powers it has in accordance with that same Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28932	Mrs. Lucic, I can give you, not a replica, but by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28933	I thank the chairman. My colleague, I followed, I used six minutes and 36 seconds to talk about various topics even though he said in the first sentence - that according to the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs has no jurisdiction to deal with these issues, but that the law is stronger than the Rules of Procedure, I agree. Let's change the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28934	Bozidar Djelic, by amendment and I think it's time to finish this round.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28935	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen and honourable ministers. We've heard here again that the system is being very well arranged now, that it's time to be responsible, that you'll stop everything that needs to be stopped, but there's a serious problem. The problem is facts. Mr. Minister, before the break, I asked you three times how many salaries have increased so far in the 2013 budget, if I were to compare it to the 2012 budget? On three occasions, you refused to answer my question. During the break I am, here to quote you, I will give you these papers, since you said before - that you lost it in a suitcase or in a bag, and we will next week. Here, let me help you with the facts of your report. For 2013, November 22, 2013 and last October 19, 2012, so let's make it the first nine months if you want the previous government, August nothing much happens here. These are the numbers. Last year 169 billion this year, we're not talking about the plan, we're talking about the hard numbers behind which you stand as the elder of this ministry, 187.9 billion dinars. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this government has been telling us 12 months about saving. This government has been telling us for 12 months about responsibility, this government is telling us that the belt needs to be tightened, and in the first 12 months their authorities have increased the salary fund by 11.2% that's your numbers, and I'm now ready to present the report you wanted to hide. (National Ambassador Bozidar Djelic approaches Minister Lazar Krstic and gives him paper. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28936	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28937	Just for a minute, I didn't say I lost it, I just said it wasn't about today's discussion, it was about the budget discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28938	I think there's enough discussion and replicas now. We're moving on to the next amendment. The People's MPs Theodore Vlahovic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28939	I would like to thank you, Vice President, dear ministers, dear fellow Members of the People. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundžija and I, we tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budgetary System to the First Article and I would like to share the practical explanation of my amendment in two parts, given that it is two different things. One part of our amendment refers to salary and pension correction, and the other part refers to restrictions on employment. In the first part, the government proposed a linear increase in wages and pensions, regardless of size by 0.5% twice a year in April and October. My colleague, Hope, and I have suggested that we make a difference so that according to the size of the profits, that is, pensions to make a correction, so that simply the biggest adjustments have the lowest wages and pensions, i.e. those who have up to 25,000 dinars. Since we see that for minimum wages and pensions a correction of 0.5% once does not mean 100 dinars, it is one negligible correction and cannot speak at all about harmonisation, or the growth of the lowest wages and pensions. Given the standard of these citizens, we believe it is correct to divide to certain levels and to increase wages and pensions. We've divided it into several categories, with more than 60,000 as much as you've appreciated, meaning above the average of the Republic that there should be less correction, just because with pensions and wages as it is lower so that it's even greater correction. What we have received in response is that this would endanger fiscal consolidation and that exactly saving on the lowest and smallest salaries in the government's view would be the most relevant in this amendment to fiscal consolidation, and when the government's mandate started, the prime minister said that the savings would first start with the government and the state authorities, and not from the citizens. In line with this exposé, we expect our amendment to have corrections and savings with the government and state republican authorities, less with citizens, and less especially with those citizens who otherwise have the lowest incomes and whose existence is threatened. On the other hand, I have suggested that local authorities be excluded from restricting employment, for the simple reason that we consider this restriction to be introduced in several ways, so that one regulation no longer means anything. The existing rules should apply. In 2009, a law on limiting the number of employees in local self-government, according to the number of sizes, and several years ago, and for the following year it is planned that the mass of funds will grow by 2% for local authorities, while for the republican government there is no dispute, you yourself said, and we found in the budget that is 3.2%. There's a law on limiting profits, there's an inspection, a state auditor, there's a number of penalties, and for me the maximum punishment should be and it's already been introduced with past changes to this law, and that's the suspension of transfers for any mistake made by local authorities. It's simply not clear what it says and how and why these regulations are not respected and whether regulation can solve this problem. In our knowledge, many municipalities are highly disciplined and respect all these measures. They're like good electric and tax payers always in damages, because they won't pay the bills to write off debt and interest. I find it even stranger to say that the Regulation on coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries of appointed and appointed persons and employees in state authorities also paid by local self-government units has seen multiple increases in profits in local self-government. How local self-government could have increased, in this sense, when only the Government of the Republic of Serbia brought to the Regulation. Local administrations do not have the opportunity to adopt such regulations. Again, there's no logic. As we can see, the savings are directed at citizens, the savings are directed at local authorities, not the Republic, because the argument says – if we spared local administration from these measures, the aim of the proposed measures would be lost. So they're exclusively meant for saving. In view of all of this, another centralised body, which decides in one place, and the body is part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then we understand why there are greater opportunities for republican authorities, greater mass for earnings than others. It is precisely these bodies that will be decided first, and for some municipalities no agreement will be given in two years, how long this ban will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28940	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28941	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Law on the budgetary system of 6 and 7. Please, Mr. Chairman, allow me to speak in a normal atmosphere. I was punished the other day because I had some suggestion for the minister, so I got a ticket. My amendment concerns two positions of Article 1. One view refers to the need for the number of permanent staff in budget-funded organisations to be cut off from 31.12.2010, because under the Law on the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, it was the deadline for them to comply with the systematisation and all other obligations. I mean, I didn't propose for the grandmother or the uncles or the former or the new regime, but to respect the existing law. I have also submitted an amendment to the second position of this member, which is that cultural institutions are exempt from the obligation to, on different grounds, by other grounds, that it is not permanent employment, or on the basis of a contract to hire up to 10% of permanent employees. In response, the government says that this amendment of mine cannot be accepted for reasons, what is related to the alignment with the total number of employees by 31.10 cannot be applied, because in the meantime there have been some changes at the ministry and then because we changed the ministries we will punish those who respected the law and reward those who broke the law. There have already been many words on this subject, and many MPs have spoken of it. Now I'd like to talk about this second attitude regarding the institution of culture. The government has not given any explanation to this view. Very elegant, since this first attitude is unacceptable, then the entire amendment is not accepted. Simply, from the technology that we know, as the amendments are written, one MP can only submit one amendment to one member. If we had been in a good mood, we could have made an agreement, as before, so that the technical correction of the amendment was done, that the parent board proposed a member, but there was no will and there was no willingness to exempt the culture from this obligation, and that is the possibility of hiring more than 10% of the number of permanent employees. Since I don't have much time, I don't know if it's worth talking about at all, because I tried to explain the amendments to give some dramatic examples. How the Star Theatre, with 1.9% hired, has 19 employees, will have no permanent ensemble, to make repertoire. I guess Dusko Kovacevic will play one drama all year, and only the black Branko Cube will play with 1.1%. Now let me give another example, which will serve me for a broader picture when it comes to Serbia. How the Cultural Centre of Belgrade and Dom Omladine will be 4.4%, i.e. 5.6% of the total number that can be employed by contracts to realise hundreds of programmes, concerts, exhibitions, stands, promotions, film projections. I cite these examples because in Serbia of all the institutions of culture are the most of these institutions – homes of culture, homes of youth, etc. polyvalent cultural centers. They are 51% of the total number of cultural institutions. What are they doing? They organize the same programs, have dozens of exhibitions, promotions, literary evenings, etc. I say Minister the day before yesterday – they piled up those hired by contract. He probably meant those homes of culture, those centers of culture. Now we're going to bring them down nicely to one, two programs a year and what's the difference, and that's enough. So there's no need to build up these powerful programs and these huge contracts, because for each of these programs, cultural institutions had to sign a contract. You know what, I don't know if it makes any sense to talk about what's contrary to the nature of cultural activity itself when it seems to me that this power is increasingly manifesting not only by misunderstanding, but by a kind of mistrust, a kind of misrepresentation of culture. In the early 1990s there were major demonstrations of the opposition on the streets of Belgrade. Ambassador Zoran Djindjic, and parliament worked normally, only then in King Milan, then warned the ruling coalition, which was in some similar composition as today, that they could not be so indifferent, that they would stop the work of theatres, museums, galleries. On that note, there was a laugh from the O.R., I would say a mockery, in terms of who it is, who cares. Today they won't stop working cultural institutions because someone will demonstrate and protest. They will stop working because these measures will put the government at risk, and whoever has a little more hearing will still hear the echo of that '90s laugh and mockery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28942	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28943	You are well aware that this budget, for the first time in a long time, has recognized and increased the amount of the culture budget, as a share in the gross social product, even in these difficult times. That's not enough, but it's a step in the right direction. You didn't mention that. Culture is one of the few that ever got an increase, especially the increase in the total share. On the other hand, we talked, no matter what you call non-collegiation, outside the session itself, and then you mentioned to me a number of cultural employees. May I ask you – how many employees are in culture? I know how many there are, but you mentioned to me, if I may say, six thousand cultural employees, about six thousand. Seventeen thousand is the exact number. I'm not going through institutions. I've already talked to the Minister of Culture. Our intention is not to limit it. We recognize that different institutions function in different ways. That's why there's this mechanism to approve once on this government body, any theatre, any other theater, it will, of course, go to the culture ministry's proposal. p We will be very reasonable to approve that they do not have to be subject to a 10% limit, but it is essential that we go through the system and that we know what we are talking about and that the Ministry of Culture, like everyone else, including the National Assembly, be informed about how many people there are actually, so that we can talk about it, whether it is moderate or not, because I think that at some lower level of institutions, maybe at a local level, someone else, there are more people than you thought. I don't dispute whether there's so much to do or not, we'll determine it over time, but it doesn't see why we should exclude exactly culture. We will, of course, have an understanding of culture and culture is essential. We've shown that in many other segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28944	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28945	Mr. Minister, I usually listen these days to you and the Finance Committee, and here you are now, saying that all these measures, by mentioning the budget, should help culture. I don't know, you're a young man, did you have Kocic's "Jazek in front of the Court" lecturer's elementary school? Says David Strbac, who came to that court – oh, we are very pleased, pressed us well from all sides, from some kind of mightiness we have died, so we can hardly breathe. You say now – it's all good for culture. First of all, as far as the number of employees, Mr. Minister, you told me you had information on 6,800. I'm an MP for the opposition, I've never worked in the ministry, I've never worked in the government, I've never had that obligation to know exactly and I don't know where we got that information from 17,000 employees. All I see is that you, in agreement with the Minister of Culture, have just decided to control everything in Serbia's culture. I have nothing to do with it, nor am I content to have precise records, since you can see that my assumptions differ, I know that there are 2,600 republican institutions, if they are not increased in the National Theatre, that there are around 1,200 in Belgrade. Based on these figures, I came to some conclusion, and you had some information. What is devastating is that you are in fact introducing a kind of surveillance and control and empowering some organs and ministers to be the one to decide how many, when and who will be released. You said yourself, let me say, selectively. This means – by some standard of choice, by God's grace or by the grace of the minister. All in all, if you find another example for me in Europe and the world to carry out these measures, then I'll be for you to be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28946	The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28947	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words about this amendment, about employees who have been admitted for a certain period of time in cultural institutions and in public information institutions. As I said on the Finance Committee, in these institutions, especially in national minorities, these people who were admitted for a certain time, with some work contracts and with various contracts, make up about 50% of the staff, maybe more. I put it here yesterday, in Radio Subotica, there are about 50% of the employees with these work contracts. It is positive that the government has accepted an amendment that has improved the situation of the bill, with a positive assessment of the ministry and with the agreement of the ministry, people above 10% can be accepted. So the question here is, how long is this gonna take? Is it going to be a month, as Mr. Minister said, if I understood correctly, or maybe it will take months, and then people who work in these areas will never be able to get a job? This is about not only institutions of the culture of national minorities, but all theaters throughout the country. I would still show our concern about the employment of young and talented people who are about to graduate from college. I know it is against the constitution to make discrimination in employment, but the question is, what will happen to young people, will they start leaving our country, go to countries in the EU, work there and make their dreams come true? Why did we educate our people, doctors, to work there in Germany or in any other country and to spend a lifetime there? I hope Mr. Minister has some solution about these young people, as he said, that we will now reroute young, talented and educated people to the private sector. But I don't think that's enough to keep them in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28948	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28949	As for employees, where more than the percentage defined by this 10% law is needed, that will be determined once. In this regulation, we will define exactly how it works, or what exactly is the procedure for granting exceptions, we will clearly put a time limit of a month. This is a body that will not be a body that paralyzes employment, will not be a body that will determine or will at all have insight into who will be employed at a certain function, but is a body that needs to establish the principle of whether or not we really need a job, and in the context of a large increase in the number of employees we have had, and as some bridge until the moment we implement the reform of the public administration that we started. As for hiring young people into traineeships as such, depending on what we're actually talking about, I don't see that there should be any problems in this principle, if that was a fundamental question. I think it's a much wider story about how we're going to attract young people. I don't think we're going to attract young and quality to these... At the end of the line, what we've been talking about since the beginning, if someone is young and quality and is offered several thousand euros as an initial salary somewhere abroad, where it may have ended, we offer in the public sector a salary that is equal to 40 years, apart from past work, it won't work. I hope that what we're doing, we're doing in order to have both a more quality and a more zealous and more rationalized administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28950	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am once again surprised, 17,000 employees of cultural institutions, if I have heard correctly. To that number of employees, this must be a very cultural country. What I'm interested in is how is it that in one culture institution that does the same work, say, there are no employees in the theater or very few, and in another, there are hundreds of employees? What I want to ask is, does anyone know how many of the 17,000 belong to artists, or artistic ensembles? How many employees are in the work, and how many are glued to various characters, as our people say, how many of those who are following the works in cultural institutions, so those who are not directly involved in culture, but are only following a part in cultural ensembles, i.e. people who are employed in various ways, by props, assistant assistants, secretaries, cashier cashiers, cashiers, deputy cashiers, etc.? What I'm interested in is how many people really work in culture, how many are cultural workers, and how many are people who are just being dumped during the previous regime? We're listening to this party now mostly about how we're gonna spend money. I haven't heard a single suggestion about how they think we make money, get out of that earned piece, and get out for the part that's intended for culture. It's mostly said here that we're going to spend money that we haven't earned in 2014 and the question is whether or not we're going to make it with a surplus like this, with 17,000 in culture, with 740,000 in the public sector, with local self-government, with various reperessions and touch systems. I don't think we'll survive if we continue to argue in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28952	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28953	Dear Minister, you are talking here about the profits of young people, the prospective people of thousands of euros -- two, three, four thousand euros. We here need to deal with young people, more specifically the part of young people under 30, 50% of young people under 30 are unemployed and they do not dream of making several thousand euros in foreign companies. They dream of an average salary in Serbia of 43,000 euros. We have to deal with them, because these are the people who are going to carry this country and who are going to develop and raise this country in the coming period. I am not worried about that part of the young population that will receive offers in foreign banks, because it is 0.5% of the total number of these young people, unemployed, who will work in foreign banks, insurance companies, for two, three, four thousand euros. Let me see how we can solve the largest number of young people under the age of 30 who live off their grandparents' pensions or some kind of social aid. It's a problem that doesn't solve this law or the measures you've proposed. And let us not deal with that part of those who will work in two, three, thousands of euros. I don't care about them. I take care of these under 30 people living with their parents, waiting for pensions, and they have nowhere to find a job. They need us to deal with them and not bring the whole story down to those young people who will work in foreign banks, but let us deal with those who need to work in this country and who do not dream of going to another country, but just want to work in their own country, live from their work and start a family.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28954	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28955	Thank you. It's what we do. I answered a specific question. By taking over here, we're actually dealing with them. And the Labour Act, which we want to change, and all the other sets of laws and this reform of the state administration, where we're going to introduce that those best teachers and best teachers will actually advance in the service and where these young people you're talking about will have an even greater chance of finding employment, either in the state sector, or in the private sector. So that's exactly what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28956	The People's Messenger Gorica Mojovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28957	Mr. Minister, you've been talking for a little while about the fact that there's been too much employment, and probably culture. I have to draw attention to the law that we have repeatedly spoken about, regarding the maximum number of employees in local self-government, that the largest number of local self-governments, precisely respecting this law, have fired the largest number of cultural people. When I came to the Belgrade City Assembly in 2001, I found 1,600 employees in Belgrade's culture. Then there were 29 institutions. Today, there are 36 and less than 1,200 employees. According to the Law of Culture, and we were hoping it would be the definition of this country, including these authorities, the largest number of people will be engaged by contracts. And let me tell you, I really don't know where you got that 17 grand data from, but it's not your problem, it's not our problem, it's not those people in the culture who get paid for 15, 20, 25 grand, do you know how many champions of one of the biggest theatres in Belgrade -- 65,000, bigger problems are public enterprises. Stop this trend, I'd say this megatrend of hiring advisors and advisors by ministries, by various agencies, by various public services, etc. You don't have a problem with culture. The way you speak and treat culture, we heard a little before and from the previous debater, because in some way we underestimate it, we give the people a reason to say – well, let these people out of culture, they just want some money, they just complain, they're always unsatisfactory, they don't do anything. I haven't heard a single representative of the government say that at least as a phrase – we are proud of our success in culture and sports, as they always say. We have reason, we have success, but it seems we no longer have any pride, at least in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28958	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovana Joksimovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic and Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28959	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party wants to prevent the damage that will surely arise and reflect on the lives of citizens living in all local self-governments. Because of its unprofessional or irresponsible work, the ministry will reject legitimate requirements for the reception of new workers. The Democratic Party of this amendment wants the possibility of judicial protection of the applicant's rights to challenge a negative solution in order to prevent self-will and the possibility of corruption, on the other hand, to ensure the professional work of these institutions. We also demand that the situation in which a legitimate request for the reception of new workers is rejected, and therefore negative consequences arise, the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the damage caused. If no agreement is given to the reception of new workers in local self-governments, for example, there are no more perpetrators who, under the applicable regulations, can conduct administrative procedures or procedures for issuing building permits, local self-government will also suffer damage. It is necessary to establish that this type of damage cannot be the responsibility of local self-government representatives. Unfortunately, the question is, can all the damage be corrected? A colleague asked a key question a few days ago that we did not get an answer from you – what happens when a teacher goes to a primary school for pregnancy or maternity leave? In this sense, students probably come to school and sit in empty classrooms without teaching while the ministry begs to respond negatively to this claim. There is, unfortunately, damage that cannot be replaced by the government of the Republic of Serbia if it takes responsibility. For all of this to happen, it is of paramount importance to set a deadline for the ministry's reply. The inefficient work of these institutions could completely stop public services in cases where the reception of new workers is necessary. Mr. Minister, what happens when the reception of a new surgeon instead of a deceased worker couldn't have been filed on time, and we need to save lives or are we in a situation where we can't hire a fireman who daily risks lives saving the lives of citizens? That, Minister, is the question I'm afraid I won't get answers to. I would ask you to reconsider this amendment of ours and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28960	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Lazic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bojan Djuric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28961	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable MPs, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, proposed this amendment to the LDP that the ban on public sector employment should not be valid for two years, but only for a year and that the ban should be completed exclusively in 2014. I think, Minister, we agreed here today that we have a massive administration in this country. You, today and in principle, said you were planning to start reforming the state administration by June next year. If all of this is respected, then I really don't think there's any reason for a ban like this to be for two years. The amendment was rejected by the government with reasons to save 0.15% of GDP in 2014 and 0.25% in 2015. We think it's primarily a bad message for young people, for students in this country. It means that in the next two years they will not have the opportunity to work in the public sector. The fact that the government in exceptional cases will have the right to agree on the following -- it will be very slow, Minister. I received an answer from the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government to my parliamentary question, it was sent from the cabinet of ministers on November 26th, and came to parliament on December 4th. So one letter in Belgrade traveled for eight days. Now, when it would take some local self-government to make a request to the government, it would certainly take 10 days. Ten days will travel and answer. So, for a minimum month and a half, it's up to the government to give consent to some people's reception. I don't want to talk about it, think about it, and I really think it might be that some local self-governments, for example, will get consent by party principle, and some unfortunately won't. If the government is ready to make reforms, then it is clear that it is enough for a year. We therefore believe that in 2016 it is necessary to enable the reception of workers. Is this reform that you provide for ministers, this bill and these other measures of yours, they actually apply to employees, for example? in education, I don't know how much you know, and I guess if you don't know, you'll be introduced to the Minister of Education for the fact that many educational workers in this country will work with a 30.40% standard. It's not because they can't have a full standard of class, it's because in the past few years, party employment has been employed. That's what I'm telling you right now, because I have data, for example. from the city of Negotina where I come from. At the workplace of a physical teacher who teaches physically, three by 30% of the working time was employed. How is this law going to apply in the following year? So, August of next year, i.e. For September, will there be one professor left, or will we still have three professors in one workplace? I really think it's bad for the state for party employment. When we say that a reform of the education system is needed and when we look at the results of the student testing, then it is clear that we, above all, have a poor education system, poor curricula and programmes, which I can't, of course, for teaching plans and programmes to be responsible students. We have a good teacher's staff, and we have a teacher's staff, or a teacher's staff, who doesn't meet the conditions to work in these jobs. You practically, this bill leaves the possibility for all those who worked until today, or until yesterday, to stay in those jobs. I don't think that we're going to achieve what you actually want means better and better and more efficient and local administration and state administration and better quality education. A few minutes ago, the question of cultural institutions was raised here, and you said that there are 17,000 employees working in cultural institutions. I guess that's summed up with all those cultural institutions that are on the local level. That's where the real question is, I'll probably have a different opinion than the fellow MPs who discussed it. It is clear that in the museum, libraries, some staff should work, but in many local self - administrations, in these cultural centres or in cultural homes, you have employees of a party, by some friendship or some other basis of people who absolutely do not meet the conditions to work in such institutions. Then such institutions, culture homes instead of dealing with what is related to culture, for example, are involved in the organisation of a concert in the square, of course these concerts that cost tens of thousands of euros are paid from local budgets and thus we have expenses in this crisis, and we have nothing from culture. The law that existed today, on the maximum number of employees in local self-government, had to be applied and most local self-government did not respect it. You know that very well. When the register of employees on the Ministry of Finance site, which was published, I think the latest data was from July of the month and the instructions the ministry gave to local self-government for the next year, it is clear that there are extra employees in the local self-government, so in Negotina 60, in Zajecar more than 100. Over the past month, there has been a mass admission of workers. You have announced these measures, and in Zajecar several people have already been employed in the city administration in the past seven or ten days. You can now announce the law like this, you can have the best intentions, but when that law is implemented in practice, you won't have this savings you're planning. The law prescribed fines from 500,000 to 2 million dinars for a legal person and from 30,000 to 2 million for a responsible person. What does the museum in Negotin now have to do with the director receiving workers past the government's consent? The fine that the institution will pay will go to the republican budget, and the fine that the director of 30,000 dinars will pay, believe me, he will pay if he decides to hire people. The punishment was supposed to be bigger for a responsible person if you wanted this law to be applied in practice. I'm absolutely certain, and you'll see in one six months that this law will not be implemented. One of these reasons is that this punishment is intended for a responsible person very low. On the other hand, those penalties paid by legal persons in local self-government will be transferred to the republican budget. I want to take this opportunity to tell you one thing. I don't know if you know there's a big problem with making municipal decisions on local taxes because the college of two laws, the Law on the financing of local self-government, is a member of the 15a that calls for the Accounting Act. Share legal persons, small, medium and large in accordance with the accounting and audit law that once existed. May or June is the new accounting law. There in Article 6, enterprises are divided into micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. No unit of local self-government can currently decide on local municipal taxes that are the source of budget revenue. This time I ask you to refer to the Assembly as soon as possible to amend the law on the financing of local self-government and that of Article 15a, in order to allow local self-governments to make decisions on local municipal taxes by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28962	Just to find out that your entire discussion was past the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Dejan Mihajlov and Aleksandar Pejcic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28963	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, with this amendment, we have proposed that the Government be the one to give consent to the proposal of the ministries, or other employment bodies, rather than the government's body. This bill does not stand for any body, nor how it will be formed, nor how it will make decisions, nor by what parameters it makes decisions. We agree and welcome, at a meeting that we had with you until you had this position we suggested that the number of employment be limited in the state administration. Not just in the state administration, but in the entire administration. That's one measure that's necessary. The state budget needs to be protected from excessive costs. This year, the cost of earnings increased seven billion compared to last year. This applies to all the army that is employed during this year, which will be a serious burden for the Republic of Serbia's budget next year. It is seven billion, out of those seven billion, it may have been more useful to give to the most vulnerable categories of the population that will be threatened and affected by one of the next points of this agenda, which is an increase in VAT, for basic life supplies. Therefore, as a party, we believe that it may have been necessary to see and resort to some solutions in the organisation of a state administration that had been applied earlier. In 2006, the largest rationalisation in the state administration was carried out. With the help of loans and donations from the World Bank, rationalization was carried out. The number of employees was reduced by 10% in all authorities of the state administration and then the state administration was brought to some extent where there was one number of more employees, but the number of employees was reduced and that was the minimum number of employees since 2000, so far. After that, employment began to take place beyond measure. What was formed at that time was the staff management service. It was a state administration body within the government of the Republic of Serbia that engaged in employment and held competitions, held competitions, where an internal labour market was created, an internal labour market within the framework of state authorities that was to encourage and encourage greater flexibility and greater labour flow within different state authorities in order to avoid further employment in the state administration. As far as I know, it almost doesn't work. The staff management service is being bypassed, and the highest number of employees in the state administration has been employed past the competition. That's what the problem is. I don't know how you'll manage to control what's been done in recent years. Is there any possibility of any kind of control? It was these young people, whom you spoke of as quality young people, who may be seeking first employment in a state body, and so there were a number of programs in the government that would be stimulating for young people who might come and find their first job in a state body, because as a young man, you know, and it was motive for you to come and be a finance minister when you were 29 years old, which is commendable. So for these young people after college is a certain kind of stimulation to work in a certain state body at the Ministry of Finance, at the Ministry of Justice, another ministry in the General Secretariat of the Government itself or the General Secretariat of the Assembly as a stepping stone in a career as a rich experience. I don't see a mechanism in which you're going to stimulate the employment of exactly these people that we need most, many young people, not just those with college, there are a large number of high school officials and other educated structures, in which the selection and preparation will be carried out for their work in state authorities. How will selection and preparation be carried out for their work in state authorities, how will a party charge of state administration and public enterprises be carried out, and how will you enable the employment of young people in Serbia to be done in a way that is best employed? No answer and no solution have you given us this decision that any body within the Government, which will again be made up of ministerial assistants who, by a party key, will approve of a particular body to increase the number of employees, will be something that is not acceptable. We want concrete mechanisms. May the government be the one to take responsibility for any employment in Serbia, not to transfer it to some inter-departmental body that will again meet party needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28964	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28965	The proposal for my amendment is that part of Article 1 that reads - exclusively from the position of the 34th member, working relationship with new persons can be based with the consent of the government's body, on a proposal from the competent ministry, or another competent authority, with a previously obtained opinion from the ministry. The government's act will closeer regulate the procedure for obtaining the consent of the 35th member's position, erases for at least three good reasons. He's the first one because he's inconclusive. In the RS budget, the proposal already sent to the National Assembly said 274,000 people are funded from the budget. If we add 28,000 more people who are in local self-government and about 20,000 other people who are PIO, RZO, agencies, etc., we reach between 330 and 350,000 people who are either fully funded from the budget, this is the number that we can all find on page 210 in the draft budget or to the total estimated number. What is the government's body and whose proposal will it make decisions on? Do we understand what this member is? Do we understand that he's made up because he can't stop party employment? Do we know that party employment, and I don't mean one party present now as a government or opposition, I mean all parties, that party employment or family employment is done on principle – give it to me, it's mine, I saw it first? This attitude will essentially not be applied. That's another reason why you don't need to wake up. This stance should help political parties who are now in power to remove responsibility and pressure from people who have already been appointed to continue. I would, but I can't, it says a member of the law. The third reason is that this is inconclusive because of the criteria that it is impossible to make any government body within a reasonable period of time so that uninjured people living in Serbia, all of us, know at the same time whether a new person in the House of Health in Kursumlia needs a new person in a high school of any kind or high school in Valjevo and whether a new person needs a new face in a Zrenjanin police station, that I do not order further. $120,000, 140,000, military, police, judiciary, prosecution, etc. This is a political folklore and I have a lot of understanding for all the political folklore that we listen to from time to time more prone to one and from time to time more prone to another, but the problem is that this political folklore is no use to us, and the damage is common to us. It's the same political folklore when we easily bid numbers in the public sector without knowing what the public sector is, from 350,000 to 770,000 people. It is the same political folklore that we are talking about everything in public enterprises is a personal card, which is not a personal card and whether employees of public enterprises whose subsidies remain in the budget are considered new persons or are not considered new persons. Someone's gonna get a grant, and they're gonna get a grant. He doesn't care if there's going to be a job. Will this body also have jurisdiction over public enterprises that are subject to subsidies? It's also political folklore when it's auctioned with the overall state of the budget, so we're in front of bankruptcy on Monday and we're no longer, whatever the budget is, and that's all the ease of political folklore. Somewhere in more serious situations and where there is a dialogue is very carefully chosen public words and is not all about political folklore. I ask the Minister for many reasons to give up the political folklore of this species and that the reform of the state administration is based on the laws that were passed in 2009, on the reform that began and that we are talking in the dialogue about the figures that are verifiable regardless of whether the figures are employed or the figures in money. They're all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28966	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28967	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a little attention, Mr. Krstic, sit and listen to the MPs, some of my colleagues are actively taking part in the debate, and we others have left room for them because we have done so before. With all our differences, they are really great in political terms, on this subject there is absolute consensus expressed through the skepticism that the measure you propose is effective and that it is an answer to something itself is not controversial, and that is the ineffectiveness of our administration and overnumerity. We must first, Mr. Cross, ask a very fair question. If our administration is so bad, let us immediately define the criteria that will make it better, instead of the criteria that leave it as it is, and prevent someone else bad from joining that administration or good for that administration to spoil it. Let us say that we have reached the end, as you have said in some other topics, and that from tomorrow, no one in the public sector has a job unless they meet certain criteria, so we will no longer have inextricable people in public places, from local self-government to public enterprises and all those sectors where these people appear as a problem at the moment. Have we ever found out how much damage we're going to suffer because we're going to save less than 1% of GDP this year in the first year, but continue to pay all those who've done so much damage that we don't know how we're going to deal with it today? Secondly, this is indeed a punishment with great consequences for those who deserve at least such a thing, for young people who are looking for first work, who are highly educated and who are yesterday, I think it is not your position, but at the session of one Assembly committee, the Committee on Education, humiliated by the finding, not the minister of education, he was not there, which in himself says, but one of his assistants, who is as a comment on the position of our MP that leaving young people from the country can be the only consequence of inability to get a job here, he found out and it's not bad, because he's going to send money to Serbia. With this we need to cross-reference and right now to get an answer to that question – why is it so difficult to offer a firmer and more serious argument than the one we listen to? We're not saving anything, we're just spending less on those who don't deserve a single penny, because they're unprofessional, they're incompetent, they're irresponsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28968	Mr. Jovanovic, your group's time has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28969	I will finish and ask you, Mr. Vice President, to listen with a little more attention next time to the LDP MPs. (President: I listen well to the messengers. No, you don't listen to them either... You don't respect the parliamentary party and you don't respect those whose interests we represent here. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28970	Mr. Jovanovic, you have no reason to lie to me. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28971	I do because as a representative of the ruling coalition, you are someone who will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28972	Mr. Jovanovic, I give you a warning. You may be dissatisfied with the way I lead, this Assembly, but you have no right to flaunt me. I just had an observation that your MP spent all his time out of the agenda and that's all I've ever realized. You might like it or not, it's your right. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28973	Mr. Chairman, you've injured Article 27. Rules of Procedure. This isn't about whether I like something, as president of the parliamentary group, or whether I don't like it. It is about mutual relationships that need to rest on respect and ability, among other things, to be responsible for work. You didn't understand LDP... (President: Mr. Jovanovic, I ask you to explain. )......................................................................................................... So you hid your incomprehension by finding that she did not say what the subject of her amendment was. That's not true. [[Disabled microphone.]] It would be better if you apologize to Ambassador Gerov...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28974	Mr. Jovanovic, you haven't used the right to violate the Rules of Procedure, you've already had a controversy with me. Please take care of the Rules of Procedure and stick to it. You signed up again. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28975	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vice President, you have not stated whether you accept my objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? I believe it's the end of the day, that it may be a matter of concentration, but I ask you to make a statement as to whether you accept my objection and whether you agree with your injury to article 27. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly when you degraded the LDP MP or the ruling majority should be declared in the voting day. I think it's the Rules of Procedure that binds both you and me. And there is no parliament without controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28976	Mr. Jovanovic, I didn't say anything about hurting the Rules of Procedure because you didn't even explain it, but you asked me to apologize, but you didn't point out how I hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you'd proved that to me, there's no reason why I shouldn't apologize to Mrs. Gerov, not just her. The other day, I pulled a warning when I realized I was wrong. I'm not vain on that side at all. But you have to prove to me by your argument that I was wrong and I will admit it to you in that case. And now, in the end, you have the right to this basis that the Parliament in the voting day declares the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? Make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28977	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28978	The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, you wanted to. I apologize, Milivojevic. The word is Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28979	Thank you. I just wanted, since we got the information, to respond to what I couldn't do before, about the increase, or the papers I got from Mr. Djelic. First, the papers you gave me are not comparable to each other, you have to know that because one is the original budget for 2012 and another is the budget rebalance. In any case, an increase of 6.7% between executions for 2012 and 2013, nine months is explained – 2% indexation in April, 2% indexation in October, we have 1.2% higher for judges and court staff who have been returned, 780, that's two billion out of 11, the execution of 11 billion differences, that's the execution, the money, that's what we talked about earlier, and that's the normal increase based on past work and other things. I just wanted to get the facts straight. We can do it in more detail. I can leave it to you if you ask a parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28980	Mr. Djelic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28981	I'm mentioned, he mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28982	He just gave the answer, the facts. I really don't see the reason for the replica now. I won't give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28983	Mr. Chairman, he mentioned me. He said I was wrong. He said not to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28984	I didn't hear you. Sign up, just let me hear from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28985	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, this is a controversy. I'm mentioned, I have the right to defend my arguments. This is the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28986	Mr. Djelic, please know well that according to the Rules of Procedure the right to the replica is solely the right of the chairman to give. I won't allow you a replica, because I don't think there's any basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28987	Then it's Parliament time. I'm an authorised representative. As an authorised representative, at the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28988	You can at the expense of the parliamentary group, not as an authorised representative, because you've wasted your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28989	As far as we can see, in these figures, so say whether or not it's true, we're not talking about what balance, the rebalance, is in those papers until further notice that it's been spent this year, 187,9 billion, and that last year, for the same period since the first nine months, 169 billion has been spent. Is that true? If it's true, it represents 18.9 billion. If that's true, it's 25 billion a year. If that's true and you take about a million in gross for each perpetrator, then it would have been without an increase in wages, I don't know when these pay increases were, there were 25,000 additional people. I'm not saying there were so many of them, you're going to tell us how many extra people you hired. To remind all those present here, in that base are ministries, part of agencies and education. There is no local self-government, there is no part of the agency, there is no health care and there is no public enterprise. So if it's for that much, let's make it 7%, 10%, we'll see the exact figures, we'll compare, we're not surprised what's going on here. The theory is here when you criticize, you point to something that's wrong, then we mutilate Serbia from before and the queen is famous. I knew, as soon as I spoke today, that I would win and I got about 13.00 hours of your favorite tabloid, which will put me on the cover tomorrow. That's how it works with you, but it doesn't work anymore. No one trusts you in this way, to devalue the facts and arguments in this way. I would ask you to, and I would conclude by that, it seems that this base you're building, it determines how many people you've hired and because of it, because it wasn't done through competitions, it's the political deputies of the SNS, and that's why Serbia has to pay bigger taxes today. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28990	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28991	Mr. Djelic, we compare the figures just to make it clear to everyone, from the first nine months of 2012 and the first nine months of 2013. The figure you are calling for from the first nine months of 2012 refers only to the source 01 as the general revenue of the budget. The figure from the rebalancing I call for refers to all revenues, since their own revenues have been abolished. Do you agree that then what you've been saying by logic is true, is true, is true, it's not true. Because it's not. You haven't compared the exact numbers. It is true that in the first nine months of 2012 and 2013, according to all the budget revenues, including own resources, the difference is about 11 billion 187 to 176, which is approximately 6.7%, of which 4% is explained by indexation, 1.2% is explained by the return of about 780 judges and judicial staff on the basis of reforms that have not passed, and the rest is what naturally comes from past work and promotions and other things. Of course, there was probably a job back then. Just because we didn't have a register, I can't tell you exactly how much it was, especially because I can't say on what basis it was. Naturally, I wasn't even here then. In other words, I leave it to others to deal with it, but just for the very reasons we don't have it, we're introducing both that register and the plan and this instrument that we're going to be able to control what's going on. It's just an explanation, not a controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28992	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28993	I'll read to speak quietly, so that someone doesn't get alarmed, because whenever there's a review going on in the past tense, whenever the facts are being instructed, someone's asking for an apology. When I asked for an apology for 400,000 people who were out of a job, I got a warning. On the other hand, and a few days ago in the principle debate, and today I said something that I think everyone in this room will agree on, in the business of expanding the state administration, in one three-way state administration, there are no innocents. That guilt can only be proportionate to the years we've had as a responsibility to lead and to create a state administration. I didn't say at any point that there's been no employment in the last year and a half. Yes, it was, but it was in 2008 and 2007. Godfather, political, party, whatever. Let's show it once, yes, it was. Can't get the wheel back, that car going in some very wrong direction has been going for years, decades. He can't stop right now and start heading in the right direction. This law is amortization, to stop that wheel. Stop that car to start reforming the public administration. You can't say right now – yes, it's all guilty and responsible SNS, staring at your own responsibility. But we can once, as people, as responsible people say, there have been mistakes. Let's once stop at these mistakes, let's stop them once, let's take these moves to solve all of this, and not irresponsiblely, with any such claim only your nose can grow, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28994	Replica, Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28995	This discussion and how it makes sense, since we are told here that we need to increase VAT on bread, milk, etc., and that since this regime has taken responsibility, everything is saving, everything is great. They just can't stop everything right now, they're about to. We find here that exactly what I was saying this morning is 7%. You didn't want to tell me this morning it's 7%. You just said 6.7%. Thank you. I compared things in a way that you can compare when you're an MP on that contusion. Therefore, we know very well that Mr Dinkic had previously, it was one good thing he did and put his own revenues into the gross budget, as I did ten years ago. Now, if you're so responsible, and why did you increase 4.5 billion dinars of salary? What's the indexation for? If it's so hard and we're to blame, why did you increase your wages to those who had a safe job? I expect you to absolutely do so on Monday, since this is one of the largest positions in the Republic of Serbia's budget, to show us the full picture and how much wages have been increased in health and how much you have increased in public enterprises. According to some information, and they are not publicly available, unfortunately for us, it is said, I do not guarantee, that even up to 5,000 people are employed additionally in the public sector. Even if in some public enterprises there are almost that kind of thing. We're just waiting for you to tell us how many people you've been working since you came to power, because you almost didn't have one single contest, here for the EPS, it's still not over. How long does that take? You haven't implemented any of the only ones, except for the absolute, I'm not saying no, but certainly not the system companies. So it's a good thing you finally found that paper in your suitcase or in your drawer, as you were saying. I knew you knew. Instead of saving, you increased by 7%, and something more when you look at the whole twist, and here you plan to increase by 3.2%, and that's not responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28996	The replica, Mr. Babic. Please bring the replicas to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28997	I'll be very brief, one sentence. There's talk of what's allowed and what's needed and what's worth promoting here. What's said or what's a fact. There's also talk about my aunt's couch, so we don't take it as serious, but we can't say, well, tomorrow I'm going to go to the paper, tomorrow it's going to be this, tomorrow it's going to be this, it's going to be a showdown. He said here a man in this room, without wanting me to take him in the replica and he said good old, although we disagree politically – I was in the paper so what. We were all at some point in the paper and we were all exposed, so what, everybody do your job. But let's not run politics in this room based on "the words of the show" in some bar and on something that is insinuated. Compared to something that compares and what can't be compared. That can't be compared. There are no innocents in that business, but one has to put a stop to it. This Government of the Republic of Serbia, this kind of solution bravely said we're putting an end to these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28998	The word is according to the amendment Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u28999	Since it's evolved, so-called. I just want to add, and I think I'm going to capture the new controversy about how many new people are employed in 18 months or 20 months. Returning to the fact that I want to erase the view that a working relationship with new faces can be based on the consent of the government's body and the guarantees we hear from the finance minister. You know what that guarantee looks like? Twenty months have failed to implement two laws that entered into force in 2009, limiting the number of employees in the republican administration and local self-government along with the limit on the mass of profits, and now we will also leave this beyond implementation. It is too important that we should allow the whole public debate on such a topic as the government's working body to decide on the number of employees within 274 000 who are financed directly from the budget and by an estimated 100,000 who are indirect users or are beneficiaries of subsidies. That they will form a working relationship is too important a subject to use four keywords and move within this will work. Based on what? What prevented you from applying two laws that were passed in 2009 where you have much better formulas on limiting the number of earnings. What prevented you from bringing us an analysis, what happened to local self-governments that respected the 2009 law? What's only going to happen to them, because the message we have because of our incredible tendency to a political folklore where it doesn't belong, that whoever respected the law that was passed in 2009 will now be punished twice without this provision being enforceable. What a pleasure it is to come to this same congregation in seven months with a question of what happened to the conduct of the attitude I asked to erase, and you say we failed. Which one of these benefits? How long? I'm wrong, I'm wrong, it won't do anybody any good, and the damage will still be common. Please, if you really have the capacity and the will to enter the right public debate on the results of not implementing or implementing the law, on the reasons why this government does not enforce the law for 20 months, but the persons are employed under the 2009 law. They're in effect. Who will be responsible for those faces being already employed? But now we're going to say -- what's happened, who's hired, who's hired, now we have the government's body that's going to decide further on employment. It won't work, it can be used as a message of good government, it reduces administration, it forbids employment, but it won't happen in reality, because as suggested it can't happen. My wish with an amendment that was just to really open up a real debate once about the results of the law enforcement is in charge and this assembly. I repeat, no satisfaction, no one has, which was right, the damage has already been done, and responsibility has already been made for twenty-two months in the current Government of the Republic of Serbia and is also responsible for the finance minister, whoever he inherited and whatever problems he inherited. That is unfortunately the essence of political work. We always have a voluntary attitude to take a job or not to accept it, and when we accept it then we have a commitment if we want to bring in some news, to enter into a dialogue really, without standing in the positions of the key words – it is great, there will be no employment, there will be cuts and the proof is that we have failed to implement the laws already in force so far, it is excellent evidence for the future implementation of this provision in the amending Budgetary System Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29000	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29001	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have handed over the amendment to this member of the law saying that this member of the law should be deleted. The reasons for this are the following: I am a Krushevian; I know very well the problems my fellow citizens face every day. Let me explain this to you, for example, in the village of Dučalovici under Ovcara, where my family and family come from. Imagine, if we apply this measure today how to hire someone as a teacher in the Duchalovici, if a previous teacher retires, as is the time, and a teacher or teacher goes to maternity leave. Then the school board will have to decide who's to be admitted, so they'll send you a memo, so you'll give the opinion that it can or can't work. But where to hire not in Vrnjačka Banja, Trstenik, Raznja, Cicevic, where to hire someone in Alexinac, Major where there is no company. When someone from those places finishes college and goes back to that place, there's only kindergarten, elementary school, entertainment. Where to hire someone in Turkey? Only public enterprises and a few private firms work there, which already have enough employees and enough problems in business. So, your laws are bad, and in dramaticly bad circumstances, you're proposing this budget. I understand when someone is silent about the budget so they don't wake up the radical within themselves, because if they wake up the radical within themselves and if that little hole on the badge becomes a black hole that will swallow Serbia and Serbia's budget again as for the last term, it's hard for us. I'll take your advice that I should learn something from you. Here, looking at you, I learned never to become like you. Thank God. I heard an interesting thought when we discussed this amendment, that it was hard to stop a momentum that was shaking for months and years ago. He can't do that in 20 months. We still need 220 months in power to take care of Serbia. You know, you can. One of the best mayors in Belgrade's history you've replaced, so it's not Gilas, I see you think Gilas, he's one of the best, but she's had the Democratic Party of the Many Best. One of the best mayors of Belgrade, which we named on February 21st 1997, was Dr Zoran Djindjic. In one day, he succeeded in Belgrade City with his own measures to prevent all the nonsense you later did when you replaced him on October 1st 1997. The great man was elected Prime Minister in January 2001. In one day, he managed to stop the momentum you launched during the 1990s, aimed at destroying the Republic of Serbia. In one day, Dr. Zoran Djindjic was able to do it and correct all the stupid things you did while your lapels were adorning your badges. But this is an observation for everyone who's in the O.R.... (President: Please, Mr. Milivoevich, come back to the topic. Here, I'll return to the amendment. So you don't have to accept it like this, here's to you to understand better. It is not necessary to accept such a provision in the budget that the Government's body determines who will, when and where to work. Before that, you filled all the public enterprises with party personnel and it's like a criminal expedition to hit Serbia. Now that you've caught all yours, we won't. It's no longer valid. At a time when we're discussing this budget in every way you're trying to distract the public from the budget on some peripheral matter. Here, the amendment tells me I won't vote for him, because Alexander Vukic's advisors, Franco Frattini, Guzen Bauer and Stros Khan, and yesterday Oliver Antic told me he was going to shed light on the affair where all the affairs of small fairy tales, little children... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Milivoevich.) Make sure I have some kind of patience, too. )......................................................................................................... Here I am ending Mr. Chairman, I will not vote for this amendment, because I doubt these volunteers who work with Mr. Vukic, Stros Khan, Guzen Bauer and Frattini, yesterday I heard from Oliver Antic that they were investigating Cypriot money 12 years ago. So 12 years ago they charged, so now they're going to be working on their own. Well, I'm not voting for this budget, and I suggest this amendment, because I believe they have the right of people in Krusevec to work. If they had the right of people in Cicevic to graduate from college, they would go back to their place and work. That they have a right to work in Arilla, not only to wait for public enterprises, but to have the right to work. I'm particularly scandalized by these decisions not to increase pensions. You've realistically predicted an inflation of 13%, and you're reducing their pensions, you're increasing, not according to inflation, but much less. What do the pensioners say now? Well, I've got pensioners in my family. Each of you has a pensioner in your family and family. Pension funds were the richest funds of the Republic of Serbia. You know who robbed them? The ones with the badge. They took pension funds. There's no pension money now. There's no such thing as a booby trap to stop. (Chairman: Mr. Milivoevich... )......................................................................................................... Thank you. I'm done. So, I suggest to all of you who have a pensioner at home, who has mothers, fathers, parents, aunts, uncles, aunts, that you do not hire their children in public enterprises, but that you go back home and tell them – we did not want to vote for that budget, because we wanted your pensions to follow the cost of your life, because we care about you, to take care of you and to take care of you. So vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29002	Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29003	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, and I'm going to ask you at the beginning – do you want to run this session, according to the Rules of Procedure, or are you going to be another one of the silent viewers at the Corona circus or are you going to accept that all gestures, as if on the airstrip, belong to you? Because I don't believe that they belong to young Mr. Krstic, who at some point, who was either not in the country, or he was still playing marbles with his friends at the end, but he's being imputed by things that have nothing to do with reality. Will you conduct this session and inform us that today is not a debate on the Budget Law, that we will discuss the Budget Law on Monday, or Monday, and that no one can talk about anything, or on the same matrix whenever they want to, by the same matrix, or do you accept that everything that the previous speaker has said applies to you? In accordance with Article 107(2) of the Rules of Procedure, no contact shall be made with the other Members of Parliament. Take the session properly and warn and wake up the MPs whose head is still in the '90s.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29004	Mr. Babic, if you don't think I'm having a good session, there's a way to get rid of it. I know it's very difficult for all of you to please and everyone is somehow trying to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I'm aware of that. Maybe you're right, I can be stricter, but then when I'm stricter, you get angry again. If I don't allow a small width, it's no good again. So I know it's hard to please everyone, but I have one system of my own, the principle of this session. Sometimes I might be a little softer, sometimes stricter, but that's right. But you have the right to do so, and I'm not angry that you've made me a little bit of a critic in this regard, but you have the right to ask us to plead in the voting day. (No) The word of the messenger of the people is Dejan Michael, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29005	Dear Chairman, we are all here to please the citizens, not each other, this is one political struggle. I have one proposal for you, as the chairman, to separate all these stories, who has employed, there is Minister Krstic, there is as a representative of the government, to take a nice number of employees from the state administration since 2001, and to see how much there is anywhere, which was a paying fund, how profits were being made, and to see when the largest number of people were employed in the state administration and then simply prepare that data for the debate on the budget and then to see the movement of employees, to see the stampede since 2008, the stampede on state administration and public enterprises, when it gave up the belt and when it started. Simply, Mr. Chairman, it is as a proposal for you to take advantage of your opportunity, as the first among the equals now that you are sitting there, and to make that proposal and then finally get back to the debate, to see how through this debate we will find the best solution for the citizens of Serbia. We are counting on your sitting head as a voice of reason that can bring this debate to what it should be, and that is some citizens' interest in how to address in the best possible way the number of more employees in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29006	Mr. Michael, I really didn't understand what I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Don't ask me to play a mediator here between the government and the MPs. I don't want to be that. I'm trying to run a session. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? (No) The word of the People's Messenger is Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29007	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 108. – on the agenda of the National Assembly the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman. To make your job easier, to know when I speak, I never speak to you. On the contrary, I believe that the most responsible political party for the events in Serbia is sitting in this room, and I speak even less to Minister Krstic. You should know, whenever I speak to you, I address across the street, the MPs sitting across from me from the SNS, to you as strangers, as the main, main party of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29008	Please, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure now? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: I just want to help you. No, thank you. Don't help me at all. I would be happier if you spoke to me more than to the MPs and the parties, because then there would be no replicas or misunderstandings like this. If it were luck, that's how the Rules of Procedure would be. Don't you look at my gray head. I wear it the way I wear it. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29009	I'm advertising Article 27, Mr. Chairman. What I was saying was true, and I'm glad to hear it. I ask you, Mr. Chairman, I do not ask you to have double arches, I do not ask you to be elastic, I ask that you respect the Rules of Procedure and that this Rules of Procedure be the same for all MPs. There are no MPs of the first and second order, there are no protections, and there are no MPs of the second order. We're all the same before the law and before God. I'm just asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure and when someone talks to someone in this room directly and admits that they give him a warning and that these things don't work, otherwise we're going to turn into something we don't need to turn into. Also, I ask you to coordinate the debate in line with the agenda point, not to discuss the topics that will only be discussed next week, linking to the argument of 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29010	Mr. Babic, surely I can't run the Rules of Procedure by some of your wishes. That's the first one. Secondly, as far as the agenda is concerned, you're absolutely right, but that's where you all have to help me. I'm with you to deal with hardly I can. I can, but then I have to apply unpopular measures, then I have to punish here, to be a man to punish, etc. Please, as much as you respect the Rules of Procedure, that's how you make my work easier. Just to say this, I'm really trying to be equal to all of you. Is that what I'm doing? That's another question now, but my wish is that I have the same arches for everyone and I ask you all to keep that in mind. Mr. Risticevic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29011	To say on what basis, you have to include me. I'm reporting for the amendment, may I? At first, I'll say I have no problem when you allow more to the opposition, but there's another problem here. I read the amendment carefully, and I couldn't understand it. I don't know if the other MPs read the material carefully, but I read it. The amendment states in Article 1 that Articles 8 and 9 are deleted. Item 9 in Article 1 does not exist. I can't believe you're such a smart and talented messenger...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29012	Please don't. What did Mr. Babic just talk about?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29013	What have I done to offend you? I didn't claim it wasn't. On the contrary, I claimed it was. Can I finish? The government says attitude nine doesn't exist. In response, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is technically incorrect, given that Article 1 is paragraph 8. The bill proposed that the current positions of 31st and 34th become positions 38th and 41st, while Article 9 does not exist in this article. It is not clear in which way attitude 8 and the non-existent position 9 are devising this law, as stated in the reasons for the amendment. So, I read article one carefully, and that's why I said I was speaking according to the amendment. I can't believe a mistake like that could have slipped away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29014	On what basis are you answering? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Replica. To whom? Mr. Rističević?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29015	Dear Mr. Chairman, I had a good teacher in elementary school, God rest her soul, Rosica Lazic and she said – there were students with me who only finished first semester and then read only until the first semester. There is something here, for those who read carefully, called the amendment correction. I don't know if you're learning reading or not at the farm, but you're learning at school. Whoever went to school, taught Cyrillic, could see that there was an amendment for this amendment, which I also submitted. I'm sorry that people, half-intellectuals, only half-read. There are people who have read this, as the government people have read, so they have not given an answer to my amendment. Silence is a sign of acceptance everywhere in the world, so I understand that the government has accepted my amendment and there is no need to criticise a harsh government. Don't criticize them, they're smart people, you're right, they haven't read it carefully, I've given the correction, but if you have just as strong words of criticism for the government, then vote well against that government. Don't criticize them like this. It's not nice. This is what Serbian citizens are looking at, and they are surprised that the MP who most loudly defends the ruling majority is thus criticising the government. It's not appropriate. Yet here are the people who read carefully, in the government sitting people who also read carefully, on the board as well. They gave people the answer to the first amendment. I've made amends. There was no answer to the amendment. I understand why you're criticizing the government, but that criticism, show that concern to the village when you won't vote for the government and vote for my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29016	Mr. Risticevic, listen to me, I really think it's funny to discuss now whether the amendment is valid or not. Some insignificant things are wasted time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29017	Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to both you and this tall house, I'm afraid you've warned the wrong MP because I'm the only one who's read the amendment entirely. If anyone was speaking according to the amendment, I was speaking. What you should have listened to a little more carefully, and that doesn't bother me either, was that there was something here that was also a matter of private life, which is even a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Being on Farm, living on a farm doesn't diminish my value. I didn't write a technically incorrect amendment, it was written by a person who spoke before me. I can't bear the responsibility and blame him for being on "The Farm," because I'm still living on a farm today. It's something from private life, something that the Rules of Procedure are forbidden to say, and even though I was on "Farma," that doesn't mean I was in a pigsty and that I should roll with pigs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29018	The People's MP Ljiljana Lucic submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29019	Thank you. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, the amendment that I have submitted, reads: "The ban on working relations will not apply to young highly educated people up to 35 years of age in institutions, users of public funds in the field of scientific and research work, education, health and culture. “ The government rejected this amendment and stated in an explanation that it was discriminatory. That's a really weird explanation. This means that the government doesn't understand that whenever you have a policy, you have it according to a particular social group that you think is particularly endangered and such a policy is welcome and is usually referred to as positive discrimination. Fortunately, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Law of the National Assembly knows that there is positive discrimination, so my amendment declared that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? It's something that's known to the general public, which we've talked about for so long, that during the world's economic crisis around the world, the most difficult consequences are just falling on the back of young people, especially educated people, that all governments in the world are seriously dealing with this problem. In our society, in Serbia, according to the latest data from June 2013, 260,000 young people are waiting for work. In the EU, youth unemployment rose from 15% to 23%. In June 2013, in Brussels, the presidents of the countries and the EU government had a special summit, at which they agreed on measures to reduce youth unemployment and set aside six billion euros. I didn't expect under the conditions of such an economic crisis that our government was detaching special funds that would speed up youth employment, but I didn't expect them to be banned from employment for the next two years. The amendment of the Finance Committee facilitates the situation with young people by exempting from the ban on employment in higher education institutions and scientific and research institutions, but not at other levels of education, not in health, not in culture. So the problem remains, and it really threatens to cause serious social problems and to endanger both short and long-term social development. The minister is in the debate today, as this issue has been opened several times, said that young people can be employed in the private sector. I will repeat, a recent survey carried out by the Union of Employers of Serbia, resulting in 90% of them not being able to employ young people in 2014. I think this amendment should have been accepted. All governments are working on programs like this. There are even projects in Serbia that are funded by the EU for the return of young experts. We forbid them from employment and make them a future without perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29020	The MPs Vesna Kovač and Slavica Saveljic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Vesna Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29021	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I am very grateful, Mr Minister, that the government has heard and adopted this amendment, also to the MPs, members of the committees in charge who voted in favour of this amendment. Why is he important? The term – the user of public funds is a very broad concept and covers a broad spectrum, including legal entities owned by the majority of the Republic of Serbia, whether units of local self-government. This amendment allows those legal entities whose basic activity of seasonal character is to be allowed to employ, actually engage persons by contract and over 10%. This is very important, because we have a number of public-communal companies, where there is a need to engage more than 10%, such as "City Cleanness", "Green" etc. We have, for example, companies dealing with the publishing of textbooks, which make authorship contracts with all writers of these textbooks, so this amendment is very important for the application of this law. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29022	National MP Bozidar Djelic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Mr Bozidar Djelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29023	Let me say I'm going to withdraw this amendment, because during the Committee session, we realized that the next one was better. There's still a question present. We hear fantastic figures coming from that central register. It is clear that he needs Serbia and that is why we supported him. However, one example I gave this morning, which I gave the Belgrade University Rector, on this particular case he was more than surprised by what he found in that central registry. It seems to us that if it's a priority, which it is, because we had a 4.5% increase in wages through indexation. As I recall, what was scheduled for this year was 1.5%. I don't know when the government changed that indexation. Why hasn't anyone heard anything about it? On this issue of wages, we have great doubts and it will be very important that as soon as possible before the government comes out with concrete figures and that it works. In that sense, I withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29024	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Mladjan Dinkic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29025	Dear Minister, I want to thank you for accepting this amendment. I think that's brave. Centralised profit calculation in the public sector is also important because of the planning of funds and efficiency. It's meant to be saved. I thank Mr. Djelic for his compliment on this amendment, too. I'd like to take this opportunity and tell you that it's important and something that we're going to talk about later, to amend the Tax Procedure Act, which will pool the payment, or condition the payouts with the payment of the contribution. All of this contributes to financial discipline and, above all, liquidity. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to ask you about the application of the Public Sector Payments Limitation Act, or whether budget and budget beneficiaries respect payment deadlines, since nothing has been heard for months? If you don't hear it because everything's okay, it's great, and if that law doesn't go the way it's supposed to be, then it's not a good signal, so if you're in a good position, you just tell me about the law whether it's used or not, about payment deadlines. I'm sorry I abused the Rules of Procedure for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29026	The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29027	The content of my amendment is to delete the proposed Article 3 in the draft law. The content of Article 3 is an explanation of which types of penalties are established for breaking the law, so it says that a fine of between 500,000 and 2 million dinars is punishable for violating the user of public funds if he does not respect the provisions of the members we spoke of in the previous part of the debate. The fines of 30,000 to 2 million will punish the person responsible for the offence for the public funds user if he does not respect the provisions of the law. In the event that direct or indirect beneficiaries of the budget and beneficiaries of the mandatory social insurance organisations do not comply with the provisions, the minister will then: 1) suspend the enforcement of the apropriations intended for payment of salaries, i.e. the receipt of employees, elected, appointed and employed persons by the beneficiaries of the budget and beneficiaries of the mandatory social security organisations and 2) suspend the transfer of the transfer funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the corresponding part of the income tax and corporate tax to the local government. I have two questions for this member, since my proposal to delete is denied. Is it taken care of what is still a local self-government tax, because we have already had a confusion about whether or not the draft budget shows up the amount that we adopted in the meantime no longer belongs to local self-governments? The second question is, who pays this money? Is it true that the amounts we talk about are taken from the budget and returned to the budget, or is the person responsible to take out from private funds the amount of 30 000 to 2 million dinars and then deposit in the budget? Since it's been a practice so far to do this second, which is what I'm asking for clarification, therefore, from the budget of that same institution is being paid a criminal penalty. An additional clarification is also necessary because of two laws that I have already mentioned, and since 2009, which have been in force since the Law on the Restriction of the number of employees in the Republic administration and in local self-government, so I ask what is the criterion to apply to the violation of this law? Will it be the case that for the violation of the laws, which are in force both in 2009, no one will be punished under the provisions of that law, and for the employment of a person during 2012 and 2013, or will in the future be without the application of the laws which are in force in 2009, and as regards the republican administration and local self-government, and who will decide that only this part of the same violation of the amending and supplementing the Law on the budgetary system, and not the law that remains in force and applies either to the republican administration or to local self-government? I wish I didn't have to ask these questions. I wish there hadn't been a mistake in the draft budget on what kind of tax goes to local self-government, and it doesn't go according to the laws passed in the meantime, but because of all of us who need to worry about law enforcement, I think the minister is obliged to give clear answers to these three questions. So, from whose pocket do the fines go into the budget? Secondly, which law is applied, one or the previous two? Third, who decides which law will apply, in the light of the same provisions in one law, and who exempts all those who, during the previous years, have violated the provisions of the Law on the restriction of the number of employees in the Republic administration, or local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29028	The word has Minister Lazar Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29029	Very short to answer these three questions. You are right that it was corrected by the amendment in that other law regarding which part of the tax belongs to the local self-government and whose pocket. The user of the funds is, but also, the responsible person. Secondly, it is, from the users of public funds, returning to the budget, however, the user of public funds is left without that money. As for the third question, this law applies in this case. The two previous ones were also defined differently where there is already a violation, but what we do is that local self-government is not granted further to those who overstepped four into a thousand quotas. We will also address it through this reform of the public administration that we are going through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29030	Replica, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29031	Thank you. Did I get it right? The fines are paid out of the funds of an institution that is a user, not out of anyone's private pocket, and they go into the same budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29032	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29033	The private responsible person pays out of his pocket, of course, and the budget user of the funds is also being punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29034	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Milan Lapčević and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29035	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the DSS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment saying that the National Assembly will consider consent in the government's act by an urgent procedure. It is argued that it is unacceptable for the National Assembly to give consent to this act. I really cannot agree with that, because we are MPs, therefore, representatives of the people who should know what will be in this act of government. So we need to know and pass it on to our citizens. I repeat the question again – why don't we pass a law on employment in autonomous provinces and local self-governments, which defines exactly what professions can be the one to be employed in a particular place in local self-government? That would be very helpful to all of us in the local self-government. You say I need it by July 1st, or you'll be done by July 1st next year and this law won't apply. But that doesn't say anything, Mr. Minister, that's what you say. Therefore, in this law, you should have put the law on local self-government and provinces, employment and salaries by July 1st 2014. When you put it that way, everything else is really an empty story. I think you talked about public administration reform, you gave advice on public administration reform, which was formed in June 2013, and did you finish those questions you were supposed to answer, or do that central employee register? Also, I think that besides all that, you should let local self-governments decide on these issues themselves, because in this way, by limiting them, you limit them both in development and in their desire to advance. Once again, I would remind you that in small areas, no one will really want to get a job. Believe me, if you hadn't become a minister and returned to Serbia, surely you couldn't find a job anywhere, no matter what schools you graduated from and no matter what kind of expert you were. I'd like to ask you if you know who's going to work in Nova Varosha and Priboj for such a small salary in local self-government now that we're limiting this? All people will leave because no one will be able to come back and we won't be able to work in small municipalities or local self-government. Do you know what the pay gaps between Belgrade and the interior are? Do you know that when you pass a law on criteria or a law on employment in local self-governments and provinces, you should take care of the characteristics, characteristics and characteristics of each local self-government individual rather than the laws to make the only criterion below 50,000 inhabitants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29036	Thank you. According to the amendment, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29037	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, on the basis of the discussion and the proposings of this amendment, I propose to the Ministry that it really seek the reports of the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, to do one section of the state since 2008, as a colleague suggested through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to be seen not only by the public sector in terms of public enterprises, but also by local self-government itself, what was the number of employment, how much was the quota in terms of the number of employees and local self-governments, with some cuts in 2005, 2008 and 2012. On this basis, we will determine exactly where the inflows were, which municipalities, on the basis of which criteria and what jobs they were based on, were in employment. Was it an educated high-speed vessel, or was it in that nomenclature exactly where it applied to medium professional equipment? On this basis, we will also see what municipalities the congregation’s majority ruled, or which parties employed, in which places and for what reasons. Because there are probably municipalities where tourist centres, where they were able to employ more people, and there were also municipalities and local self-governments that were not in that position. In the public sector, in public enterprises, where investments were, where there were higher revenues, there were obviously reasons for more employment, which, of course, doesn't have to mean anything at all, it can be shown that the great losers have just hired a lot more people and that the funds have been spent in an inadequate way. So I really think it's useful for all of us to do that so-called. Scanning, as far as the public sector is concerned, in these 740 thousand employees, we will know exactly the qualification and spending of financial resources, on the one hand. On the other hand, I think it is important for you to say how many times in making arrangements with the IMF it has been stressed that 20% must be fired in the public sector, per year, exactly, based on certain legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29038	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr Bozidar Djelic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29039	I'll be the first to admit that this is quite a bold amendment, not to say controversial. But he's here to help us. Mr. Minister, I have to tell you that, as we speak, and that's a message for you who intend to lead this country into the next few years, believe me, it's now working 24 hours, making permanent employment solutions, indefinitely. Since we are in Serbia, when people saw that this has entered the procedure and that one such law, against us, but with you, will vote, at this point on all levels, increase the base and increase to levels that you can't even imagine. We know that you have provided in the law a provision according to which every procedure that has been initiated since this law enters into force must then be approved, and that is why everyone, at all levels, is trying to cement some starting position and, of course, to supplement it in the days to come. So this amendment, I suggest we say the next thing -- since the government's reconstruction happened, here, we have listened to you and believed that from that moment on, it starts all for the better, that this time it's serious, that it will be saved, everything the Prime Minister said in the exposé that you helped him write, so that everything that was then founded as a working relationship and to this day is something that will be considered nothing. That, of course, is retroactive. That is why it is necessary for the National Assembly to recognize it and allow it. It's, no doubt controversial. But it seems to me, Mr. Minister, that this is the only way that if you want to have any effect on this law, you get to the finish line. These hours and these days, at every moment, the effect of what you're proposing here is reduced. On the contrary, I bet all of this is going to have one counter-effect and in fact some people who didn't think to hire an indefinite number of people are going to do it. They'll do it in public enterprises, they'll do it in institutions, hospitals, everywhere there is, and almost everywhere there's that difference, between approved systematicization, on the one hand and an effective number of perpetrators, and so they'll do it all by law. What you have already done, an increase of at least 7% of the salary this year according to the previous one, and what you have written will be 3.2% increase next year, it will all be ridiculous numbers when you see what base this government will start working with on January 1, 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29040	MP Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29041	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is simply not true. Do you read some things to the end, or read them selectively, that is already the problem of one who reads and acts according to the laws. But whoever announces these so disastrous things, I must read Article 7 of this bill, which says: "This law takes effect the next day from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia". If the promoter, the government of the Republic of Serbia, wanted what the previous speaker had announced, they would have written as of 1 January, as of 1 April, and given a deadline. You don't get it, Mr. Djelic, in the state administration, I don't know if you're used to it here in the city of Belgrade or anywhere, political, godfatherly, burzarical or whatever, come to work tomorrow. Maybe he can do that at a private company. There are competitions for this, there are deadlines, there's everything that can't be reduced to three days from the moment this bill on the budget system entered the assembly procedure until Monday when it comes to life, because tonight we're going to vote on it by the majority of the MPs. Don't announce anything that isn't. The idea of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was as you predicted earlier in the speech of the application of this law would have been from January 1st, or who knows when, in 2014. By applying the next day of publication, we're just trying to prevent exactly what you've announced. Thank you for your promotion and thank you for giving me a point for both the government and the assembly majority, showing the right purpose and the real desire to put an end to the political, party, godfather or any employment that you have cherished as a value in recent years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29042	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Replica, Mr Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29043	I don't think there's any reason to introduce emotions here. I think a colleague from the DSS suggested something useful. We'll back it up. Let the Ministry of Finance prepare the table on behalf of the Government and see how many employment procedures were launched in September, October, November, and December of the month, i.e. In December to the second when this law begins to apply. As far as political employment is concerned, things are very clear. It's just enough to see if the government respects its own laws. How many directors of public enterprises have been chosen in the manner provided for by the law, we will see that there is almost no one there, that it is an empty set. And also for everything that's supposed to be the subject of a competition by law that only this way is the last time it's written analytically, we've seen it's only 12%. So, the months pass, the days in which you introduce more and more anxiety every day, the more your hands on your heart, the more yours, the more they pass, but the facts remain. The facts will show that with the greatest responsibility in Serbia's history, as my fellow MP said since we came to the Balkans, Slovenia. Let that table be made so that we can see what on the federal level, on the other hand, we don't play any tricks and charms, let's see who was present on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and let's see who's been around since January 25, 2001. But I'm afraid you won't be very happy with the results. You'll see that one such amendment has been in place and at this point they start a large number, look at the paper, enough to look at it, how many competitions have been published in recent weeks. People here haven't started to think like you have since this entered the Assembly, they've seen it well since the moment the government was reconstructed and you announced these measures. We'll see each other with the tables.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29044	Replica, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29045	By old custom, retreat. It was just before -- here are the solutions, now in the replica -- they stood up in September. We'll get to the table, then we'll see what's who, what's what. I think I've traveled a lot more than you have in the local environments and seen a lot more of the struggle for a chair in public enterprises and in municipal administrations. The Serbian Progressive Party had no responsibility for such a thing, nor are we afraid of the table, nor are we afraid of the truth, don't just call on it and actually run away from it. As far as emotion is concerned, if you recognize it in my voice -- that I cultivate emotion because I love my country, and that's how I'll be to the end. If you have any other emotion, I think that's more your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29046	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodor Vlahovic and Nada Kolundžija. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodor Vlahovic and Nada Kolundžija. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29047	Dear Vice President, I did not want to explain these between the amendments, for the simple reason that they are all related to the amendment to Article 1 and refer to local self-government. I have now come to the end just to say, given all our suggestions, and there have been a lot of proposals and amendments related to local self-government for the simple reason that apparently a large number of MPs feel the need to point out the problem of those local self-governments that have taken care of the number of employees and have not penetrated the mass of earnings, which are now in the same basket as the others who are and who will not be able to just hire but to fill the vacant places. Why did I take your word for it? I wanted to draw attention to the fact that this problem cannot be solved by the finance minister without the Minister of Regional Development, and as we know since the government's reconstruction and replacement of the minister at the head of this ministry, the working group that prepares the law and related to salaries in local self-government has also been related to cities, municipalities and provinces and has not had any meetings. So that law is now standing somewhere and our fears are that it will not be in front of the MPs until next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29048	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have submitted an amendment to Article 6. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the motionor accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I am aware that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? The word has Božidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29049	I must say, we unanimously accepted this amendment on the Finance Committee. It contains two key things that are correct but I will have criticism of implementation. The first is to identify the division of power in three branches and it is good that the government does not control what is happening in the legislative i.e. In a judge's, legal one. However, we are very pleased that the initiative we launched a few days ago that what was not recognised by the legislator, and I must say that we were shocked to hear on the Committee of Education, which was attended by the Minister of Education, which was not attended by representatives of the SNS and the SPS with one exception, thank him for that, and this is the deputy president of that body, we heard that this law was not seen, that it was not given the opportunity to give an opinion on any such law. It's a reflection of the relationship within this coalition. The fact is that education is obviously not in the first place and it was a little difficult to watch as the minister in charge of education, science and technological development struggle along with the opposition to hear the voice of education, because it was not such an amendment adopted, because with the exception of regular teachers and administrators in higher education institutions, believe it or not, everyone in particular because it is a dose of flexibility needed to be able to go from calling to calling and it is good because it shows that they have to fight to prove that they are worthy and the title of a doctor etc., we would have an unexplainable situation and therefore I think it is good that finally the leading party of this coalition recognized it. Then she's rewritten or respected, it's not so important, in the broader amendment that we've proposed, and so we've avoided a big problem, to tell young scientists that their only solution is immigration. On the other hand, I said this morning, and I won't do it again, which is why we don't understand why the Committee on Administrative Budgetary Affairs is the one who has to say who can further work in the RRA, the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency. The government said the finance ministry in the executive office is working both ways, looking at budgets and should propose to the government whether someone should have an additional employment permit. No, obviously in the assembly because there is a president who comes from the top of the headquarters party, it is better to go in worshiping him, that Mr. Babic says who can and cannot. It can serve in times, obviously the burning that are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29050	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29051	It's wonderful to be a subject, fiction to someone, but I'm going to repeat what's a fact again. The Administrative Committee, i.e. the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, is a collective body, 17 members of the Committee. I don't know why my colleague Djelic doesn't trust his party friends and colleagues who are members of this committee, which is why he has a problem leaving independence to the National Assembly and independent regulatory bodies, with all the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the understanding of Mr Krstic, to be left independent, in the National Assembly, in one transparent process. It is not up to any member of an individual assembly committee who will be employed and who will not, but who shall give consent to the employment on the basis of a proposal from those bodies. In addition, if you had followed the assembly work, you would have seen that the Administrative Board gives consent to the systematization of jobs in independent regulatory bodies, giving consent to the systematization of jobs. If it gives consent to the systematization of jobs, there is a logic and there is a link that should give consent to both the number of perpetrators and the possible increase of jobs. One question, would it be acceptable for Mr Djelic, that if tomorrow, without wanting to replace Mrs Vesna Kovač, would it be acceptable for the Finance Committee to do so, unless it is led by Mrs Vesna Kovač but by my colleague Veroljub Arsic, and that the Administrative Board in that case is led by your colleague Nenad Konstantinovic, our colleague Nenad Konstantinović. Don't personally, none of this has any personal effects. Here's the logic, there's this thread you can't connect to any other committee in the Serbian Parliament, and if you're bothered by transparency... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... If you are bothered by the protection of the independence of independent regulatory bodies and the independence of the National Assembly, then it is a fundamental misunderstanding of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29052	Replica, Mr Bozidar Djelic. With this, we can finish the replicas, move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29053	Let me tell you, Mr. Granny, nothing personal. I suggest you do it next. You have a chance to do that. Resign at the head of that committee, move on to this committee, become its president. We support that you, as chairman of the Finance Committee, decide on this, absolutely. The problem is that according to Article 65, which I read again – in the responsibility of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, there is nothing you talk about. The only thing you're talking about is that you agree to the Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Service of the National Assembly. Period and nothing else. The fact that you grabbed something extra, that's the problem. Thank you for reminding us that we should probably talk about it. As is the case in the government, there should be one place where money is controlled, and since it's a large part of the cost of work, people's jobs, it's supposed to be in one place. Mr. Granny, read what your work regulates. If you care about being the one to determine whether someone should be hired extra, no problem, or go to the government, you said that Mr. Krstic plays the marble, and then perhaps you can replace him, or possibly, if you will, replace Mrs. Kovac, it is in your ability. So you didn't allow, when you set up committees, that the opposition, contrary to what's been going on since 2004, was led by the Finance Committee. So much for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29054	Thank you. Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29055	Thank you, Mr. Djelic, for reminding me of certain things, that your MP group, although in a rash, still has presidents on five Assembly committees, although mathematics shows something else, and this mathematics shows that other parliamentary groups are damaged by you not allowing changes. According to the Rules of Procedure, which has not written by the SNS, there is a clearly defined Article 23, that the majority in each committee has a majority on boards. What now? Now most of you are responsible because the opposition did not come to the Education Committee. That's why you didn't even hold the board, Mr. Djelic, tell the truth to the end, not just in the part that suits you. Mr Milan Knezevic, the chairman of this committee has not come, from the ranks of your parliamentary group. The vice president, Mr. Knezevic of the SNS, came very responsible. Why wasn't it held? Because you didn't come, because you're not interested. Why wasn't that board held? Say it to the end. Look me in the eye and say, "Why has it not been maintained?" Which is why eight MPs from the opposition didn't come and Milan Knezevic is nine, it's a quorum, you didn't have a quorum. Mr. Djelic, don't tell the truth. On the other hand, please inform your colleagues involved in the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. We held over 60 sessions. They are very responsible for each session. You see what the powers of the Administrative Board are, which is to give consent to the systematicisation and change of the systems of jobs in independent regulatory bodies. Call Mr. Sabic, there is Mr. Vlad Ilic, who had controversy at one point... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Mr. Shabic, right about that. Inform yourself, and don't talk or rip anything but what suits you. You can't point at it, we won't let you because it doesn't agree with the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29056	Mr. Djelic, let's get back to the subject. Replica, last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29057	Let me just say that we're asking professional service to prepare, over the next half hour, the hour, as long as it takes, to see who was there yesterday and you'll see what some have told us, which is that they can't show up, is true, and it's from the ranks of this majority. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29058	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic picked up the word after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29059	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are some things that are not the happiest and most clear to me. When a fellow MP begins to read our Rules of Procedure, it is a small constitution of the National Assembly, and does not read the whole article, read only what is appropriate, it is very worrying. A colleague like that should do this in a more serious way. The responsibility of the Committee on Finance and Jurisdiction of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs shall be governed by Article 65. That 65th member is almost on two sides. But, he says, the Committee does other things in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. It's obviously something my colleague doesn't want to read, because here is a legal basis for why the board on administrative and budget issues will do. No one prescribed any amendments, and it is a very interesting claim that the minister said he was not familiar with the content of the law, Minister of Education, and that is a very serious problem then, the minister's problem. Because everyone who was in the government, and also a colleague who was first standing up and talking about this amendment, was also a minister in the government, knows that he gets all the material when the bill is established and goes to the cabinet session, which will determine as his draft law. Is there a minister in the government who doesn't read and vote, it's a serious problem and this can be addressed by this National Assembly and should be dealt with, of course. Otherwise, the amendment was submitted to the SNS initiative in the Finance Committee because we wanted to preserve the dignity of independent state bodies, regardless of what I believe that the working body in the Government of the Republic of Serbia would be fully properly doing the jobs and giving consent. However, it is a little humiliating that those who need to control the government's work must seek and beg for some consent provided for by this law. There were even questions – why the National Assembly was excluded from this law, that is, this amendment. The answer is really simple and simple. Imagine now that we are verifying the mandate of the MP of the people and he is addressing the Administrative Committee for the Establishment of Working Relations in the National Assembly and colleagues, the President of the Administrative Board writes to a fellow MP – sorry, we are in order to establish a working relationship in the National Assembly, but first we must ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Or you want the Finance Committee to do so, but then we need to change the name of the Administrative Board to be just a committee on mandate-immunity issues and nothing more to do. This work of granting consent at the reception of workers, the Administrative Committee is already working. Their professional services have already been trained and prepared for such a thing. We've never done that to the Finance Committee. The only thing the Finance Committee was doing was selecting members of the Commission to conduct competitions for the selection of members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Since I was a member of that subcommittee that conducted this contest, I know what problems we've been facing because it's something new and that the services on the board itself haven't been familiar with, and now you're asking that same committee, because the chairman of that committee is from the ruling majority, we change or we switch or someone else to put on. One more thing, I don't mind if the DS supports the SNS, but I'm asking my DS colleagues that when they want to replace something with us, they don't want to give someone else their best intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29060	The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29061	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. Mr. Secretary, very briefly, since I have little time left, I have three questions. First question, you know that there is a Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the obligation to employ disabled persons, to a certain number of employees, each organisation, each company, must employ a person with disabilities. When we have such a law, I'm asking you now, let's say we have a few people with disabilities in Bruce and all the companies there have hired a number of people. The law states that some people should be hired. There's a local environment ready to be helped. How are we going to solve this problem when we have a law like this? The second question, imagine Bruce again. It's a strong winter this year, the road route between Bruce and Jarm and Kopalnik leads to a need to employ people who will clean snow in a public utility, but not on a part-time basis, there is a need not to be seasonal workers. As long as you give the solution, while the government is ambushed, that's where the road will be inaccessible? The third question or finding, since we are communicating with citizens during the session, I am just communicating with a lady who works in "The Railways" Serbia and she tells me – I cannot go home today, because I've been writing solutions all day. I've written over 260 solutions to this day for the reception of new workers until the law is passed. Check how many and give us an answer whenever you enter the Assembly, in a month, what is it yesterday, the day before and the day of the employees of Serbia's Railways, while awaiting the adoption of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29062	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29063	It's very short to answer these questions for you. That's exactly why we have a body in the government. In some other countries, someone has asked a question before, where this is done. This is done in many other countries, and there are examples where employment is completely frozen except in certain areas that we have not talked about today. But that is why we have a government body that will be able to ensure that other laws, such as the Law of the University, are respected. And for that reason, we have set a deadline until March 1st, as far as these temporary occasional jobs are concerned, and you probably don't listen to me, public utility companies have the opportunity to prepare themselves and ask for consent in advance for situations that would be so high with our own. As far as "The Railway" of Serbia is concerned, I cannot answer that, but the register will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29064	Thank you for your word, MP Srdjan Shane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only like for the public to really clarify some things about the amendment and the discussion, when it comes to the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, the point is that it is the only committee in the Serbian Parliament that has in its work on issues concerning internal relations in the Assembly. So it's the only committee that deals with these issues. All other committees have in their jurisdiction certain issues dealing with certain matters concerning, among other things, the control of the executive authority, other issues, but are concerned with the issues of internal relations within the Serbian Parliament. So, on the relationship between MPs, the relationship between professional services and MPs, etc. In that case, we can't talk about the Finance Committee so he can be in charge. So it's not about the money. It's not about whether there's gonna be money, someone getting paid or not getting paid for it. It's not about hiring certain experts, it's about relations within the Assembly who are and are the only one who owns this committee, and it's the best argument that it is a good solution that we've talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29066	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Djuric. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Kovač and Slavica Saveljic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29067	The representatives of the URS have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and in addition to the above-mentioned professions, we propose that health care professionals and health associates be excluded from the employment ban over the next two years. We have been watching the health minister for days that throughout Serbia, with intolerable ease of trying to convince us of all her efforts to improve Serbia's health system, but unfortunately, life and everyday life, and God and official data in this matter are very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much. The second year in a row of Serbia's health system has been declared the worst in Europe. The second year in a row, unfortunately, we've taken the last and the infamous place. We are both below Latvia and Romania and Bulgaria, and the position of patients in Serbia can be estimated by one word as alarming. That's not the only way to judge him. That's not the only way to judge him. That's how patients judge him. I'll just remind you that the cancer patients in this country are on average waiting longer than 21 days for therapy. To wait longer than three months for heavy and complex operations. To wait longer than five years for a hip or knee brace to be installed. The health system in Serbia today can only boast with its own staff. So, neither equipment, nor space, nor appliances, but medical personnel, doctors, medical technicians who actually maintain the stability of the health system with knowledge and enthusiasm in this country. Therefore, the representatives of the URS have proposed that healthcare professionals and associates be excluded from the employment ban for the next two years, especially when it comes to how many young doctors and medical technicians are on the National Employment Service records at this point. Especially if it is known how many young doctors and medical technicians from this country have gone to Germany and other Western European countries, and especially if it is in the light of the fact that Serbia's education system will also provide medical staff in the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29068	Mr. Nenad Popovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29069	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, there are a lot of questions and I would like to associate with this amendment and the previous amendments and what we're going to talk about, but since we're discussing a set of economic laws, things are connected. I'd like to say, when we talk about savings, it's always a matter of economic development, but I'd like to mention this and link it to increasing VAT to computers and computer equipment, from 8% to 20%. It's an increase, if we look at it that way, 150 percent. The budget's total revenue structure for next year is around 46%. The budget is expected to lower around 460 billion dinars, an increase of 25.6 billion compared to the 2013 rebalance. As I was saying in principle, and these things are connected, I think the planned revenues will subvert, because it is impossible to achieve this increase in revenue in the budget, if surely in the economy it will be minimally the same or worse. The special theme is to increase the lowest VAT rate from 8% to 10% for basic life supplies and medicines, because it affects the most sensitive part of the population. In 2013, we had a trade decline of about 8%. It was realistic to assume that this would be reduced, i.e. to increase the decline in traffic, and on the other hand, I would like to repeat what I was saying, as of January 1st, we have a full liberalisation of agricultural products and I think this will lead to an increase in prices. I don't see a way to keep basic food prices at the same level after VAT increases, but it's usually known from practice that in stores, prices, except for that percentage, go up by some percentage. That's where we get the key problem. As I was saying in principle, we had a tax drop, or VAT after the rate increased, when it increased from 18% to 20%. I spoke at the same place in the Assembly and predicted that an increase in VAT in the economic crisis, usually in 90% of cases, does not lead to an increase in collection, but only partially. Very often, due to the decline in economic activity on the one hand, there is a reduction in the charge, and on the other hand due to the spread of the grey economy, which today, according to some estimates, is likely to reach up to 30% of GDP. At this point, it would be more logical to dissipate the economy, not to raise taxes. Of course, as I said several times, we have to look for a way to make that innovative jump and where we can make it. We don't have oil, gas, raw materials, it's hard at the moment when the building stopped everywhere in Europe and that's why the prices fell on steel, why is there no buyer for "The Iron"? There is no buyer for "The Iron" and there will probably not be one year, two or three, until the economy takes place throughout Europe until the construction industry starts. As long as the construction industry is down, there won't be any need for steel. At this point, an innovative jump can be made where services are, and above all in Serbia, it is the IT industry. Serbia has extraordinary IT and electrical engineering engineers, and these are really guys who work all over the world. I know dozens of guys, they sit at home, they work for foreign companies, they make money that way, they're great programmers. It's a place where we can really make an innovative jump, because we don't have much space, we don't have three or four years, because Europe is in recession, and we and this is an area where we can motivate others to work here. Now, most kindly, I'm asking you to think about this one more time so that it doesn't increase taxes in the IT industry, because that's something that would make it possible for these young guys, and that's youth, and that's really that flight. We don't have much room for an innovative jump, and here we have it, so think about accepting our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29070	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovana Joksimovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic and Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29071	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the provisions of this law should not apply to local self-governments that have fewer employees than the maximum number prescribed by law. I hope that when you hear the arguments, you will adopt this amendment. I will mention that there are 170 municipalities, cities and city municipalities in Serbia, each of them on average has at least 20 different bodies, public enterprises institutions, that there are 3.400.00 legal entities. Mr. Minister, the least employees had the city of Belgrade, Novi Sad, the municipalities of Despotovac, Temerin, Senta, Valjevo, Arile, Ivanovica and Indjia. Giving the competent ministry and government to decide on the basis of a government act to which local self-government and, in which case, to authorise the employment of workers, unless it exceeds the number of employees, prescribed laws, would constitute a violation of the right to local self-government. This represents a clear suspension of the constitutional rights of local self-government to independently prescribe the regulation and jurisdiction of its bodies and public services. The competent ministry and the government body will not be able to respond in good time to the demands of local self-government, thus questioning their work, while at the same time there is no reason to prevent workers from entering the working relationship in those local self-governments that have the number of workers, in the local administration under the number prescribed by the law. We can assume that each of these institutions will at least once a year address a request for consent, and since during the working year, there are 2.880.00 working hours without vacations, it actually means that the government body and the competent ministries will only deal with the requirements of local self-government throughout the year. On the other hand, we know that there is no human resources and organisational possibility for the competent ministry to be realistically and with full attention, to process all submitted requests, which will lead to either not being granted legitimate requests or to justify unwarranted requests. What will happen is that it will not prevent an increase in the number of employees or that local self-government will be put into a situation that cannot perform the most basic functions. In this way, the local self-government system in Serbia will be compromised and services to citizens will be compromised. There's room for corruption to be opened. This law does not stipulate in which cases the government body and the competent ministry must give consent, so it is possible that for reasons of political corruption, consent is not given to municipalities that are not in the favor of the competent ministry and the government's bodies for personal or political reasons. It is therefore necessary to prescribe that this government body cannot prevent local self-governments, which do not have extra employees in the local administration, that they hire workers on their own, regulating the work of their bodies in accordance with the Constitution, if they do not cross the maximum number of workers determined by the Law on the establishment of a maximum number in local self-governments. I remind you, Mr. Minister, once again, that local self-government, according to Article 179. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, independently prescribes the regulation and jurisdiction of their bodies and public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29072	Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29073	Just to be very clear. You are now talking about abolishing the constitutional rights of local self-government, but a law was introduced in 2009 that limits the rights of local self-government in the same way, where we said they couldn't have more employees than four in a thousand. It's just that that logic doesn't hold. We won't, this isn't a repressive measure, this is the measure we want to control the fiscal deficit. That logic, not to me, holds. Also, you assume the bodies of the government, that the government will be unable to implement this. If the government is unable to implement this, I think the result will be the same as it was in respect of these laws, which were adopted in 2009. I guarantee you that the government will not be incompetent, because this depends on us fiscal consolidation, macro-fiscal stability and the economic development of the country itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29074	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29075	Mr. Minister, it is about the system laws that have foreseen the exact and clearly established criteria. It cannot be allowed for a certain government body to do so with awe. We are witnesses in the earlier period, especially in the last two years, that the government selectively applied certain standards according to certain local self-governments. I remember that the former mayor of Leskovec fired as many as 400 people who were surpluses in the local self-government in Leskovec. He had a lot of problems about it. You have an example of good household business in many local self-governments in Serbia. Why would they now be limited to not being able to increase the number of employees themselves, especially in those services that are necessary for the functioning of these municipalities. Ariel's got, I said, a Despot and some more. Here, the Municipality of Žabari, for example, is a good example in Braničev County, which I did not mention. Would they have to address the request of you, if it were some emergency situations related to the functioning of local self-government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29076	Anyone else want a word? (No) The MPs Vesna Kovač and Slavica Saveljic together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with a correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on pension and INVALID Security, in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Mr Bozidar Djelic, Dr Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social inclusion and poverty reduction and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: Mr Bozidar Djelic and together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Miroslav Petkovic. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Your parliamentary group has 20 seconds left from the time of the parliamentary group, and you have two minutes as an amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29077	And 20 minutes. Thank you. Here we are in the legal matter, in what, if the majority, which I have no doubt, votes such a law in two days to all pensioners, more than a million and 700 thousand of them, and I know that not a small number of them are watching tonight, they will see that what they were told during the previous campaign, and especially what they were told, from the mouth of the first vice president of the government, quite the theatre, in that session, which we all watched, where both measures of the government were announced, is that there is one category that is protected, and these are pensioners. Dear and dear pensioners, this amendment erases what will legally affect the further fall of your purchasing power. What are we supposed to do here? The next year's pension is scheduled to be increased by 0.5% in April, then 1% in October, and for 2015 and 2016 to be 0.5% in April and October. In all, your pensions will grow by 3.5%, and the government itself has admitted that inflation will be above 13.8% in that time. You've lost more than 5% of your purchasing power in the last 18 months, and here you're guaranteed to lose an additional 7.3% of your purchasing power. These are statistics that don't mean much, and especially because at the same time in this same package, the government proposes to increase VAT to what no pensioner can do without – bread, milk, zeythin and the rest of the food, communals, whether or not to give up, medicines. I have to say that this is particularly harmful because the government has not predicted any, but not one, measure that can mitigate the effects of these very poor government decisions on the poorest. Thirteen pensions have been abolished and there is no fund on the bulky side of the budget for next year, which could help them. The Democratic Party stands firm against these measures. If the government adopts them, we will in the weeks to come, you will see how, fight them and this regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29078	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29079	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have submitted an amendment to this article, because I really do not see the purpose of amending the Law on PIO itself, because it does not give any effect in 2014. It remains exactly the same in the 2014 part. Zero five percent, 1% pension increase in 2014, as was the previous law. I really don't see the point. We know that the average pension is 25,266 dinars, but this average pension will be increased in April 126 dinars. It's not much of an increase, but maybe it can use something. This number of 25 grand is won by the largest pension of 115 thousand dinars, the lowest pension, the largest number of pensioners receiving, is something over 13,000 dinars. I don't want to talk about agricultural pensions that are over 10,000 dinars. You know, these are really big problems, and we're coming up with a situation where none of these salaries, pensions and taxes are going to be saved, nor are we going to have anything in the budget until we solve the issue of "Serbiagas", "Galenice", reform of the state administration, the banking system in which we had to pump huge funds from the budget, of course, it's not your fault, because of the gray economy, tax evasion, etc. In order for the state to have pensions and salaries, it must collect this from the tax, in order to collect from the tax, it must take all of this from the economy, from the private sector. Now, if we take from the private sector, that economy, we certainly have to give it back to them in some way through a favourable business environment, so that they can work and that we can have the funds for these salaries and pensions, or we have to somehow know all together, whether from the real sector, whether from the public, what we all sacrifice for, what we end up getting at the end. So by which criteria we will know that we are better and when, at what point will we start doing better with these measures that I do not see in this law that I can have effects in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29080	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29081	Just for a little while. I think the argument that it's bad that we changed a law that has effects in 2015 and 2016 has no effect in 2014 simply doesn't stand. We need to think a little longer than 12 months. The second thing, apropo of what you said, if we adopt these laws and this budget and do a great deal of this major reform that we are talking about in the public sector next year in public enterprises, as well as in the rest of the public sector, I deeply believe that since 2015 we will be better, or by the end of 2014, we will see clearly whether we are serious and whether we have implemented what we have said we are going to implement, and with that there will be large, positive reactions both by the investor and domestic businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29082	Thank you. The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29083	I thank you for your response, but I would like to say, of course, we will support all reforms that will bring results and will have effect. I said there was no effect in the sense that for 2014 the same increase, 0.5 and 1% are in the previous law. I didn't see it, and in 2015, we can change it next year. I think that we, what you've been saying about investors, what we've talked about today, in order to start a business, in order to make it go down some way, we have to try to work on some other laws -- the Labour Act, the Planning and Construction Act, and some others, and try to encourage the economy to work, that we can tax it. It's all one cyclical process, going round and round. But I have the impression that we've now frozen one situation where the economy is standing, it's not going forward. In the public sector, we do not employ those we should hire, but as my colleagues have said, to use and quote – we can preserve the situation, although you disagree. We better hire some people there, even if we give them bigger salaries, who are really going to do something, because we're more hurt than those who sit around and do nothing, and they're getting paid, only we're doing damage, and they're, like, they're. who work well and have small wages, they'll be gone soon, because they sure as hell won't stay here to work for such small wages. We have to try to get through these new system laws, you'll agree, once we start with the system laws, not this ad hoc, lex specialis, etc., but really try to set up a system. We will support you in every effort you make to establish a system solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29084	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really appreciate the concern of the applicant of this amendment, but when someone writes one such amendment and comes out with a story about how he cares about pensioners, and he is responsible as a member of the former government for what happened in that period, both with pensioners and employees, because in the strategy of every normal and healthy economy, it is that pensions are paid out of a fund that is not filled with not from the budget, but filled with contributions paid by employees. So why were you not concerned when 400,000 people lost their jobs in the period from 2008 to 2012? Why didn't they take care of the pensioners and the people who lost their jobs? Why didn't they worry about inflation that was even three, four times bigger than this year in 2013? Why didn't they worry when we had a constant decline in gross income? Now, for God's sake, here's more when they don't have to worry, but there's someone else who's more responsible and safer in their business, they're starting to worry. In our people, that is said to be a late mind. There's no other expression. I would ask the chairman to calm the MPs down a little, because I can't get used to it, even if it's SNS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29086	I ask the MPs to allow the speaker to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29087	That's the part that really surprises me. No one is happy about the measures that the government is taking, but let's look at things realistically, if we don't bring them now, the question is, could we do something in 2014 for these pensioners, could we do something for health and education employees? All international financial institutions that have their own interest in the Republic of Serbia are now following what this government is doing. You know that well. If it wasn't for these measures, they'd turn their backs on us and we wouldn't get any loans to pay off other people's debts for the money that was taken, I don't mind what it was taken, but because it was ruined. We're paying you back now. We are forced to tighten the belt and public sector employees have to pay taxes that have not been paid so far, so I see no reason for so much concern from those who led this country from 2008 to 2012, but not in terms of prosperity and development, but in terms of decay, one light, fine decline, that this maltene does not feel. Now someone can talk about how this government is terribly fast in debt, but they will not say that, let's say, Serbia has never had less inflation than this year. He will not say that the smallest foreign trade deficit in 2013 since the existence of the Republic of Serbia. That's not what we're gonna say, that's what we're gonna hide. It's a conjecture of circumstances. It's something that the ministers were lucky. There they were, and we were unhappy, while you were in power. That's what it looks like. You kept getting in the way of something. No problem solved. These measures provided for in the law, in the law passed by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, why did the same government not create conditions for the law to be respected? Why was the last one spent in the 2012 budget of 30 June 2012 and the last one of the debts planned for the whole year? Gentlemen, you from the former regime can say whatever you want. We don't turn reality into oblands. What's happening now is our reality. We don't want to lie to citizens, and we think these laws are going to give certain savings effects, certain investments. You may like it or not, but investments that will heal Serbian finances, which will reduce the pressure on the public sector, on employment. The government's job is, when it's stabilised, to create conditions to get new workers out of the public sector, rather than in the real sector, and then we can talk about raising pensions. I said once today at the beginning of today's session, I also asked Mr. Minister who is here and every future minister who comes to defend the laws, to write the laws in the worst possible option, in the worst possible scenario, and not like those who are now talking about what they would do, and they don't remember what they were doing when they wrote laws that no one could implement, and when they lied about Serbia going the safe way to the better tomorrow. We had a chance to see what their better tomorrow looked like.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29088	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29089	Thank you. You said-- you're your pensioners. Well, it is, we're worried, a big group. You know, we can talk, but the pensioners know very well what their life was. The last time we inherited power from you, these two parties, 24 farmers' pensions were owed. There are so-called. small and so-called A big debt. This huge debt was two and a half pensions, and with great effort, we were able to return it completely around 2007. Do I need to remind you that you gave a voucher for electricity instead of a pension? Do I have to remind you that the news of the day was on the Second Journal of the Public when it was retirement day and that people were coming in at four, five in the morning to make sure they got that pension because they didn't know when they were going to be next? Should I remind you that while you were in power, 4.8 billion euros so-called. Old foreign savings? A good part of this savings was smart and, through a large amount of responsibility, the older citizens kept a little bit of retirement each year, kept for younger generations, good habits. You took all that from them. Yeah, I'm proud of being part of the government that made sure that through these bonds we could get that old foreign currency savings back. A huge number of people who expected something from it got satisfaction and that money was returned to them. Do I need to remind you that you promised the hills and the valleys, and that in this law you specifically tell the pensioners that their pensions will not grow, at best one and a half years later, if you mess up with some reform that they have nothing to do with? It won't be that either... . (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And that they would lose what little purchasing power, and especially you didn't have a minimum of understanding for the poorest and that's what we can't forgive you for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29090	Thank you. Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29091	When someone says something first, they need to know that I've never taken anything in my life or taken anything, and I haven't lied. I don't like those stories, and we're forgetting a very close past. A very close past says that between 2008 and 2012, 400,000 people lost their jobs. That shows the concern of the previous government led by the DS. That's why you lost the election. The pension story? Now you remember to take care of the pensioners? They're not yours, and we don't trust you because you allowed PIO funds to be empty and more and more in debt so they could pay off those pensions. Don't avoid the responsibility of having our financial system completely destroyed. Don't avoid the responsibility that our economy and the real sector are completely broken. Accept that part of your responsibility. When you explain from 30% to 56% of public debt, who made it. Here, we accept responsibility for our 6%, but for those 26%, I would ask my colleague to stand up and say whose government did this task, not to tell some stories that I really believe are amazing that they come out of his mouth, which there is no possibility of that law being implemented into action.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29092	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express one satisfaction with the great concern of the MPs regarding the status of pensioners, but it should be borne in mind that pensioners have been going through various difficulties over the past 10-15 years. I don't think it's right for us to try any of us here to score some points, because pensioners, objectively speaking, and not just pensioners, but all of us also have a very hard time living. What's the point here? They don't ask pensioners for anything more or for them to live better than citizens do. They're not asking for pensioners' privileges, they're asking for their children to be hired, not to have children and grandchildren live away from their pensions. That's the point, and that's the whole problem, please. If we solve the problem for pensioners who support mostly grandchildren and children, at least take that burden off their shoulders, then we'll make life easier for them. It is certain that pensions are small and that they are hard to live on, but this is also true and we need to see that pensions, and this law provides for previous pensions, we have ensured that pensions follow salaries in the public sector. As much as wages in the public sector are increasing, pensions are also increasing. So let's not fool our pensioners now that they need to ask for special status, they're not asking for it, they're just asking for that declared idea to be respected. I think that's what we're providing with this law. Let us not forget what fate was intended for pensioners from 2000 to 2008, where much of the transition needed to be resolved through the shoulders of pensioners. True, it should be acknowledged that in the previous term, debt was paid back to pensioners, that we were able to recover pensions on some decent average compared to earnings and that this was somehow monitored. I'm sure it is, but let's not even ask now that pensioners have some special privilege. In the end, they also got the privilege of not being more than 60,000 taxed. Clearly, there remains a problem with the smallest pensions, pensions that are minimal. As far as I know, this law will be designed to provide assistance and those categories of pensioners. I know it's not decidently indicated, but it's a foreseeable possibility. We, by this law that we should accept, provide, and that is true, that pensions follow wages. In the size of wages, pensions will grow. That is why I ask that in this sense we be correct and objective and that we do not deceive, first of all, pensioners in this regard. It certainly won't improve their standards, but it doesn't improve the standard for other citizens either. We now have to go through an economic crisis that we are in. We must all bear the same burden. The point is, that's how we behave. I think our pensioners understand that well and that they understand the whole situation, no matter how difficult it is for them, and that they find it difficult and that this way, if we can get over this crisis, they'll get better too. I thank you, but I don't think that what's my message is that we're trying to get either of us to profit in some way now, because, objectively speaking, the standard of living is small, that it's difficult, that's true, but also let's not fool the pensioners now that this law or this budget is going to put them in a position of disaster one. On the contrary, this law provides, at the very least, the regularity of pension payments. So it's going to be a regular pension. Sufficient funds are provided and thus certain that pensioners will be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29094	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29095	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, we've been following the same matrix in political conduct for over two years -- fear, panic, cataclysm, there's nothing, reduction, inflation, return in some years, total chaos. The more they tell such a story and the more alarm Serbian citizens in this way, the less confidence they have in Serbian citizens, but not from that dream, from that nightmare to wake up. I'll say it without some theater announcement, but what happened irresponsiblely and culminated in the middle of last year. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, pensioners, the liquidity of the budget that the previous government and the previous regime had left us in the inheritance and in the amannet was for a normal functioning of 15 days. The same ones that are now pulling out their hair because of pensioners' concerns, the pensioners left only half their pensions in the budget. Half a pension. Unlike this Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I am grateful to her, as respected colleagues from the PUPS did, liquidity and all obligations of this country and the Government of the Republic of Serbia were secured by the third quarter of next year. It is a responsibility, not drilling into the chest and announcing something that even the tsunami can't bring to Serbia, and the only tsunami that was in Serbia was with the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, but we survived, thank God.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29096	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29097	You know how? The question is, who takes away fear? I think you're asking the citizens of the Republic of Serbia if they're more afraid for their future today than they were last year. There's no reason to talk to you or me, but I think you'd be surprised. The fear of the future is greater today than ever, especially among the pensioners. I only mentioned a few facts. There's no reason to be angry. Now, you're saying, I understand that PUPS will vote for this bill, and we'll see that we vote soon, in an hour. Nice rhetoric. In the end, we'll see who's gonna vote yes and who's gonna be against it. We will be against the reduction of the purchasing power of all pensioners in the same way, especially because you didn't predict anything that their purchasing power, those the poorest would be protected. You have no proof of that in your budget, nothing for the so-called. Thirteenth Retirement. One more thing, do you really think the pensioners missed that you literally panicked that in May of this year you had to kidnap more than 200m euros from local self-government in the middle of the financial year. So you made a big mess of those public procurements that were launched, projects that were funded, and you said very openly why. It says in numbers, there's no reason to argue, you did it by reducing the incomes of local self-government so you could pay off your pensions. The rate's increased. That's true, that's how you cut the budget this year. You have made it so amateurally that in the middle of this financial year, you, not us, had to take 200m euros in this budget to Leskovac, Kralje, Kruševec, Šapcu, your Vranjska Banja and everyone so you could pay off your pensions. That's the way you run this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29098	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29099	I'll try to speak quietly again, speak plainly, speak to the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, when we have to go back to the past, the 2008 budget was 649 billion dinars. The 2009 budget, which was created by those caring for pensioners, took care of all categories of our society, was projected by 10% increase, as they predicted 10% GDP growth, 5% GDP growth and 5% inflation, and for 2009 projected 719 billion dinars of the budget. Gentlemen, do you know what happened to those great experts who brought the country, not to one normal life but to ruin? Real growth, i.e. GDP decline in 2009, was down 3.5%, inflation 8.1%. What do we do with that? What about the fact that it was that stumbling block for all the accidents and all the state of the country that's happened to us over the past few years? What do we do for that responsibility? Who predicted something like that? What did you burn 10% or over 50 billion dinars in? So we can have a 3.5% drop in social product? So we can have an inflation of 8.1%? Who's responsible for this? Experts, they're going to worry now, holding their heads, announcing cataclysmic announcements, and after someone else hates it, someone else is sowing fear. You've sown that fear with these budget plans and you can't get away from it, because it's facts and not looking at a glass ball, so when something is proved, then we're going with the next lie that's being made.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29100	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29101	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two choices. One choice is to be realistic, to plan the budget realistically and to say realistically that's what we can do towards the pensioners, according to all the socially endangered categories, or another possibility of being as unrealistic as we were 10 years ago, we promised people the house, housing units for free, everything and everything we promised, and then it all came down to 2,500 euros for the elections that are now being prepared for Vozdovac. Let's be realistic and, in that sense, accept real laws, not prepare 2,500 for elections and any promises we don't make afterwards. This is realistic, and in this I fully agree with my PUPS colleague, who says let's see what's real, let's let what we do realistically, let's tell the citizens what's expected next year, and not meet their list of wishes on paper, and finally remain what's now offered to Vozdovac, 2,500 dinars and false illusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29102	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29103	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, but above all, Serbian citizens, dear pensioners, I have a pensioner in my home, my mother, I have a pensioner next door, and I remember how these pensioners survived with a pension of five marks, and I remember who's responsible for the pension of five marks. They're the ones who make the loudest calls to the tsunami today. I'm sorry, by name and name, Mr. Babic, some have not survived your government's tsunami. Not some, but many tsunamis of the 1990s did not survive. No pensioners, no other. I have submitted an amendment to delete the one and two indents, because in 2014 the worst blow to these disastrous economic measures of the Government of Serbia awaited us at the announcements of the first Deputy Prime Minister. Why should the burden of your incompetence be paid by the oldest citizens? Why did those who worked hard their whole lives and invested in pension funds that were robbed for the last term, why do these people today suffer and bear the burden of your incompetence and responsibility? We weren't scaring the citizens, but we were telling them the truth, and the truth is, as always, your false promises will pay the most expensive, those who can't rebel, those who can't get out on the street, those who can't buy drugs when you cut their pensions, those who fear that they'll go to the store or the market with their pension. You know, pensioners, you may have bought five apples today, but since January 1, you will be buying four apples. You'll have to give one up. If there are five or four of you in the house, you will buy, one will eat this government every day. It's the price of those unfulfilled, broken promises by the SNS. It is the price of this ultra-party conflict in the SNS that will be resolved in the January 25th Assembly. This is the division between you trying to cover up and what you don't want to talk about, and you're talking about pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29104	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29105	You take care of your house, take care of the currents, the rivers, the typhoons, these liberating people who left your MP group. Take care of your house and get close to the border of census, you didn't even cross the census in Zajecar because you were looking into someone else's yard. Some things that are about the '90s surprise me, 'cause I see you guys keep calling your fellow SPS. I see there's something bothering you all the time. I didn't see anything that bothered you in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. Then there was hugging, then there was playing basketball just out of interest. So only when you need them. When they don't need them, they're the worst. I see you're closing the door to the SPS, the URS, according to the DSS. You used SNS to Anathetize. Who are you going with? Where are you going? What are you and who are you going to trust more? Leave more to it, make a solution. Give me some suggestions. Dear pensioners and my mother are one of the 100,000 pensioners in Serbia. The previous government left you on half a pension, and she didn't care how or what you'd do. The government has provided liquidity and liquidity for the third quarter of next year. They're not apples. It's life in Serbia. While the SNS is also in this government there will be lives for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29106	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29107	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased with everyone with whom I was in my arms while that hug was firm and sincere, and we have prepared those we embraced to sign the Brussels Agreement, as we prepared you when we gave you our hand and showed you the European way. When we were in the coalition with the SPS together, we held a European course and a socially responsible government, so we increased the pensions 10% in the first year of our government's mandate, and that is what our SPS colleagues and I are proud of. When we were in the coalition together, there was no act, no paper, no document to be ashamed of. You broke them when you were in the coalition with them in the '90s. They're wonderful people, but they couldn't do with the badges. Bad associations have ruined them in those years. That's the problem. You have to understand that. Mr. Babic, we ran a social policy at the time of the biggest crisis. We didn't charge the burden of the crisis over the back of the poorest. We didn't let our pensioners not buy drugs. Is it the social responsibility of the government when patients wait for cytostatics, when the whole state collects money to send children to surgery abroad? Is this the Socially Responsible Government? Is the Socially Responsible Government preparing to fire 60,000 people? You think it's just 60,000 people, so it's not. When you fire the workers "14. October", then they can close all the bakeries next to '14. October’. All privates won't have to work anymore. That's a lot more than 60,000 people. Where will all those people in the private sector work when they have no one to give their services to? They'll go out on the street. It's a socially irresponsible government and it's a problem that you can't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29108	MP Zoran Babic, replica. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29109	This is a fact. In 2008, when you held your partners' pension growth so tightly in Spanish, it was 10% and inflation 12.4. What's that? Fall, gentlemen, real and not what you're always looking at in a glass ball, so you're imagining something. This is what was experienced in 2008, which we have lived through for the last five years. The 400,000 who have lost their jobs are life, not the hatred that you radiate every day from 13% to 26% unemployment. It's Serbia after you, not a glass ball or something you're seeing. Over 60% of GDP is Serbia after you. It's a reality. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? You cannot answer because you have nothing to answer for where you had the chance to make life in Serbia better, you made it worse. Citizens recognized and saw and made a bold decision in the 2012 elections, but also in all elections afterwards. Therefore, do not see anything that will not happen in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29110	National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29111	Ladies and gentlemen, I could understand this if it hadn't been for the last 12 years that the relationship between pensions and salaries had fallen negatively for pensions. It's a condition that's inherited. Those who have eaten jobs should be aware that they have prevented pension payments from the real sector. People have earned their pensions. They're miserable now, and often social aid is bigger than someone's pension. People who worked especially after 2000 expected that there were after changes in which even pensioners were huge efforts to achieve change, they expected the new "democratic power" to provide them with decent pensions and dignified age. However, natural resources did not serve to ensure that people had decent salaries, had available education and health care, and had a dignified age, but naturally created resources served to fill their pockets, as well as their friends who had run the state for 12 years. That's why pensions are so small today, and I'd dare say they're miserable. However, an increase in pensions without an increase in production would lead us to the fact that they are not paid out of real resources, which would make their pensions even more worthless. We are obliged to tell citizens that those who ate 400,000 jobs have thus reduced all pensions by 25%. If these 400,000 jobs were our jobs, the economy would be far more powerful, because mostly lost real-sector jobs, and thus the contributions that were to be poured into the PIO fund were significantly less than what would have been if those 400,000 jobs had not been lost and 400,000 contributions. Of the millions and 700,000 people when you add another 400,000 among the employees, then you can say that the state can also handle an increase in pensions to a significantly greater extent, at least 20 to 25%. However, we have to make up for what was eaten in the previous period, and 400,000 jobs have been eaten, causing pensions to be the lowest possible wage ratio in the last 12 years. Today we listen to sermons all day, people won't forgive us for the mistakes we've made ourselves, and we listen to those who are the most responsible for the difficult lives of pensioners, for the hard lives of the unemployed who have lost their jobs, because in Belgrade we had 200 and some thousand jobs in production, and ten years later we have twenty-thousands of thousands. In all of Serbia, there are currently two hundred and a few thousand people in production, and simply at this moment, at a time like this, unfortunately, these pensions cannot be matched for a larger amount, as this would further lead Serbia into dubiosis. We need to find a way for some new responsibilities, because the country is already over-indebted, so we found it, to invest in production, and to come through production and to get higher salaries and salaries in the administration that is too big for this level of production and this level of economy in one abandoned Serbia and with no system found in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29112	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29113	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, if you're dealing with medicine and you work in the office, then every day you have a patient, these patients are mostly pensioners, because they're the most age and per difolt they're the sickest, then you see how chronologically their collapse goes, how they fail year after year of democratic change on here, so on. democratic change. If you are sitting in an office, then since 2008 you have information from a patient who enters your office and says – Doctor, can a cheaper medicine, please give it cheaper. Then in 2009 you have a situation for patients to come and say – of the three medicines you wrote, I took one. Can we skip one or trade for some cheaper ones? To have a situation in 2010 for patients to start publicly boasting in front of the office how many drugs they skipped, and then you hear through the open door that they couldn't even provide food. The ruin of patients called pensioners began long ago, gentlemen, long before coming to power of this government, 2007, 2008, 2009, when they began to impoverish, to spend the reserves they had on them. Where could they pay their pensions? From sold and robbed factories? Have you recently passed through the valley of the apparitions at the cancer base, to see what the factory "21 looks like. May," what does the record from Rakovica look like? Do you know how many people worked there? Where are these people now, where are their factories now? Did you pass through the Chačan industrial zone, to see that out of 20 factories do not work almost any, or in Kruševec, in "14. October" or in Paris? Who else works and who else produces? Instead of selling products from these factories that produced something called a new value, you sold these factories, you sold your fatherland and your grandfather, something that someone else did, and you took it to sell to live for 15 days or a month and paid for those pensions, and then stopped production. Of course, when the production stopped, no budget charge, no pensions, no nothing. Where's your money, you'll have to prove it to this people. Did you first manage to sell the most profitable factory in this part of the world or Serbia or the Balkans, the Coca-Cola, that people made us profit, that we collect profits? You immediately hurried to sell it to the Greeks or I don't know who else, to sell brewers that work great, but they make profits for some other people, to sell cement stores that provided some independence here, even economically, construction. You immediately sold the most valuable, and you spent the money. Where, with whom, to whom, you'll probably say that one day. So your father-in-law doesn't sell. What that fatherland and fatherland can make is sold, to make a new value. Subsidy, where did the subsidies come from? Who else are you going to take from, and you haven't already taken it from? Who else has the extra money to take from him, to give to someone who's missing? Everyone has a shortage. Or maybe a drug factory? Once our health care was completely independent, the drugs produced by the “Health” Leskovac or “Hemofarm” Vršac factories were very accessible to our people. Now, after years of successful government, after these 12 years of successful government, the owners of these factories are other people. It is likely that someone else, someone else, will become the owner of the Galenika, which you have so maestraly led to destruction. For your information, pensioners taking medicines will pay each medicine from four to six times more expensive than from Galenika. That's where the money the pensioners were supposed to receive. You spent and sold your fatherland in those places, and that's why there's not enough money for pensions. That's why pensions are kept under this kind of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29114	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Milivoevich, on what grounds? (Srdjan Milivojevic: Replica. You have no right to a replica, no one has mentioned you. I can't give you the right, you really didn't mention it. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29115	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, unfortunately, pensions in Serbia are small, so we all agreed, and so low. They don't get paid out of real money. You explained by your proposal for this law that this is a alignment of their growth with the real possibilities of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Well, maybe that's how it's supposed to be. I like that you said you were thinking in the long run, that you made a proposal three years in advance, that in 2015 the pensions increased by 1%, as much as in 2016, from two parts, in April and October, by 0.5%. I'll be very brief. Since you've taken this job seriously, do you have a projection of how many pensioners will receive money in 2015 based on this increase? If today's average pension is 25,000 dinars, that means they'll get 250 dinars in a year, two days. Do you have a projection when the growth of the economy, when it all starts, when you restructure companies, when you fire the directors of public enterprises that receive 10,000 euros in wages and everything else when you reduce, let them know, someone said – and my parents are pensioners, what can my mother expect in 2015 and 2016, how much more pension will she be under this law that none of these will be adopted, probably tonight, in the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29116	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29117	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, above all, I would like to ask, if you would like to introduce order to the Socialist comrades, who should also hear and participate in the debate, as coalition partners, if nothing else. First, I must express one great pleasure for the concern expressed by all the MPs these few days, not just today, not just now, about pensions. I ask myself a question – why did PUPS come about? If such a concern were real and if it were now, the PUPS wouldn't exist, we wouldn't be here right now. That's right. The question is raised here with statements – yes, we increased pensions, and where was PUPS and Dr Jovan Krkobic, where were the PUPS MPs at the time? I can tell you, if it wasn't for us and Dr. Jovan Krkobic, there wouldn't be an increase in pensions. Secondly, I must also express great dissatisfaction with the fact that we do not care enough about other poor citizens of our country. We're just saying, poor pensioners. I'm telling you, they're not poor pensioners. They are dignified and proud and proud of what they have created in this country and therefore should not be humiliated in this way. Today we have 300,000 unsettled children starving, even more families, and we have now caught up with the poor pensioners. We don't accept that. Also, it is very important and important to hold on to a 1,710,452 "vote". That's the basic reason we're talking about pensions today, not because they live badly. Also, a lot of other things have been said here. Today, there have been insults by the MPs of the PUPS, but we will not talk about it tonight, but when these MPs are here in the benches, they will hear, not spill everything here and everything and then run away from the O.R. We'll get that back, we'll talk about it from Sunday, or Monday, when we talk about the budget. Let the MP here say that he's talking about the salaries of MPs, and he's not talking about the fact that one official is costing this country 1,000 pension benefits, and that's what I'm talking about tonight. What kind of relationship is that, then you just leave the O.R. and he's not here. We'll start talking about it on Monday. That's why we don't think we're opening this big debate today, we're saying it's not right the way individuals talked about it, as the facts were. At the very end, let me say, since I am using the time of the parliamentary group, I ask you with great misunderstanding here some MPs speak. I can't agree, one is the pension system, and the other is the fund. We've been here all day hearing about how the fund abuses, embezzlement, and I don't know what it does. We are responsible for the pension-inhabitation system together with the government, because it is a policy, and the Fund is something else, implementing that policy. If there's a problem there, we can solve it easily. We can't agree on that here. I'm convinced, and I'm talking to millions, a million 710,452 pensioners in September of the month, who should be voted for, no matter what anyone in this House stands for. I am convinced that what we have promoted in the last five years, or since we are in parliament, that it is recognizable for pensioners and I am convinced that they will admit it in the right way. We expect a debate in Monday's budget and a debate on who it is and how it has abused the debate in the last four days, Monday, on the Finance Committee, on Tuesday in the principle debate, yesterday at the Finance Committee and today at the plenary session, and to tell him what we think and who's right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29118	Mr. Milivoevich, on what grounds? No, you didn't mention it. It's about someone else's discussion, it's not yours. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcici, together with Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babic, Irena Alexic, Zoran Antic, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagić, Nebojsa Berić, Mr Igor Bečić, Dr Branislav Blažić, Zoran Bojanić, Jelena Budimirović, Katica Vijuk, Irena Vujović, prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić, Maja Gojković, Milovan Drecun, Aleksandra Đurović, Milanko Zivkovic, Stefan Zankov, Biljana Ilic Stošić, Milanka Jevkojičić, Jadranka Joksimović, Bojan Jakovljevic, Milan Jakovljevic, Milan Knezmarton, Dr Milan Knezevic, Radmilo Kostić, Miodrag Linta, Saša Maksimović, Mirjana Marjanović, Vesna Marković, Jelena Mijatović, Dr Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Ljubica Mrdaković, Todorović, Mujo Musa Muković, Dušica Nikolic, Miodrag Nikolic, Dragan Nikolic, Jasmina Obradović, Marija Obradović, Biljana Pantić Pilja, Slobodan Perić, prof. Dr Mileta Poscurica, Zoran Pralica, Tanja Radovanovic, Dr Aleksandar Radojevic, Katarina Rakić, Marijan Risticevic, Radovan Raičević, Vesna Rakonjac, Mile Spirovski, Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Momir Stojanović, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović, Željko Susec, Dragan Todorovic, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Dragan Tomić, Vučeta Tošković, Vladimir Cvian, Dragan Čolić, Srdjan Šajn and Dragan Šormaz. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs of Dusica Morčev, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments together include 65 MPs from the SNS Group. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search by amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in the principles and particulars of the National Assembly, they will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DUVAN LAW You have received amendments submitted by MP Djordje Stojsic to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Finance, Republic budget and public spending control, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle of exaggeration, it is clear to Article 157(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the proposal in particular. National MP Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I won't vote for this amendment, but I still take the opportunity to say that no matter what I vote in the law in general, I don't think this law, and especially this amendment would solve the issue of tobacco smuggling. I welcome the suggestor's intention to smuggle, first of all, raw tobacco, and to God and finished products get in the way. This law primarily makes sure that seed goods are not supplied in black, that producers of raw tobacco are registered, that they have contracts with authorised tobacco processors, that they run the register, etc. As a former tobacco grower, I can tell you that this plant is very easy to abuse. On large surfaces, people sow tobacco and tobacco growers never pick it to the top. So it's very easy to get seeds, and it's very easy and unused, untapped parts of the sheets to take home, dry out, and in a certain way let illegally into the market. Our basic problem was the former finance minister. I delivered his excise policy to you both his and his previous ministers and how they unresonally increased excise duties, especially on the cheapest cigarettes. We've come into a situation where the cheapest cigarettes simply disappear from the market and thus supply themselves at the market. So that part of the cheapest cigarette comes out on the black market. I hope so, and I brought you a table that is perfectly regular and correct and that has since 2008 presented both excise policy and results. Today we are in a position to sell out of last year's billions and 100 million boxes on the regular market we sell barely 720 million boxes. So we lost 400 million boxes from the market. If we don't go back to the old excise policy, unless the cheapest cigarettes are available to the citizens, I'm afraid that only these amendments and additions to the tobacco law will we not be able to fix that market, that is, to prevent tobacco smuggling, because people will continue to manage how they can, given that the excise policy of the former minister has brought a large part of the tobacco into the black market. Of course, I won't vote for this amendment. I will support the law, but as a tobacco grower, as someone who understands cigarettes, as someone who worked from 2000 to 2003 to prevent smuggling, I must say that everything has turned around and that by simply increasing, by abnormally increasing excise duties on the cheapest cigarettes, they pushed that part of the cigarette into the black market and that it will not be prevented until we correct the excise policy I resented and the former minister when we were here fortifying it. Then we came into the situation that last year's 549 million boxes in six months, this year we sell just over 350 million boxes and thus lose over 150 million euros in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29120	Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law and amendments to the Law on the Addition of Values. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the National MPs Vladimir Ilic, Mladjan Dinkić, Master Božidar Djelic, Gordana Komić, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Dr. Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dušica Morčević, Bojana Božanić, Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petković, Dušan Petrovic, Sanja Ceković, Miodrag Djidić, Boško Ristić, Milovan Marković, Nebojša Zelenović, Zlatko Dragosavljevic, Đorđe Stojšić, Milica Vojić, Donka Banković, Srdjan Milivojevic and Teodora Vlahović. You have received reports from the Obera on constitutional issues and legislation and from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment in the same text were submitted by the people: Đorđe Stojsic, together Mr Vladimir Ilic and Mladjan Dinkić, together Mr Bozidar Djelic, Gordana Comić and Prof. Dr Janko Veseinović, together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dušica Morčević, Bojana Božanić, Milan Lapčević and Miroslav Petković and together Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristić, Milovan Marković, Nebojša Zelenović and Zlatko Dragosavljevic. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29121	A moment ago, someone said “Spanish collar. ” Here is the “Spanish collar. ” The previous law degrades salaries and pensions, nailing them so that they are significantly less than inflation, and then adding an increase in VAT on bread, milk, on zetin, on all supplies, on communals, on medicines. Now we should be happy that to the hotel industry, it will increase to 10%, not 20%. It's your social democratic or social maximum. This isn't just socially irresponsible, this is both economic and financial unfounded. It is socially irresponsible, because VAT as a fundamental tax form in European countries, even in ours, has one good quality and one very bad quality. It's a good thing everyone pays her the same way. By the way, the base is very wide. There's one problem with that. Everyone pays VAT the same way. In spite of your salary, pension, if you have a job, you don't have a job, you'll pay the same amount of VAT. Economists and financiers say it's regressive, it's a technical term, but it's a good description of what's going on here. There's no mechanism here. This is both economic and financial. Economically, because you tried this, here's what I'm saying to the regime, you did the same thing last year, and you missed the billion-euro budget. The same thing will happen to you in Serbia, because the rapid production of everything is dropping. Shop, drop 16%, juices 20%, beer 40%, food, and not to mention that you're not going to reach what you wrote in the budget this way either. Give up on this, accept the DS amendment, so the prices don't rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29122	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29123	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, I also spoke in principle about the negative effects that this increase in VAT rates for basic life supplies, for medicines, will bring to the citizens of Serbia, and not so significant effects will not have on the budget of the Republic of Serbia either. You have predicted as an anti-crisis measure to reduce the budget deficit, introduce more taxes on basic life supplies and those higher taxes on computers. It is your estimate that about 20 billion dinars will be poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia on this basis. That's how much our budget deficit should be smaller. We at the DSS think it won't happen for any more reason. In last year's debate, when VAT rose from 18% to 20%, your impact assessment was high again, it didn't come true. At the moment, we believe that the estimated 20 billion dinar effect in the Republic of Serbia's budget will not be achieved nearly for the simple reason that there is an apparent decline in traffic in Serbian trades back several years, especially this year. If you ask a little more questions, you'll hear from the merchants that in the last two or three months, one third of the traffic has dropped and it continues. There is less and less money among citizens, less and less purchases are being made, and even data from economists say that nearly a third of them have moved the sale of food products to fleas and to the gray zone, even in the black zone. We believe that this measure will have a devastating impact on the poorest layer of the population, it's not demagogy. What the ministers were supposed to save in their portfolios, that these are from socially responsible parties who think about the lowest layers of the population, about the increase in basic food tax, they thus refer to this important issue. So, before this measure, you had to warn all your government colleagues, to first reduce their discretionary costs, travel costs, special services, contracted services, and only then go to taxation of the poorest of the population. When we see one measure relating to ministers, elected persons, directors, overpaid agencies, independent, then we can say that this measure is also justified, when we have exhausted all other measures, while the salaries in agencies are 200, 300, 500 thousand dinars, while ministers increase their discretionary costs, this measure is a classic skin scratch from the back of the poorest population. That is why we will not support it, because we believe that the burden of crisis and anti-crisis measures must be in the function of making some kind of justice, not that they are always the poorest, not the most protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29124	The word has Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29125	Your Honor, I believe you're tired, but this isn't a bad, good budget training. I wanted to tell you that, everyone is aware in the country that the necessary victims, the pensioners will not have any higher pensions, will be realistically less, employees of a realistic lower salary and now increasing this rate will, in my opinion, have very limited range in terms of income growth, it is undeniable, but it will have much worse consequences than that fact. It's part of these goods, life supplies, drugs, milk, meat, they'll end up on the black market. That's for sure. We've had experience before, it's all been sold on fleas and on markets, one part of that traffic will come back. More importantly, part of the traffic at a higher rate, the goods of broad consumption, will be substituted by these basic provisions of life. In fact, citizens will not be able to avoid buying drugs and food, but they will reduce the consumption of goods at a higher rate. You'll have a very limited fact of this measure, a one-time growth in income in the first year, but it's going to have an effect, but it's going to disappear completely later on, and we're going to stay at higher rates. What I wanted to tell you more, this measure goes against the tax system reform. The structure of our income tax consists of indirect taxes, VAT and excise taxes with almost 80% of the budget. Direct taxes are all with 20.25% in income structure. That means our tax system is deeply unfair. This is becoming even more unfair because the burden of indirect taxes is increasing, and they are not taxing themselves against the economic strength of the bonds. Here, you were in America. It's below 40% of indirect taxes. That's where income, property is taxed, but we're still far away. I want to tell you that this measure, I fully understand that you couldn't avoid it, but that it wouldn't have a fact. Just to end it, everything would be great, victims of reduced pensions and reduced wages, to achieve economic policy goals, to have economic growth, to reduce debt and to reduce deficits. None of these goals are achieved, and in that sense I find this sacrifice completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29126	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that perception of people changes whether they are in power or opposition, at least some. With us from SNS, that perception is always the same and what we promise, we keep it the way we can and we know it. I agree that this 2% is a very unpopular measure, but I would just like to remind this famous financial magog that in 2001 he introduced a tax on milk, so he introduced a meat tax, so he introduced a tax on bread, so he introduced a tax on agricultural re-promatter, and then he got a famous nickname. At the time, he didn't think of bread, meat, milk, social categories, and since then it's been called a sales tax of goods and services, so he had a 10% and 20% rate. This one was slightly reduced to 5%, so he later raised, and then when they needed their votes cut off the tax, but it was already too late, they lost the election. A financial magnum that introduced tax on use, holding and carrying goods. And cars. Here, and on the “South. ” So that's the tax. Today the car is no longer a status symbol, but part of a normal civilized society, but it was also introduced by taxes. Then he shut it down. Then came the new government. The new government returned all those taxes in 2004, and so on. One question is always asked – and what was the matter with that tax money? And no one, who was in power, will honestly say that we did well, you wouldn't have to pay another 2%, but these want the people to skin off their backs. What category are the persons who lost their jobs from 2008 to 2012? What category should we put them in? In what category should we place employees in enterprises in restructuring that the various governments have not found a strategic partner in 12 years? What category are those workers who had incompetent management to be on the market, whose previous governments paid fat salaries from budgets and taxes and 2% and 6% and 10% and 20%, until the workers did nothing because they were rude, but because their director didn't get them a job? Now we have what we have. This isn't the happiest solution, but somebody tell me what the alternative is, what else would you do? Should we increase our responsibilities? What costs to cut? You know for yourself that the Republic of Serbia's budget has the least discretion in Europe, that most of the budget goes to fixed costs, to go to funds. More than half goes to health care funds and pension insurance. What's left of it is going to pay off the debts that the miracle workers made before. Well, what's left is for the government. I tell you, nice. Please, we won't accept your results. It doesn't occur to us. These are the worst results in Serbia's history. A million unemployed. You don't do ours either. We're proud of the fact that the money is as stable as it is on the market. We're proud of the fact that inflation was less than 4%, which was utopia a year and a half ago. We are proud to have reduced the rate of criminality in society in general, especially in public institutions. We're also proud that the thieves who stole from the stock stores, and everyone was silent, will finally respond to the law. No one rebelled at that time because this society was systematically destroyed. It's no longer anybody's fault that we have to pay the judges who are... (President: Time spent by the parliamentary group. )......................................................................................................... I'm talking about the amendment. Don't worry, we with SNS have plenty of time, and some of the others run quickly and expires. What do we do? No one objected then why the budget pays judges who don't judge, not the judge because... (President: Mr. Arsic, the time of the parliamentary group is up.) I can speak from the time of the parliamentary group. (President: Parliament group time spent, I've been trying to tell you all along. Is the time spent? After the amendment, I'm done. So it's not that problem with 2%, it's the problem of how to do the damage that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic did.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29128	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29129	You know, there's something called a historical distance. Let's see. You're proud of what? To represent a budget where there is no economic growth? You've reduced it from 2% to 1% within two months, and actually when you talk to people from the Ministry of Finance and others, if it's zero, it'll be fine. You're proud you're going to dig up the poorest? Are you proud to be in charge of this nation as you never did in Serbia's history? You add 800m euros to the amendment in 22 days. Are you proud of that? Are you proud to have one full mandate for those of you who will remain after January 25th and this eighth session or what? That every year you'll make sure everyone in this country lives worse, all pensioners, all the employees? You know, it's a very boring history, very stubborn of those facts. I remember well in what state you and your coalition partners left Serbia in 2000 and two and a half pensions that were not paid and destroyed, and under sanctions, no friends, with salaries, pensions that were not paid, and when they were given they had no purchasing power, with the war taxes you left us, with the smuggling of cigarettes and oil on all sides, with three years of child benefits not being paid, the country the poorest in Europe. This is where Serbia was left in the amanet by those who today want to teach us lessons, but the people remember it. As you said yourself, as you yourselves have seen, time is running out quickly, Mr. Arsic. Very soon, a better authority will return, which will lower this tax. I guarantee you today in front of everyone, we'll cut the VAT to this. It will be one of the first measures we will adopt, because it will be socially justified, economically justified and financially correct. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29130	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we may have been the poorest people in 2001, but I'm asking, what kind of people are we now when you've sold the industry, when you've privatized? What kind of people are we now? Are we richer? No, but some around you are richer, not citizens, but out of work. They had at least hope they could work and you took that away from them. We are proud, yes, we have stopped the fall of the people from being even poorer. We're proud to have stopped an increase in unemployment. We're proud of stopping inflation. We're proud to have stopped the fall of the gross product. What are you talking about? After five years, he's positive for the first time. That's a failure for you? You sold 4.5 billion euros from foreign exchange reserves. Your Euro's up 50%. Is that your success? Is that what you're proud of? Don't replace the thesis. Like I said, we carry our cross. Bring yours, too, at last.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29132	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29133	Mr. Arsic, what you're doing on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party is your legitimate right. It's a very slippery field of the past. It's just that we'd have to remember a little bit what that policy is like. Let's see if we don't go back to the '90s, who's the one who glued stickers over the name of Zoran Djindjic and put people suspected of war crimes? What are they talking about today? We have to ask ourselves what was said about the late prime minister and who told him to watch out, because Tito had a leg before he died, too. There's a lot of things, Mr. Arsic. Do not think that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are suddenly, behold, a great victim of collective amnesia. Let me quote Nie again to you no matter what you do, no matter how hard you try, in the end there remains a biography for every man, his works and his works. When the time comes to draw a line, you and we will be judged by people who will be out of this fight, but today we are specifically talking about a financial package that brings nothing good to our citizens. We don't say here that times are ideal. When were they in Serbia's history? We here say one thing much more modestly, which is that your approach in these difficult times is wrong. You tighten, you tax, you don't have an effect. You don't have any development programs, but not one and you're very quick to increase your debt by causing pain to the citizens of the country needlessly, ineffectively, and I'm afraid that if we continue like this we'll have very soon after your assembly maybe some choices. Someone's gonna come and run this funding for us, and that's gonna be bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29134	Thank you. He has the word National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29135	Dear Mrs. Kovac, I'm advertising Article 106, which says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. You are the chairman, and you are in charge of leading the order of what is to be spoken and whether the Rules of Procedure will be respected. We've been listening here all day to a shooting between the two sides that's more guilty, that's more in charge of this country and that's left more desolation. I'm sorry, we can listen for a while, but this really goes beyond any measure of good taste. Let's talk about what's on the agenda, as we MPs from the DSS are all the time in the topic and talk about concrete amendments, not about how much of the debt Boza Djilic has left behind and how much new power has left behind in the last year. The only period when this Serbia is in debt was between 2004 and 2008 by several billion euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29136	Thank you. I couldn't agree more with you, Mr. Lapchev. In that sense, I would ask all the MPs on the agenda. I'm breaking up the line on this subject. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29137	If the MP wishes to speak and advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then let him remain on the advertising of the member to whom he refers, which is - the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, done at the sitting, etc., that I do not list any further. Here, I accept that we of the SNS have violated the Rules of Procedure, but if we're talking about value added tax and mentioning the agency...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29138	Please stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29139	I'm just saying, we're talking about agencies like this advertiser of the Rules of Procedure did, and he forgot that his Prime Minister signed an agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29140	The word is from the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29141	Article 107, dignity. Very short. The truth has been brought out. During our term of office, we were not in charge, but rather, at the Paris Club, we managed to reduce the debt by 66%.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29142	Please don't replicate. Don't use the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure for replicas. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29143	If we can get back on the subject and rise, I'd just like to say that we all realize that this measure is not popular. She's necessary. That's why we took it. I think it's a little irresponsible to use it outside the context of the overall situation we're in, even if we leave aside who it was when he had the chance to stop us from finding ourselves in this situation. It's important that everyone understands and that citizens understand that this doesn't just rise from 8 to 10%, but that's basically the only thing we could have arranged, the last thing we'd want to do. As such, it is not a good measure of what we are going to do to create conditions as soon as possible to reduce VAT in the future is to curb the grey economy and reform the tax administration. That's all I'd like to say in response to the whole controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29144	Thank you. Mr. Lapčević, you can only use the time of the parliamentary group, if you like. The minister answered everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29145	Mr. Minister, just a brief reaction to what you said was unpopular, but the last measure that could have been withdrawn and that there was nothing after this. What if she doesn't make it? Is there after that life? I guess so. It's not the last measure. The last measure would be that you had previously reduced from 201 billion to 194, not to 208, that you denied your fellow ministers discretionary expenses from 87, as far as last year, to 80, and not to 96. When you cut short those who have the most, then you can say – now we're going to introduce a tax bigger and on basic life supplies. Shorten your colleagues, ministers, discretionary expenses, and then hit the poor. I guess that's logical and normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29146	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29147	And as it is, and we cut discretionary expenses, we cut our salaries to the richest. We have also shortened the mandates, i.e. the length of compensation to the people's MPs, ministers and all other elected persons who are out of work. It's not the last measure, I didn't say it was the last measure, but it was the last measure we chose, because it just had to fill the deficit that we would otherwise have had if we hadn't taken these measures. Therefore, it is very clear that we have done everything in that order and to the extent necessary, on the one hand, and on the other hand socially responsible. That's how we did it. Of course, these things that we are doing, the structural reforms we first tackle, in a serious way, especially in the public sector, from public enterprises through the state administration and the rest of the public sector, will create space to be better and to create both a macroeconomic environment and a macro-fiscal environment, which will allow both improvement of business and greater economic growth, which has lagging behind, except this year, in the last five years and conditions for new employment, especially in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29148	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29149	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Minister, you were just saying that this is an unpopular measure, that it's one of the last measures you resorted to, so here's this amendment, if you adopt it, it will just remove that intention of yours, to raise and to carry out that poor measure. In fact, we suggest that you delete this point one where you suggest that VAT rises from 8% to 10%. For the sake of the citizens, I'm going to read about the products that this will apply to, among other things. The VAT will be raised and therefore there will be higher prices of bread, milk, flour, sugar, oil, fruits, vegetables, meat, fish, eggs, cereals, medicines, medical means, textbooks, newspapers, various tickets for sports events, transport, gas, heating etc. So, by raising VAT from 8% to 10%, all these products will be expensive. Who will be affected by these measures? They'll hit all the citizens, but they'll hit the poorest ones the most. Statistics say half of Serbia's average salary is allocated to food, although the subjective experience of all citizens is that they complete that average salary just put on food. So these measures will hit the poorest ones. If we know that unemployment is about 30%, so these people don't get any pay, then it's clear who these measures will hit the most. If we now have a draft budget and we see from that budget that you are reducing transfers to local self-government, and a whole series of social measures have just been transferred to local self-government. So the local self-government won't be able to do the social measures that you're now... They are in charge of some laws earlier, but when you reduce transfer funds, it means that without these social measures and services, they will remain the most vulnerable, elderly, children, direct and indirect users. I don't have time, but I have the numbers. Will these measures really affect budgeting? This is where people talked about it and pointed it out. It is likely that the first few months will increase the inflow into the republican budget, but, as happened in Croatia after several months, these measures no longer produce results, or there is no increase in budgets without the start of production. One more thing I'm going to point out is that by applying the SAA, experts say we'll lose when all the measures come into effect about 20 billion just from customs. Experts also say that this will add to the budget for the 20 billion. What are the citizens of Serbia doing? Serbian citizens practically finance the implementation of the SAA. Some agencies were also mentioned here, so in 2004, the government from 2004 to 2008. I will point out some time from 2004 to 2008, when Vojislav Kostunica was headed by the government. Then the euro was 85 dinars. Public debt compared to GDP was only 30%. That is what economists consider to be a country that is not much in charge and that there is still plenty of space. Today, however, we speak after the government of the previous country, led by Mirko Cvetkovic, and these today led by Ivica Dacic to have a 67% debt of GDP, which belongs to a country that is very in charge. I also remind you of this period because we had a situation that we had a surplus in the budget, so we rebalanced the budget because we had a surplus, not like we now have this deficit ambition in several last budgets. There was still talk of how agencies were founded, etc. I remind those who are talking about the agencies that in the election campaign, there's been talk about the agencies being abolished because they're unnecessary, because they're 130 and something, and what do we have after a year and a half? We have the fact that only a few, seven agencies, even some agencies, and some funds that were dangerous, were abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29150	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29151	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today at midnight on December 6th, you will receive a six-december raider in the form of an increase in VAT. That's what it looks like when some Serbian citizens believe in three dinar bread stories. You remember how the story of bread ended for three dinars. It ended with the bread being gone somewhere. The same people who run the Republic of Serbia today and then led. That's what it looks like. You know, sometimes they say -- no, we're not you, we're somebody else now. It's like having a Shark cow, it gives you three liters of milk and has a genetic potential that can only give you three liters of milk, and then someone changes her name to Belka and expects to give her 20 liters of milk. There's no milk. There is no water and that Sava and Danube that will wash your cheeks in front of Serbian citizens after this. How do you plan to build a Silicon Valley from Serbia with a VAT increase on computers? Not at all. It's just an empty promise. Today, you tried to mask this shame with Thunder. Well, they see Serbian citizens doing what you're doing and you can't fool them. That's enough of that. It's January 25th, your departure. Let's see who passes, who won't, so let's go to the polls with those who pass, whether Toma Nikolic, whether Aca Vukic, we don't care, is just as bad. What can I tell you about the end? Serbia today is the country with the largest share of the black market in the gray economy. 31% of traffic is carried out on the black market. Cars going over the Horgos going to Segedin for food again, just like last time for your last term, except this time there's still gasoline and oil. There are no pots, pots, bottles cooked by two liters, for Serbian citizens to be supplied with fuel. That's what it looks like. We're not voting for this. I asked for a 7% reduction. Whoever cares about the standard of citizens will be seen at midnight, when we vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29152	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's Parliament, Theodora Vlahovic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Mr Bozidar Djelic, Gordana Komic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search of amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Mladjan Dinkić, Mr Vladimir Ilic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Olgica Batić and Aleksandar Senić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs together Mladjan Dinkic and Mr Vladimir Ilic, together Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic and Srdjan Milivojevic, together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević, submitted the first amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29153	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In this package when we say there's only a bad one, there's something wrong where we might be able to understand some of the reasons why you're taking these measures. You haven't found a good idea. But this law, he doesn't even have that kind of explanation. This is nothing caused by a mistake. As it is said in tennis, fortunately so Novak Djokovic rarely does, an forst eror. A mistake he made himself with nothing caused. That's what you're doing here. To bring the citizens of the Republic of Serbia closer. At a time when there is much less investment in the world, even less in Eastern Europe, and very little is going on in the Balkans, and the worst in Serbia, because we are now at the beginning, in the government where you have a minister of economy that goes left, right, and even to London and says we don't need foreign investors. He didn't have to go to London to say that, as he says every day, in Belgrade. The moment the government's previous set decided to raise the company's profit tax to 15%. If someone thought it was just a little bit more let them look at the parallel analysis offered by DS and you'll see that our competitors are. countries that are in competition for investment now have everyone, everyone, a smaller rate. We should not compare ourselves to Germany, to America, but rather to Bosnia, Bulgaria, Montenegro and those who attract the same investors as we at the moment. All of this is decided by the government to lift the only incentive for investment in the form of a tax credit, a reduction in corporate profits, and that in return for the budget, which we will consider on Monday, has no effect for 2014. You'll have to say that because there will be effects later. This is an unnecessary mistake, an auto goal that we can avoid by adopting this amendment. I'm asking you to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29154	Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29155	I would agree with what my predecessor said, it seems to me that of the worst measures proposed by this government, because it is logical and normal that when the country is in crisis and has a major problem with unemployment and a major deficit, then it tries in every way it can, of course, to look at revenue in the budget, to relieve the economy, and to make it as much tax relief as possible so that this economy can create some new value for its activity, new employment, and thus contribute to the greater inflows into the budget. Thus, the elimination of tax reliefs, on the other hand, are some of the pressures on the economy, we will get nothing, or we will get a counterproduct. We'll have fewer employees, we'll have fewer productions in Serbia, you'll have less traffic, less budget inflows. Instead of saving 8.5 billion dinars as foreseen by this bill that it will more blend into the budget, I guarantee there will be an effect below that, minus. Have you heard from tax officials that all they could block from companies in Serbia is that they blocked, that they have no more than one to charge. Drain dry. There's no one left. Half the company is in trouble how to settle their basic needs, and here they have neither tax relief nor investment in fixed assets. If they don't invest in basic funds, how are they going to hire a new employee? We think it's an absolutely bad measure and I'm asking you to think about it or to accept the amendment or to withdraw the full law. Nothing 8.5 billion means for the Republic of Serbia for the budget, and it will do enormous damage. All these measures that will directly affect the economy will leave disastrous consequences for years to come, and in such a difficult state of economy when they have no tax relief yet. There's going to be a closure of one of the companies at a time, and that's certainly none of our business.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29156	Thank you. Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29157	Dear Minister, I really must agree with my colleague Djelic and Lapčević, I think this is a slip. I don't think you've done this consciously. But here, let me explain what you've done. What kind of message you send to small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. You remove one incentive that has no fiscal significance for the budget, has at least no significant contribution to the budget, and you give them a message not to invest. Or that tax credit they had when they invested in equipment, when they invested in business facilities and buildings no longer have. Now that your colleague in the government has joined this, Radulovic, who said foreign investment was a capital nonsense, which suggested that you increase this profit tax 40%, which proposed electricity excises and which announced a reduction in taxes and contributions by a third, so I don't know in a magical way, he made a complete confusion when it comes to foreign investors. So, with this law and what your colleague Radulovic did, Serbia gave a clear sign that she was not interested in investment. Whether you did it consciously or not, I don't know, but I think it's a slip. Here's a chance to withdraw this law, you really won't contribute to that fiscal side, you don't have any income from it. It'll probably be a lack of revenue in the budget. Pull the law, just to encourage domestic small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29158	Anyone else want a word? Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29159	It is interesting to talk about incentives and the bad consequences of this measure when just a year ago in your fiscal package you raised the tax rate from 10% to 15% for profit. On the other hand, I'll give you a few arguments if you can, just so I know you don't have any attention. Our tax rate is in line with the tax rates of countries with approximately the same population and which are as such comparable markets with which we are really competing, such as Slovenia, under Slovenia, below Romania, below the average of Central and Eastern Europe, which is around 15.2%. Our effective rate is significantly lower than 15% because of the relief we have. Furthermore, as far as small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, since you probably know that the incentive for large-scale investment remains, even though it is small and medium-sized enterprises that make these big investments, but assuming that small and medium-sized enterprises do not do so in 2012, we are in 2012, i.e. In 2012, the reform of the quasifiscal tax system made business significantly easier and small and medium-sized enterprises were relieved. Also next year, in what some are criticizing here, we have a new line of Apeks credit that focuses mainly on small and medium-sized enterprises and as such will provide cheap sources of funding. After all, there are significant numerous surveys, and there is one consensus that it is a tax relief, when you have a moderate tax rate, it is not the right way to stimulate investment. You also see this through various surveys that have been done years ago, where it is clear, where both domestic and foreign investors have made it clear that tax rates and tax rates are not those that create the biggest problems, but conditions of business, other conditions of business which we address by changing the Labour Act, by changing different other Laws on Planning and Construction, for example, by discharging tax charges as such. And finally, to be clear, this is another vision, and it's pretty far-fetched for the state, because it's always said to have no effect, it's simple because of the reckoning. The effect is about 22 billion at the annual level, except it will not happen next year but will happen over a number of years, and as such 0.5% of GDP is comparable to the increase in VAT that carry citizens as a burden, so this is a measure that has a significant effect. Although it is not available next year, a measure that is not the main stimulating measure for the development of the economy, a measure that corresponds to some compensatory measures already taken and others to be taken, as regards small and medium-sized enterprises and does not apply to large investments as such. Of course our investments are important.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29160	Mr. Djelic, your exposure is not mentioned at all. The presentation of Vladimir Ilic is mentioned. You should have listened very carefully. Mrs. Tomic, your parliamentary group has no time left. (Alexandra Tomic, from the post: According to the amendment, as authorized, I have time. As authorized, you have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29161	Thank you. As far as this amendment and these laws are concerned, there is something that the minister certainly did not know, which is that this kind of law and legislative proposal should be supported for the reason that small and medium-sized enterprises know very well, whenever they wanted to take the incentive of the state, they always had a tax administration on their necks. Because it is the state that has never liked to give out of the budget and therefore small and medium-sized enterprises will have a much better relationship with the administration of income and therefore the state itself will have much greater benefits. For what? Because next year is not at all a year in which small and medium-sized enterprises will be threatened by these legal solutions. So, the effects of this law are only in 2015 and are thought to have about eight and a half billion dinars in the first quarter. Thus, solutions are not at all harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29162	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic and Srdjan Milivojevic and together by Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević. The word has Božidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29163	I'd rather have the minister here, but, well, he's here all day and we can't, after so many arguments, transfer him and that after so many hours he can't be here all the time. I'd like to repeat a few arguments, and I'm speaking here to those who are preparing to vote a very harmful measure in less than an hour, and we have 55 minutes left. First of all, investments are going down. Secondly, those who fight for investment do not raise taxes, even some have reduced them. Third, there was chaos within the government because you brought in people who disagreed ideologically. Some believe there should be active measures to attract investment, others say they are capital nonsense. Fourthly, it was suspended in the budget, which we will discuss next week, every form of new incentives for job creation. Fifthly, nothing caused nor anything related to this, at this point, respected colleagues, do you know that due to some previous law, those accounts in the blockade lead to the removal of the company's entrepreneurs from the APR. Every day hundreds of our companies not only enter the blockade, but simultaneously hundreds of them disappear. Debts do not disappear, but people are in a situation, I'm going to give you an example of a taxi driver – 8,000 taxi drivers in Belgrade, a difficult situation, at this point about 2,000 of them are gone, it can't work. What are these people going to live on? No one suggests anything, and the APR by automatism, the National Bank puts them into a blockade, automatism erases them, and we're running out of tissue. Last year, it was the sixth and last, a billion euros of all possible loans were withdrawn. In these conditions you offer one such measure. Oh, my God, that's enough. They're exhausted. Give up on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29164	Thank you. Bojana Bozanić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29165	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, the minister repeatedly reiterated that we really want to invest here in the private sector, help small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, as he also said in the paper, talk about changing the business environment in Serbia, adopting new laws, labour laws, planning and construction laws, reforming public enterprises, state administrations, changing the model of funding infrastructure projects such as using the public private partnership model, concessions, when the DSS proposed, it was a long time ago, and all with the aim of doing huge work by domestic companies, to employ domestic labour, that our people were employed, etc. But it's not like that at all. The real situation is that VAT is growing, construction works are falling, that only in 2013 did we feel a fall in construction works of 41%. So these people who were employed in the construction industry didn't have any opportunities. That shows a real situation. We are now continuing to remove tax relief. We increased the profit tax last year, as the minister mentioned, and now we continue to cut tax breaks. I really don't understand how we're going to help the private sector, this real sector, who does this state administration live on and pay their 55% of the salary and pension budget if we don't help that particular economy? In fact, that conclusion that is imposed on me, which is that the government is actually threatening a weak and fragile economy because of the instant fill-up of the budget and thus destabilizing the investment and development entirely. I really ask you to reconsider the amendments precisely to this law and to see that the representatives of the parliamentary groups were indeed complex, though opposition, in response to these proposals of this law, because you will see that the effects of the changes themselves are almost invisible, but that the benefit from tax relief is extremely large. I'm sorry the minister isn't here. Perhaps he would accept these amendments and perhaps remain this law as it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29166	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Mladjan Dinkic and Mr Vladimir Ilic, together Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic and Srdjan Milivojevic and together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Božanić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has Božidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29167	Let me try it from a third angle, because I think it's hard to go, and I think the arguments are blindingly clear. We're not getting anything and we're doing damage in one domain that's getting harder and where this government doesn't have any results and where it's already done, with nothing caused, a large number of mistakes. Stop it. My corner this time will be next. Do we agree that Serbia should develop an economy of knowledge? Do we agree that instead of exporting something that is raw, we should export something that has, should I say that Serbian word, brand? Do we agree? It seems to me that every time we talk about it, we agree. With this change, you end what is unfortunately only recently introduced, and this is a tax incentive to invest in immaterial good. First of all, we're thinking about what's going to be software, stamps, everything that's new value from the knowledge economy. First of all, we think about what the leaders of this regime are always talking about, which is that Mubadal should come and make a chip factory, and it's said that Steve Balmer came and we're going to make some development, so it's said there are great young people. The minister said we wanted to support the voucher capital funds. I say bravo, and that's what we should do. Then why are you killing the knowledge economy at this point without having any budgetary effect? All countries fighting for investment in the knowledge economy have incentives for tax to form a new value. We can't stop it. Give up your bad intentions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29168	The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29169	Dear Presidency, the best economic measure to address the lack of money in the budget and the best measure for better social policy is more money for those most vulnerable is a strong economy. If you, when the situation in your budget is the same as you eat and you have problems with whether you will be able to pay your salaries and pensions, and when you are trespassing, you will also eliminate tax reliefs on the only healthy entities that fill your country's budget, then there is really some kind of logic problem. This country has committed more than 10 billion euros over the past five years, four years of the previous government and a year of yours. Of those 10 billion euros, more than 70% went public spending, in what is spent and never returned. Almost 30% is invested in some investments, about a billion and a half euros for travel infrastructure, for example. and every normal and smart country and smart government takes advantage of this side of borrowing and in general borrowing, to invest that money in some new value, to give their businesses a job, to hire their own locals, and in this way to reverse money and make double profits by hiring the population, by receiving salaries and paying taxes and by making more goods traffic. But what happened? Of the billions and a half of euros we have taken to create highways in Serbia, more than 1.2 billion euros will be taken by foreign companies, as everything that is being built in this country is unfortunately being built by these foreign companies. So much for responsible politics. Let's not talk about the second segment, which is the banks. The most profitable branch of the economy in this country... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... They're banks. They collect 300m euros each year. Why don't we raise the tax on bank transactions so we can reduce the budget deficit?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29170	A member. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to ask to speak to a representative of the government, so I'm asking you to take a break until Mr. Secretary arrives. I proposed an amendment that was scheduled to delay the effect of abolishing the tax credit by one year. Mr. Minister, since you don't know how things work... (Chairman: Please, MPs, just a little quiet. )......................................................................................................... in Serbia, among other things, I want to explain to you how this law will work on small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises will show a lower profit because of this law, which will mean a lower base for taxation, which will mean lower fiscal revenues, and on the other hand, due to small profits, there will be bigger interest in banks and businesses simply will not be able to survive. There are currently 53,000 companies in the blockade. On the other hand, the American Chamber of Commerce addressed us with a request that this law be postponed for a year. Just two sentences from their request to quote you: "This change will have a serious impact on business plans that have already been prepared for 2014. The effective profit tax rate for companies with large investment in equipment and facilities in 2012 was at 5% level, and in two years, with these changes, it increases three times to 15%. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I'll see you in a year, two days, and you'll see that this effect you've predicted since eight billion in 2015... (Chairman:Time. )......................................................................................................... It won't be realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29172	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29173	Thank you, Mr. Senic. I came back to hear it, I heard it on the board yesterday, so it's nothing new, but it's good to be here, so I can answer that. First of all, you have suggested or invited, I'm not sure, that small and medium-sized enterprises should break the law or break the law, that they will show a lower profit. I hope that's not it. Next, you say the American Chamber of Commerce calls. Of course, everyone protects their interests. Everyone's looking to protect their interests. I, unfortunately, am fortunately protecting the interests of the state, and unfortunately I cannot satisfy all other interests here. These are heavy things and heavy measures. They should have been taken before, some of them have been taken before, even in this domain and I, given my function, and this government has no choice but to do this. I agree with you and we agreed yesterday on the Committee that it is not ideal to do this but for next year, given that the investment cycle is very often and longer than a year. Unfortunately, it's the same thing where we don't have a lot of choices, and that's why in October, when we first talked about these measures, which is two months ago, or three months before the end of the year, which is, of course, not enough, but at least less than what you suggested here from that letter, we clearly announced that we would end these investment incentives that don't normally exist elsewhere. After all, what you're saying, hopefully we'll see each other in a year or two and be in a situation, we'll be able to maybe lower some taxes, because we have fewer structural problems, which is why we're working on a smaller structural deficit. That would be my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29174	The word has Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29175	Dear Mr. Minister, I've never called for a violation of the law, I'm just explaining how things work in Serbia. As you didn't know at university, everyone at a certain time, assistants at three years, professors for five years, extraordinary professors for seven years, and that only regular professors are in a permanent working relationship, so I explain to you how the making of financial reports in companies works, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, where it is possible to display one way or another. I'm telling you about the situation, how it works in Serbia. I'd like you, as Minister, to change the work of the tax administration, so that the laws are strictly respected, etc., but I don't think you have the opportunity to do that in such a short time. On the other hand, we did not object when such investments came from the United States and I believe that it was not only their interest, but Serbia's interest to be the biggest investor in Serbia and to bring the most investment. I think it's fair to those who invested the most in Serbia, to say that some rule won't apply in a year, not 25 or 28 days, because simply people aren't ready for it. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29176	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29177	Thank you. Just to be very clear. This is in the interest of those businessmen who invested here, because no one is in the interest of the state going bankrupt. That's why we've taken these measures and we've been thinking long-term, like we're going to go out on a green branch, which takes us three to four years, completely down public debt, going down, taking into account the whole situation, and that's why we've been forced to do this. I've had some conversations with businessmen, and in that domain, although it's harmful, or it's going to harm, raising VAT citizens, this measure is going to harm individual economic operators, but also everyone collectively, who participates in Serbia's economy, in fact, all of this is in favour. The only way to actually put things where they should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29178	The 4th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic and Srdjan Milivojevic and together by Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29179	This is the fourth and last time I've called this case and I know everyone here is tired, but we've got an increase. You say, "See you in a year, in two, in three, and we will see if we are in theory right." Mr. Minister, in the past three months, you've had an increase from 20 to 53,000 economic operators in the blockade. Mr. Minister, you have every week hundreds of companies that have been wiped out of the APR by the automation of some other law you're not talking about here. Mr. Minister, the banks just told us that the non-chargeable claims are officially 30%, and in fact in many banks more than 50%. So in the manufacturing sector, we don't have the right to make a mistake. This law is a mistake, especially because it has no effect next year. He needs to be pulled. It directly targets the knowledge economy, because there are only incentives for what appears to be a brand and not a material benefit, and only if they have all the other countries, you buy it. Let me just tell you the honourable MPs, a lot of what we talked about today, and I just got the information, since it's been said that all this is well done, a competition for 12 new jobs has been called today in Uzic. That's it. So, all of these measures, including this one, is my colleague Senic's administration, you'll see how people will show less and you'll see that all of these measures are coming in the weather and you're choosing the worst possible instruments, in the IRS, to hit an increase in the lower VAT rates the poorest, and in the economy, where you've made so many gaps with non-style, with contradictory messages, you're removing the only possible incentives we have today for no budgetary benefit. This is bad, give up on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29180	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29181	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the elimination of tax breaks and the increase in taxes to me do not seem to be necessarily encouraging measures for the economy, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. We need to take advantage of the times of crisis, and those in the economic sector above all, to use it to invest, for certain investments, so at least it should. Now they're somehow in a dead end and they have nowhere to turn. I ask you that by accepting these amendments to this law, you let the economy live, because when we look at everything in the light of these laws that we have talked about today, you forbid full employment in the public sector, and the economy will not be able to do because of these proposals and these laws that you are likely to vote on, it will not be able to support absolutely what it currently deals with and the employees it currently has, let alone not talk about any new employment of these finished students. So I'm free to say, since you'll probably, seeing that these in the ruling majority aren't very interested in what I'm talking about right now, I can say freely – students and youngsters and you can be conservative and freeze for two years, because absolutely nowhere you can work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29182	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29183	Mr. Minister, I once again appeal and make a parallel between this law and increasing the VAT rate from 18% to 20%. At that time, estimates were that there would be some new 30 billion dinars from VAT. Experience has shown that we have a larger grey economy and lower tax collection. So, I'll do it again because we have a colleague who doesn't listen and who's stopped her from going home, and I'm in the way of foreign investment. By increasing the VAT tax rate from 18% to 20%, tax collection on additional value has not increased, but it has been reduced and you can conclude through a comparative analysis last year and this year that a major imposition has caused a bad effect on the country's fiscal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29184	Since we have completed the review of the amendments, it concludes the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing Law on the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Irena Alexic, Zoran Antic, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagić, Nebojsa Berić, Mr Igor Bečić, Dr Branislav Blažić, Zoran Bojanić, Jelena Budimirović, Katica Vijuk, Irena Vujović, prim. Dr. Ninoslav Girić, Maja Gojković, Milovan Drecun, Aleksandra Đurović, Milanko Zivković, Stefan Zankov, Biljana Ilic Stošić, Milanka Jevtović Vukojić, Jadranka Joksimović, Bojan Jakovljević, Milan Jakovljevic, Milan Knezmarton, Dr Milan Knezevic, Radmilo Kostić, Miodrag Linta, Saša Maksimović, Mirjana Marjanović, Vesna Marković, Jelena Mijatović, Dr. Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Ljubica Mrdaković, Todorović, Mujo Muša Muković, Dušica Nikolić, Miodrag Nikoić, Jasmina Obradović, Marija Obradović, Biljana Pilja, Slobodana Pilić, Prof. Šović Šović Šović Šović, Dr. Mir Žažalić, Radažalić, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radović, Radić, Radić, Radžić, Radžić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to plan 157. paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 65 Serb Progressive Party MPs submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. A group of 65 Serb Progressive Party MPs submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 65 MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, it concludes the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Consensus Social Security, since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle, and since the amendments to the National Assembly have not been submitted to the draft law will be adopted in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure in the voting day to decide on the draft law in general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Payments of State Officials and PUBLICATIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since amendments to the National Assembly have not been submitted to the Bill will be adopted in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure in the voting day to decide on the draft law in general. We move to the 10th point – Proposal for a Law on the Reduction of the Net Arrival of Persons in the Public Sector You have received amendments that were submitted by a group of 60 MPs under the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to plan 157. paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Nada Kolundji, submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 65 SNS MPs submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sinisa Kovacevic and Milan Lapcevic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29185	The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that there should be lower wage expenditure for employees in the state sector, but here is no problem and I don't think the measure has been made the happiest. We have a problem with profit weight, not individual profits. Although we have, of course, the problem with individual earnings, the extremely high ones that I mentioned earlier in today's debate, but we believe that this measure must separate certain categories of people who receive salaries from the state register and cannot treat top experts in various areas, in health care, in education, in culture, with that classical bureaucracy that works in various ministries. We have proposed an amendment that this wage reduction measure does not apply to cultural employees, because it does not matter whether or not we have a handful...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29186	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please. I ask the MPs to listen to me. Gentlemen of the People, I beg you, really, if you have no patience, you'd better take a walk until this is over for two reasons. First, we don't hear a man talking. Stanographer can't catch his words and we've got real problems. I'm really asking you to provide the necessary, to say the quiet, to be heard. Here you go, Mr. Lapcitza. I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You can tell them they'll call before there's a vote, so there's no reason. Anyone who doesn't want to listen doesn't have to sit down. So we suggested that this measure does not apply to cultural employees, believing that culture is something that this nation needs over such difficult times, and we unfortunately don't have too many top artists, too many top experts in various areas, we don't have too many top actors, directors, not to count the others. We propose that the category of people representing the national being of Serbia and trying to preserve their national identity should be exempt from wage limits and not treated, or punished for being top actors, artists, because we have unreasonable costs for those bureaucrats who are unnecessary in various state administrations and administrations.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29188	National MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Gorica Gajic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, submitted an amendment to Article 2. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the motionor accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I am aware that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Mr Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panic and Jovana Joksimovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29189	Dear People's MPs, here's another example on which you can show the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this difficulty is not entirely their difficulty, that what they are asked to do as an additional belt tightening is not something that is required of them alone. Some will say, "This is a symbol." It's a lot more than a symbol. In this amendment, we allow the minister who said it was not normal to receive several salaries to effectively be declared illegal. It's not enough for the minister to volunteer - I'll put it in the budget, my word of honor. I believe he'll respect it, I have no doubt about it. We all know that for a number of very high-quality people, this is the way the elders bend over, that we speak Serbian, so they find another hundred euros, left -- right and so somehow get some money that quality people work in this system. But for those few high-quality people or maybe for a few honest ministers, how many thousands, tens of thousands, and that's going to be more and more. Those who are not there because of quality, but who manage, abuse the system and provide themselves with up to two, three, four, five thousand euros, nothing is caused, and what is more important, nothing is deserved, and from the funds that will provide for the citizens of Serbia, which are required to drop the purchasing power of pensions, to drop the purchasing power of wages, to increase VAT on bread, to increase all of this, and from entrepreneurs from whom this tax incentive is taken away and from which the higher income tax is taken. Therefore, this is a unique moment for the minister where you can be in logic and in agreement with yourself, accept the amendment that you asked for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29190	The People's MP, Nada Kolundji, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Mr Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panic and Jovana Joksimovic put together the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29191	I know it's too late and you're tired, but let me say one thing, of course we'll vote against this law in principle and in particular. Let's help you, if you really want to have effects, because I just said, you don't want to hear the truth, maybe someone doesn't want to listen to us, but listen to the truth, 12 new jobs are scheduled today at all times in Uzica. Thousands of them in Serbia, your measures, they melt like that snow that was temporarily bigger to clean up in Belgrade. Let me tell you, here this amendment suggests one simple thing. You talk to people who are more skilled and you say, we'll tax everything that's more than 60,000 dinars. We're against it. Let me help you out, let's tell you the following, in the last few months, and especially weeks, everyone has managed, almost everyone, those who had more than 60,000 dinars have shared it, especially if you don't accept the amendment that they can't have more pay, they've cut it up nicely and there's no more than 60,000 dinars anywhere. This amendment is that you have the basis for what it was like in September 2013, before they found out the way you wanted to deepen it. Take that, or they'll play you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29192	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29193	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that only representatives of Nikolic's faction, the SNS, who has no Vukic faction, and I would like everyone to hear this amendment, today the citizens of Serbia, struck by lightning, and this thunderstorm, tonight, this thunder strikes teachers, doctors, miners, breadmakers. Today lightning strikes your wallet, and while some here rejoice and laugh at Serbian citizens who will be left without money to pay for drugs, municipal services, while someone is looking forward to the fact that teachers will not be able to meet all their needs, I am solidarity with it, with a layer of our people, and that layer of the population has the right to a decent life. Unfortunately, last time, those who today create economic policy and political reality, in order to get revenge on teachers, passed the University Law, the most embarrassing University Law, to get revenge on journalists, Aleksandar Vukic passed the Information Act. Today you beat them with taxes, because it's a electoral body that doesn't favor you. Of course, those people tend to get their revenge by increasing their taxes. I'm sorry that there are no representatives of this other faction, they at least have a little more understanding for the needs of the citizens, but they probably went to prepare a strategy to clean you up at the Serbian Progressive Party's election assembly on January 25th, and I say, it's incorrect what you're doing. You just cried over the fate of privatisation. Tell that to Alexander Vukic at the party meeting, because he says privatisation is "Henkel", a good privatisation, and your MP just said it was a bad privatisation. In the end, the absurdity of the measure that you state as savings... (President: Time, Mr. Milivoevich. Let's calm them down and we'll stop time, come on, you're not at the party assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29194	Mr. Shane, you don't have time. According to the Rules of Procedure? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: You interrupted me. Time's up. The word has Srdjan Shin, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29195	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Rule of Procedure 170. Indeed, it is an insult to the Assembly and I speak now as a coalition partner, I find myself offended that someone is yelling at the faction of Tome Nikolic, Aleksandra Vukic, or as opposed to what Bojan Pajtic told me one thing and Boris Tadic another. Toma Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic did what they told me and fulfilled. So let's be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29196	The word is made by MP Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29197	Mr. Chairman, somehow constantly when you chair, I have to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure and advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, although I respect you endlessly. I'm advertising Articles 106 and 107. I'll try to be very brief. Everyone who sees conflicts, everyone who sees factions, probably under the impression of all the factions of the Mickeys, the Boriss, the Balshas, these, those factions, I guess they see factions everywhere, and with those factions we'll beat you again. We will surely defeat you and you will not be there. We'll beat you again. We'll beat you with our left hand. By the will of the citizens of Serbia, we will defeat you. That's how I'll wave to you when I come from my Vranjska Banja, and you stay in Krusevec, with the will of the citizens of Serbia. As in Zajecar, you will come with that hatred and with that circus in the National Assembly. Wins anytime and anywhere, you should.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29198	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask you to compare the debate, but this is the National Assembly. We have a vote coming up that will take a certain amount of time, so I ask that we slowly conclude the session, that is, to bring the debate to that level that deserves Parliament. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Your time, as an authorised promoter, is three minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29199	Thank you. For the sake of truth, today it is necessary to say that the ideas we hear from the opposition about how the professors, the doctors are threatened, and that everyone else is not threatened by the crisis that has arisen over the past 10 years and by 15 billion debts, or five more over the next three years, simply doesn't stand. What is important to say is that the amendment of the entire SNS parliamentary group has in some ways reduced the part of the pressure in terms of this solidarity tax, especially for the part relating to the projects, which is very important for the professors and that it is about one part of the goodwill that has shown that we are all going to bear this burden of taxation together, that there is no difference between pensioners, professors, doctors to whom some MPs are persistently trying to show. It just doesn't stand. All together will bear as much weight as anyone can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29200	The People's MP, Nada Kolundji, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, added after Article 3a, was submitted jointly by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic, Nebojsa Zelenović and Zlatko Dragosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added to Article 6a, was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Suzana Grubjesic, Vesna Kovač and Slavica Saveljic. The word has the People's Messenger Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29201	Thank you. By introducing the so-called a solidarity tax of more than 60,000 in the public sector, the government of the Republic of Serbia has defined itself as taxing only people with the highest interest, because anyone else in the public sector, other than highly educated people, has revenues greater than that amount. We believe that economic stability of the country is not achieved by cutting off the skin with the back of professors, doctors and judges because these people are doing the most responsible jobs in the country. If our health care is the worst in Europe, if the entropy system has completely destroyed the education system, if we have, in a very short time, had two failed judicial reforms that cause Serbia today in this area to kneel, I think the last moment to do something together is to stop the process of further degradation of these professions. Unfortunately, the salaries of professors, judges and doctors, in these amounts where they are paid today, are very low. He spoke in the afternoon presentation of Mr Mladjan Dinkic and reminded when these professions were last increased in 2006, which was still in 2006, when he was the finance minister in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. We believe that by introducing additional taxes on the profits of these persons, not only will their social status be compromised, but the reputation and place and role of these professions will be further undermined. That is why the RAS MPs have proposed an amendment asking that solidarity tax be exempt from these professions, so that educational, health workers and professional associates in these areas, judges and prosecutors are not further taxed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29202	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Teodora Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Return Law take away property and notification. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Mr Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Mr Bozidar Djelic submitted to the First Amendment. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29203	Good evening. I think it's very devastating that here at the end of this debate somehow, when it's a little bit enough, we're considering an amendment that needs to ensure that the minimum trust that needs to be restored between us, because when we talk about restitution, we're talking about families that aren't just taken away from property, but very often dignity. No. A small number of them have been punished, captured. Some of them were killed. This law tries to repair deep wounds, some of the deepest in the modern history of our society. I have only one minute and 15 seconds left to tell you that making this bill required not a small amount of courage and the fact that this compensation that you want to postpone for a year, and that you have 150 million euros of money on the Treasury's dedicated account in the NBS, which you can't spend on anything else. It is not true that 20m euros, how much that compensation would cost, will compromise the budget, you added another 800m euros in additional debt in 26 days anyway. There's nothing like 20 million euros to you anymore. Neither the IMF, nor the EU, who welcomed the adoption of this law, will criticise the fact that the compensation goes away. For those who followed the subject, the families wanted a substitution. She, unfortunately, is not possible everywhere and the way we came to some point of balance was that if there were any damages, it would be very fast. It's not true that you have to wait for what's called conversion, to know how much will be possible to pay. We see now, because there are only three months left to submit various demands that the two billion euros will actually be enough. This is a big mistake, a bad signal, not only for these families, but for all those who are considering whether Serbia really, but truly respects human rights and property rights. Vote for this amendment. I think the tone is that it would be wise for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29204	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29205	I just want to underline that no one here has ever thought to abolish the rights defined by the Restitution Act and that we deeply respect the fact that the seized property should be returned. The finance department was looking for some balance point. There was even a proposal to completely eliminate this advance. We've moved it to the point where we can calculate it in an adequate way, when we have the exact basis that will be, that is, the established base that will be defined after all the applications have been filed. This is not just about the correction of the law and the delay until 2015 in these difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29206	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29207	You're not being honest, Minister. The last two sentences were purely contradictions. You've been answering for two minutes to change it because something technically isn't right in this law, and then you said -- let's postpone it in these difficult times, so you admitted to delaying because you don't want to pay what's written in the law to the citizens. Let me tell everyone here again. And how well thought these families would accept compensation as a valid way of correcting, in part, how much, and so much injustice. Money since 2003, and we suggested it in 2003, 5% of the income of every privatisation and some others are on the bill. Dear People's MPs, money cannot be spent on anything but restitution. That would be against the law. I repeat, it won't deepen the deficit in any way. On the contrary, you're going to give the money that's held sterilely today in an account that doesn't receive almost any interest from the Treasury at the NBS, you're going to give it to people who are going to spend that money. Someone's gonna make a lot of money, and in all of it, citizens are gonna have a little more trust and faith in our country's legal system. I can't tell you better how it's possible to say – we want investments, we cut incentives, we want people to live better, we raise taxes, we cut wages? You say -- we want to have a fair system, I don't want to get any more pay. You reject the amendment that makes it possible and finally, with the money you have, that you can't spend on anything else, which if you don't do it will lead to great chills and suspicions and pressure to get the substitution back, you'll see, that introduces a lot of other problems. You stubbornly, without any reason, refuse. I'm afraid this debate, summed up in 10 seconds, shows that there's no real concern here for the citizens. A lot of ignorance, a lot of discrepancies, we'll see how this goes through a few weeks, in a few months. We're very worried.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29208	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29209	My respects, Mr. President. Fellow MPs, we as a political party, together with the DHSS, have been in favour for two decades and we have first passed the law in this House, some kind of Restitution Act since 1992, when we asked that property be returned to churches and monasteries at KIM. He was adopted in this parliament and then returned by the President of the Republic, because he had the right to a suspension veto to re-vote. However, it has never been included in the agenda again. As a party with full credibility to talk about restitution, we will say that the amendment accepted by the Finance Committee, or proposed to the Assembly, is absolutely valid and done in agreement with the Agency for Restitution, as well as in agreement with the leaders of the associations seeking their property. What I'm saying is that in the follow-up to our political action, we're going to advocate changing certain provisions of the law, we're going to have agreements with the Ministry of Justice, we've already been to talks as a Parliament club, and we're going to do everything we can to make sure that natural restitution is done wherever possible and that the possibility of substitution in that law is taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29210	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The representative of the committee's proposal has adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29211	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but above all, the citizens of Serbia, you who have waited 50, 60, 70 years for your grandfather's and your fatherland to return, over whose fate some have cried a little before, will now wait. You will wait for this government to intend, to correct those historical injustices, and this government is made up of those same people who didn't think of these historical injustices, that humiliation, that encroachment of the dignity of our citizens who were disproved by taking property, you never wanted to correct it. It didn't occur to you for last term to return the property to the monasteries and churches in KIM. If you'd done it then, you wouldn't be taking what we've got on the deed if it were ours. You gave Hashim Thaci the land and you consciously did it. So you sold out your grandfather's fatherland, you who weep over the fate of Serbia today, over the fate of your fatherland and your country. I ask you, did your grandfather leave you the Patriarchate, the Boy, the Gricanica? Is that your fatherland? You gave it away. You've changed the Patriarchy for three-ar apartments, and that should be a shame to you. Today, to those people you could return the property to, you won't return it. I call on my friends from the SPO to still vote for this amendment, not to support this shameful law. I invite you to bow your head down and look at the floor, shame on you, because you sold out everything you could sell out, for which millions of citizens died, not throw it at me. (President: Don't talk like that. I understand your haste to deal with each other on January 25, but you won't beat us, not even these people you kidnapped. (President: Time. It's been kidnapped.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29212	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29213	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I simply have to report in just a few minutes to explain some things when it comes to the Restitution Act. I am responsibly saying that in this House in the last few years, not that there was no will to pass a fair Law on restitution, but there were no more than 15 to 20 MPs who would vote for it. This means that there are about so many people in this House who want to correct the injustices of the past, who want to finally break up with the communist heritage. I must say that, no matter what my colleague and friend Srdjan Milivojevic had a desire to pass this law, unfortunately, DS MPs have been deaf for years to finally pass this law and be just. I will remind you that several times this proposal has been in the assembly benches, that all the largest parliamentary groups have had the opportunity to pass a fair law, and today we have a law that is not being implemented, because it is precisely why it has been made. It was designed only to fulfill the form of the EU, not to help correct injustice and restore grandfatherhood to those who deserve it and look for it for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29214	Replica, MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29215	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, only the truth works, the DS has proposed and passed this law with its then coalition partners during the term of office of the last government. There are historical facts no one can deny. That's what we did when we finally found the strength and resources to correct the historical injustice. Unfortunately, many of our citizens did not welcome this historic injustice to be corrected. Not many have been welcomed. Those who died, first of all, dreaming of returning their dignity, of returning their civil rights, and only then their property, did they welcome it. I'm sad today. Today is a sad day for Serbia. Today thunder strikes upon the graves of heirs, creators, the most frequent people of this country. Today, people are once again aware that those injustices you did not want to correct during the 1990s, you do not have the strength and capacity to do so either in 2013 and 2014. On the contrary, you simply rest on the fact that injustice is your greatest weapon. You're telling Serbian citizens that that's what your justice looks like, that's what your sense of meaning and sense of correcting historical injustices, that's how you want to reverse the course of history, as someone said. Well, that's not how the wheel of history turns, nor does it stop that swing you were talking about today, which clearly works here at the expense of that civil Serbia, the fair, valuable, the upright, who is in blood, the hard work, the torture and the sweat of her estate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-06-0.u29216	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have carried out a law search in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since we have completed the debate on the first 11 points of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can determine that the day for voting on a bill will be right after the examination of the bill is completed. In accordance with this provision, I determine Friday, 6 December 2013, starting at 22.07 hours as the Day of Voting on the first 11 points of the agenda of this session, i.e.: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Tobacco, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Taxes and Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taxation of Legal Rights, Proposal for an Amendments to the Law on the Recital of Legal Rights, Proposal for an Amendments to the Law on Changes of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of Payments of the State and the Laws of Indemand the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of Intenance of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Personss and of the Personss of the Laws of the Personss of the Laws of the Personss of the Laws, and of the Laws of the Personss of the Laws of the Laws and of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws and of the Persons of the Persons of the Persons of the Persons and of the Persons of the Persons of the Personss of the Personss, and of the Personss of the Personss of the Personss, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BUDGETS SYSTEM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 15 abstentions – there are no, they have not voted – three of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the MPs Vesna Kovac and Slavica Saveljic to Articles 1 and 7, with the correction of Mr Mladjan Dinkic to Article 2, with the correction and amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Article 6. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 141 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Bozidar Djelic submitted to the First Amendment. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 133 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev, Gorica Gajic, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 133 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Theodore Vlahovic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 134 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Mojovic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 127 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovana Joksimovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic and Radoslav Milovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 133, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Siniša Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 142 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Dejan Mihajlov and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 135, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 136 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Lucic submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 134, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Bozidar Djelic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 136, out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 134, out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Milan Lapčević and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 136, out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, the abstentioned, voted 148, out of a total of 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Bozidar Djelic submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodor Vlahovic and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 135, of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Teodor Vlahovic and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 138, out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Kovač and Slavica Saveljic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149, out of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovana Joksimovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic and Radoslav Milovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 out of a total of 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 127, against – 16, the abstentions – there is no, no vote - eight, of a total of 151 people's MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Dear Peoples of Parliament, I was informed by the National Assembly that, by adopting certain amendments, the situation of Article 165 arose. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of these amendments, have led to the need for the committee responsible to submit new amendments agreeing the amendments adopted with the text of the draft law, so that I can set a break of 10 minutes, and ask that the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives be convened immediately, i.e. the necessary amendments, i.e. the report, be submitted. [[after breaks]] We continue our work, dear colleagues. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. If the electronic decision-making system does not work properly, I will ask the professional services to determine the quorum by counting the MPs in the hall. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. You have been presented with amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 128, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 17 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 129, v - five, abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the amendment law and amendments to the Budgetary System Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 128, v - 17, abstentions – there are no, there are no four of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act in general. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting the draft law amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 128, against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, six of the total of the 149 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The MPs Mr Bozidar Djelic and Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the amendment's first amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -18, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 132 of the 150 MPs present. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 133 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 136 out of the total of 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move on to a decision by the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -128, against -12, with abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the total of 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending the law on pension and disability insurance in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 18 abstentions – there are no, two of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 130, against – 17 abstentions – there are no, three of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The MPs of Dusica Morčev, Milan Lapčević and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 139 out of the total of 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the Government's proposal contained in Article 15. The proposal for the law to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", or earlier than the Constitution of a set deadline for which, according to the government's assessment, there are particularly justified reasons. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -129, v - 16, the abstentions – no, five of the total population MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax for citizens in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 130, against – 16, the abstentions – there are no, there are no, there are no, there are no, there are not four of the total 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax for Citizens in general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on tobacco. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft tobacco law to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that -129, v - 15 abstentions - were not voted by six out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. National MP Djordje Stojsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 142 of the totals of the people's MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – 13 abstentions – there is no vote, not 11 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that – 128, against – 16, the abstentions – there are no, six of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the tobacco law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the fifth item of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 19 abstentions – there are no, two of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, the MPs: Đorđe Stojsic, together Mr Vladimir Ilic and Mladjan Dinkić, together Mr Bozidar Djelic, Gordana Comić and Prof. Dr Janko Vesenović, together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dušica Morčević, Bojana Božanić, Milan Lapčević and Miroslav Petković and together Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristić, Milovan Markovic, Nebojša Zelenović and Zlatko Dragosavljevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 136 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Teodora Vlahovic submitted me to the vote of the amendments. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Mr Bozidar Djelic, Gordana Komic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 141 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the Government's proposal contained in Article 3. The bill to bring this law into force the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", or earlier than the constitutionally established deadline for which, according to the government's assessment, there are particularly justified reasons. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 17 abstentions – there are no, five of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the early entry into force of this law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 19, abstentions – there is no, 13 of the 150 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the sixth item of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 19 abstentions – there are no, two of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Mladjan Dinkic and Mr Vladimir Ilic, together Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic and Srdjan Milivojevic and together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic and Srdjan Milivojevic and together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Mladjan Dinkic and Mr Vladimir Ilic, together Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic and Srdjan Milivojevic and together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 132 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Balša Bozovic, Mr Bozidar Djelic and Srdjan Milivojevic and together Dr Nenad Popović, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 19, abstentions – there are no, three of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular in the 7th item of the agenda, and since all amendments submitted to the Bill's proposal have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will be in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the bill of law is decided only in general. Before we move to a decision on the bill in general, the National Assembly must decide on the early entry into force of this law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that - 127, against -14, the abstentions - did not, nine of the 150 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for this law to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. We're moving on to a decision on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that - 128, against – 18, abstentions – no, four of the 150 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law on the basis of the 8th item of the agenda, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will comply with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. Before that, I would like to put the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that - 127, v - 17, abstentions - did not, six of the 150 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for this law to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that - 128, against -16, the abstentions - did not, six of the 150 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle from the 9th point of the agenda, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will comply with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. Before that, I would like to put the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 133, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for this law to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. We're moving on to a decision on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, v - five, abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular on the 10th point of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on reducing the net income of public sector persons in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 129 against – 18, abstentions – there are no, two of the total of the 149 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment groups of 65 MPs of the SNS Group to Article 1 and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Article 2 of the bill. We're moving on to a decision. The People's MP, Nada Kolundji, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – two abstentions – there is no, 136 of the total of 149 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Sinisa Kovacevic and Milan Lapcevic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Popovic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Gorica Gajic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 2. Together, the amendment was submitted by MPs Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panic and Jovana Joksimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 137 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Nada Kolundji, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panic and Jovana Joksimovic submitted the title above Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Nada Kolundji, submitted to the Third Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after Article 3a, was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic, Nebojsa Zelenović and Zlatko Dragosavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 138 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Nada Kolundji, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 140, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 140, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 139 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 6a, was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Suzana Grubjesic, Vesna Kovac and Slavica Saviljic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Teodora Vlahovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 142 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – 13, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 9, of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on reducing the net income of public sector people in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 17 abstentions – there is no, no vote – three of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on reducing the net income of a public sector person. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, from the 11th point of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the return of seized property and compensation in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 16, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – four of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, to Article 1. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Mr Bozidar Djelic submitted to the First Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote – 121 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – three abstentions – no, no – 125, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the law on the return of seized property and compensation in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 15 abstentions – there is no, no vote – four, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Reimbursement of Disposal of Assets and Compensation. On the basis of Article 168(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance of the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, proposed to put it on the agenda of this session of the motion for a decision to elect a MEP OF THE SERBER OF THE National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 15, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I thank all the MPs. We're working on Monday at 10.00 hours.
