ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22838	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Article 107. Mr. President, yesterday's debate began in a very painful way. The biggest culprit for all of this is you. The same way you ended yesterday's session by making it impossible for the president of the LDP to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22839	I can't let you keep talking because you're committing harsh abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, you're a lawyer and you know that a breach of the Rules of Procedure can be sought directly after it has been done or on the day when a session of the National Assembly is held. You're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure over something that happened in yesterday's session. You can't do that on the Rules of Procedure. I can't let you do that. So, I won't let you obstruct the work. I really can't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22840	Mr. President, Article 107. You started work today at 10.45 hours. You scheduled a session at the beginning at 10:00. What did you do for 45 minutes? Is that the decency? Is this the modernization you stand for, making it impossible for a decent, normal and needy debate to develop? It's actually this arrogance, this arrogance and the self-will of the government that you are constantly exhibiting. So there was no need yesterday, as it isn't today, to warn us of this breach of the Rules of Procedure, when you're doing it in the most pointless way. So if you really want one constructive co-operation and one argument conversation, go ahead and do everything in your power to allow it. What happened in those 45 minutes, how late was this session, that the MPs were supposed to wait until it finally started? Is this, Mr. President, such a relationship between the executive and the parliament that is not allowed, which is so common in parliament? I would really like to warn you that this is about the legislative authority here in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22841	I don't think the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been broken. Of course, I will always point out to you when I think you are violating the Rules of Procedure and in such a way you are making an abuse of work, or you are trying to obstruct Parliament's work, because that is my right to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, you have the right to disagree with me and that's democracy in this country. We have two days of proper discussion. We have two days to discuss the government. There was no night session. There was no government choice at four o'clock in the morning. We've got another day's debate. If it's the right thing to do, we'll have a third day's debate, so let's not run away from it. The MPs in this House will be able to discuss the government as much as the Rules of Procedure foresees and there will be no violations. As for the delay, I apologize to the National Assembly for the delay. So I think we should start at 10.00. It's the fault, first of all, of the president of the National Assembly, not the executive authority. I accept that, and you're right about that. We were supposed to burn at 10.00 hours. My apologies to all the MPs. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22842	Mr. President, there's no need for such behavior. (President: Tell me, please, which member has been broken? ) Article 27 has been broken, as I told you. Do you expect us to be your conversators because we're normal or do you think we're not normal? It's not my idea to replicate to Prime Minister Dacic or Deputy Prime Minister Vlada Vukic today, but I wanted to do it yesterday, because I think everyone would benefit from it. You interrupted the session after the Prime Minister's monologue even though you knew very well that I answered the moment he mentioned my name for the replica. All right, I don't think that was good. The people who followed this debate in parliament and the public expected more from this dialogue than they received. Today, MPs Popovic say she hurt the Rules of Procedure because she has no right to replicate, or to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure of something that happened yesterday. Well, she couldn't. You interrupted the session yesterday. She couldn't have done it yesterday. No, that's not according to the Rules of Procedure. If you continue to act like this, you will suffer much more damage than you allow us to talk normally. I'm not worried about you. Why would I take care of you when you don't take care of yourself? I care about this country, because someone is watching this, and based on your gestures, it forms an opinion of both you and me. Here, I don't want to replicate to the Prime Minister Dacic or Vice President Vukic. Here, let them themselves participate in this debate today, let them choose themselves. Do you think that's what they want? Is that what you want, President Dacic?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22843	Time. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22844	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable Ministers and the Ministers' Candidates, it is good that one big job, such as the reshuffle of the Government, ends in this week and that many of the misunderstandings, the misunderstandings that have occurred in recent months in public, will finally be resolved. If the ruling majority is moving into the process of reconstruction without its position being compromised, there is a majority in the Assembly, it is a sign that the ruling majority's policy has turned and that positive one. It is clear and visible in these little over a year, and looks primarily at the breakthrough over European integration and getting a date for the start of negotiations, resolving Kosovo's problems and signing the Brussels Agreement, as well as results in the fight against organised crime and corruption. Of course, that's not enough yet. There's a lot of areas where a turnaround has to be made. The improvement and total change in the current situation and current policies, these are the reform procedures needed by current Serbia, which have always been delayed for some other times, which are painful and often affecting the interests of many groups and even those who have created Serbia's political reality so far. Often your procedures aren't popular. They do not make political points, and that is why the political majority have previously avoided implementing certain reforms. The area that requires fundamental reforms and changes is economic policy. It is clear that there is no consistent economic policy in Serbia that is long-term and that accumulated problems are being solved. Most of the time, these are short-term measures that temporarily provide an illusion that something is being solved, e.g. The bankruptcy of the state has been prevented, but much bigger bills come to collect later, and the crisis is bigger and deeper. In discussions on economic policy, four words dominate: unemployment, external debt, budget deficit, savings. Experts, and Serbia has many, put external debt first, and it is 19 billion euros and is not small. Then the budget deficit, and it now stands at 6.5% of the gross social product, and inevitably follows that it must be saved or, euphemistically speaking, the belt must be tightened. The main thing is the economy, and as a result, unemployment is a dramatic 24.2% with a tendency to continue growth, and in this respect, young people are especially young people up to 30 years old, and 50% of them do not have jobs. It's mostly a young and educated group. When the word "saving" is mentioned, the public sector is immediately considered, i.e. on salaries and pensions. As a rule, teachers, professors, doctors, underpaid and demoted officials and natural pensioners suffer. So those powerless who barely survive. Which is even more tragic than these small and insufficient incomes and wages support their unemployed children and grandchildren. Therefore, it is not the real issue of reducing or freezing wages and pensions, but the real question is how to create new jobs and fast employment. The results will be visible in the short term, because by releasing the burden of supporting working young people, the height of wages and pensions will not come first. Of course, opening new jobs, they need huge resources, the answer to that question also exists. The faster and more efficient to create an environment for attracting foreign direct investment, reducing long and unnecessary bureaucratic procedures, then, not borrowing and investing in areas where Serbia has comparative advantages, including agriculture, infrastructure, energy, saving restrictions. So just maintaining the status quo, still poverty, but the poor, the wealth of the rich, further borrowing and ultimately bankruptcy. Banks are the best passers-by in Serbia. They're making the biggest profits, and they're usually in constant possession. The question arises why is no production profitable, and we have our own raw materials, cheap and quality workforce? One of the reasons is expensive loans that manufacturers must take from these banks where the interest rate is up to 8.5%. With such interest hard which our product can be competitive. Why doesn't the state create funds and stimulate those productions that are sustainable and belong to the so-called ". The real sector? In this way, products that can be exported and yet another important goal will be created, jobs will already be preserved in small and medium-sized enterprises. These problems are constantly being suggested by business associations, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. There's no need to talk about the gray economy, big taxes, basic taxes and taxes. Because a lot of things have already been said, but it's a little bit done. Often, a breakthrough in an area requires little to do and results can be quickly visible. I have to use one metaphor, which will be understandable to a young colleague, a candidate for the finance minister. The economy in Serbia is a complex differential equation that has many beginners of conditions and limitations. In finding solutions between bad, good and optimal, bad solutions are most often chosen. Robbery privatisation, losing 500,000 jobs, destroying production where we had comparative advantages and giving in to foreigners. However, in general for Serbia and most of its citizens, these were poor economic solutions, but for the creators of these policies were optimal solutions because they were enormously rich. This is why the SDPS advocates thorough reforms in the area of economic policy, because mass unemployment destroys our society, and we advocate a society of full employment and allowable inequalities. In the SDPS, we are aware that the shift in economic policy will not be easy or fast and that the results will not be immediately visible. Interestingly, those who make unreal promises always go better in Serbia offer easy solutions, and those who warn about the crisis, denial, hard work, long-term exit from the crisis are not accepted. The harder and deeper the crisis, the easier it is to pass unreal promises. We often have non-consistent policies in solving difficult problems. We're superficial, and if we get into trouble, we'll give up quickly. In general, everything in Serbia seems unfinished, state, borders, legal institutions, roads, simply everything. It seems that's the only way we can function. That is why the SDPS is defined as a new reform policy that will make Serbia a modern European state regardless of all the difficulties and problems that will arise on the road. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the reconstruction of the government and it is fundamental and essential, which is a novelty in Serbia's political life and this is a sign that this ruling coalition is ready to move into fundamental and fundamental reforms in all areas. What does the SDPS expect from ministers in the reconstructed government, both new and those who are here before? We expect to see realistically the situation in the areas for which they are responsible, setting goals that are realistic. In doing so, what EU requirements and standards are for these areas, and what is our reality, and what is to be adapted. The objectives set must be extremely clear, precise and interphase with measurable parameters. On the basis of clear objectives, strategies are set, but action plans must be monitored every day. By taking full responsibility for a particular area, we are aware that the minister is not all-powerful, but is expected to include a wider circle of interested partners, such as trade unions, employers, the academic community, not government organisations in creating a solution. Only in one broader consensus will we come up with the best solutions for many of our problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDPS is very interested in the adoption of laws concerning labour and employment, which are the Labour and Employment Act, the Strike Act, the Social Entrepreneurship Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Publicly, the thesis is often spread that these laws are an obstacle to Serbia's development faster, faster employment and that employees in Serbia are being overprotected. The truth is completely opposite. However, small employee rights are difficult to achieve in an imperfect legal system, and high unemployment simply forces employees to keep jobs at all costs. However, in the new conditions, the SDPS is aware that there must be a change of these laws, but we expect a broader consensus on these issues, particularly unions, employers and other stakeholders in the context of social dialogue. Why is social dialogue avoided, and trade unions and employers are often aside when significant solutions are made in this area? It's better to talk to the unions and come up with acceptable solutions than to have them on the streets. The meetings of the Social-Economic Council at the tripartite level must be, if necessary, on a daily basis, or on a daily basis, because, basically, productive work and employment has been re-developed. It is not an essential question of how to deploy money in the budget, but rather an essential question of how to ensure that the budget is filled with resources from production and services. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's just amazing that for years we can't agree on a seemingly simple thing - who are representative social dialogue participants in the employers' and trade unions? Just look at the solutions with our neighbours or some European countries and get an acceptable solution right away. Given the gravity and depth of our economic crisis, all trade unions and employers should be included in the talks and, of course, they take the greatest responsibility. What is not to say, in order for Serbia to get out of the severe economic crisis, a social contract is needed for all the structures of society and that the consequences of getting out of the crisis are all borne, with the difference that they are the poorest bear the least. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SDPS parliamentary group will give full support to the work of the reconstructed government, with the hope that the first results will be quickly visible, especially in changes in economic policy. In addition to the desire for this reconstructed government to have success in its work, we wish it a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22845	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22846	The Honorable President, present and future members of the government, has already been said, so I will try not to repeat some of the statements of my colleagues, who spoke about it yesterday in the debate, which I must note that at many times has reached the height of their nonsense. At certain times, it was taken down to mere demagogy. We could hear some offensive expressions, but to the most extent, it looked like something that was long known to Serbian citizens, and it is under the category of political divorce. Today I will not speak of any past government, I will not speak of that government before it, nor will I speak of any past governments for any simple reason, for I will leave them where they belong, therefore, in the past. The past just needs to be well watched and looked at as much as possible in order to make the future, and depending on the ability of each of us, make it as clear as possible. It is no secret that the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club supported a large number of government bills. Every time we did that, no matter which one of us was an authorised promoter, we made very clear and decadent the reasons why we defined ourselves to support them. It is also not a secret that the SPO and DHSS MPs' club often came across some negative comments from a certain piece, unfortunately, opposition, to condemn some opposition parliamentary groups, to bid whether we will be in that reconstructed government. Here, for all those unfaithful Toms, we're not, nor have such conversations ever been made. We were opposition, and we will remain the opposition, but as we should, not the opposition in that more than literal meaning, we will criticise only for the sake of criticism, but to contribute whenever possible. Of course, we've encountered an unsupervised relationship. We also encountered certain insults, but there was no courage to carry it out in the plenary room, but the insults were mostly done in the halls of the congregation or in the corners. All of us need to keep in mind that each of us can be insulted by either stronger or weaker. If it offends us stronger, we save ourselves, and if it offends us weaker, we save him. The democratic party of Serbia to the direct insults it has been exposed to did not match the insults. I think the conclusion in what I should have said is you can bring it yourself. After all, the relationship with people, no matter what topics, is a reflection of their own personality. Was it necessary to rebuild the government? Yes, of course it was necessary. It was more than necessary. Could it have been executed during a shorter period of time? I don't know, I'm an opposition MP, so I can't bid on time whether or not she could. Some here have compared it to some kind of birth pain or I don't know what kind of other. I don't think at least such a dictionary, at least for the MPs of the National Assembly, was appropriate. Also, there's been a lot of talk here about whether elections are needed. It has been said for a year since this government was established, whether it will be called in August, whether it will take place in October, perhaps in December, or perhaps next year in spring. I don't know if there will be any new choices for one simple reason – I don't make a decision about it. But usually elections are called upon by those whose choices are not answered. Usually early elections are covered by those who very often like to gamble, and gamblers are very often debtors, and debtors should know that the most important thing is to ignore the trustee's threshold. The Democratic Christian Party of Serbia, of course, was critical in its work, but whenever there was a place for criticism, even more than justified, it explained its criticism. Yesterday, economic policy was mentioned. I'm sorry, but in the last year, but in the last 12 years, it's been a disaster, and since it's been in the hands of one man, I think we're about his character and his work, which is no longer a member of the government, nor will he be a member of the reconstructed government, the Demochrist Party of Serbia has said everything she's had in not a small number of times and in writing and in the form of criminal charges that are in place, at least I hope they're still in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. We haven't voted in favour of that scrimmage budget, we haven't voted for an even worse budget rebalance, nor will we ever vote for what we don't support in the future. It was mentioned here yesterday and the issue of agriculture. Of course, we pointed out the huge problems of agriculture with the changed Minister Knezevic, when we discussed the Rural Development Act, the already mentioned budget, about the said budget rebalancing, pointed to the position of the Serb peasant who is now fully disproved, who is back-broken, broken, whatever you want. We referred to veterinary problems, lack of rabies vaccines. We referred to the poored stock fund and many other topics. We've been putting up with a bunch of amendments. For some reason, the hearing of such a thing, at least for those criticisms we've been making, was not. There was also an affair of aflatoxin. It seems to me, the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. If I ask the question – is today one of those few institutes that can be pointed at the finger of one hand at least by measuring the level of aflatoxin in milk or any other product, it does not have to be milk, be corn or honey, I will tell you – it does not concern you, because it was an affair and it ended in the affair. Target has been reached. Minister Knezevic has been replaced. To be even clearer, it's not exactly for the sake of democracy. We wish Mr. Knezevic every success in his work, whatever he was doing in the future. I just hope that his work won't be media-accompanied, because I think that's primarily the reason he's being replaced. Speaking of agriculture, I think Serbia should finally, that is also the topic for the new agriculture minister, to return to agriculture. Several times, the DHSS and the SPO pointed out that it was a peasant who should be a pillar of Serbian society. Until such a thing happens, and I hope we don't spend years waiting for something like this to happen, I must remind you of what is often forgotten here. We're all peasant children, but the difference between us is in order. We've criticized health care countless times, almost every law in the field of health care. We have pointed out how health systems work far more developed and much better countries than we do. We ran a comparative analysis of health systems with countries in the environment. Has the Ministry of Health heard of our criticism? Not so far, and I hope there will be a future. I think it'll be better if they do. We also pointed out that, even though we've come across this number of criticisms, that health centres directors can't be managed by doctors, you know? They finished medicine, they took the Hippocratic oath, they're here to heal, not manage. So you should leave management to those who know management, for example, to managers. Enlightenment. Here's a very interesting subject. The opposition, as you all know, has proposed an initiative to replace then-Secretary Minister Zarko Obradovic over an affair that has, of course, occurred and has already been known. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Demochrist Party, of course, were the last asked, after they had already placed us in power, and we were never the authorities, so we prove today, and some people find it difficult to admit such a thing. And in the conversation personally with individual opposition colleagues, why, for example, will I not support such a thing? I replied that Minister Obradovic would be removed anyway, so that the Democratic Party of Serbia will not participate in the farsi. Now, if I was psychic, I don't know. But today they must give me the right of those to whom I have already told such a thing. I know it's hard to admit, but it's already their problem. Of course, what the Democratic Party supports and stands out as a bright spot for these years of government work is primarily the fight against crime and corruption. It is something that we will always support, first of all, because this same fight against crime and corruption is one of the programming activities of the Democratic Party of Serbia and has been in the Demochrist programme since the moment it was founded in 1997. Slow privatisations – imagine, 24 loaded. I'm afraid you'll have another three times 24 privatisations. There are so many controversial privatisations in this country that I think their number will exceed triple the amount. Of course, when I mention privatisation, I'll allow myself to be personal. The late doctor Vladan Batic talked about some privatisations when no one was allowed to tell the truth about it. Not only to bring up, but to think he's telling the truth. Of course, some today talk about who should know or remember that the same doctor Vladan Batic was arrested when he spoke about the National Savings. When did this happen? I guess you know, I won't mention the period. Keep going. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the Democratic Party of Serbia, we are not hiding anything, everything is public and transparent with us, has also supported almost every law in the area of justice and, of course, voted for it, not because we felt that these laws were perfection, because perfection does not exist with anyone or in anything, but because we believe that someone's will, someone's effort, sweat, is to be appreciated. First of all, it should be recognised first and finally supported, especially if it contributes to non-consolidation, instability rather than, unfortunately, the restoration of legal certainty and the reintroduction of the rule of law. As for the candidate for ministers, yesterday was auctioned on their biographies, if we got them in time, if we didn't get the time. To be honest, I have some biographies I've read, some I haven't read. Some of the candidates for ministers are personalities, so each of us could monitor their work and their operation, of course, if it was the sphere of his interest. I, for example, have been closely following Mr. Tasovec's work for a year, and I'm very interested, let's say that I'm not. I'm following Philharmonic concerts and in absentia, you know, the call of politicians makes up one who doesn't have a profession of his own, and I don't have a need for that, and I hope you'll be able to agree to as many politicians as possible and that you want them to finally listen to some Philharmonic concert, but also to say that you can persuade them to attend one of the donor evenings when you collect funds for sick children or children distracted in development, as was the case with the elementary school "Anton Skal" when you've made your contribution. Yes, you have dedicated your dedication to the book "Zubina Mechte" and its great work "Partiteur of My Life", which, fortunately, ended up in my hands. Keep going. I have a question for the prime minister. I don't know if you've been handling that Aristotleian that the most stable state in which all men are equal before the law, so for these reasons, you've ignored gender equality and I have nothing against new candidates, but I have to notice what's evident - why there aren't any women among the new 11 candidates for ministers? For the very end, I won't repeat myself, in this country of Serbia, I have to present some young candidates here, with someone I'm generationally close to. You know how, political parties, almost everything, not almost all of them, I'm going to erase this almost, but all of them, call on young people from election to election, from one election campaign, to another election campaign, rarely as they're used, and when they're young educated people, give them a chance to do something, or God forbid, they're offered to take over some responsible work, then in lack of arguments, their youth is respected. Those who give such criticism do not know that their youth is actually their greatest advantage. That is why I am very pleased and will also have the courage to say that, besides Minister Selakovic, as the youngest member of the government so far, he is already "old minister", of course old under the circumstances, the support of the Democratic Party of Serbia will first and foremost provide Mr. Krstic, Mr. Udovic, and of course to all the members of the government, wishing them success in their further work, but also with one observation, that you never mind that the ministerial function is not a privilege, it is also a obligation and as such you must bear and assume absolutely all possible responsibility for all issues, for all issues and for all the problems on which you will be in future and on whose foreheads you will find yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22847	Thank you. Mr. Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22848	Mr. President, the honourable members of the government, the honourable MPs, let's break this wonderful camera atmosphere a little bit. Gentlemen Ministers, gentlemen future ministers, I watched your faces carefully yesterday, and I'm looking at them today. Don't be angry, but I don't see much optimism, but no liveliness. I would ask you to give the citizens of Serbia a smile, because you are part of a winning team, a winning team voted by the assembly majority on the left of me and right of you. Don't pay much attention to the left, or my right. It's the opposition and their voice, here's the smile at Krstic's, it won't make you ministers. They won't give you cold water, they'll give you a charming smile. What surprises me all these days is the tenacity, the waste of time, the energy of the ruling majority to gain the opposition's favor. I will be precise, Dr Vojislav Kostunica said three or four days ago – in the Serbian Parliament we have an essential and formal opposition. He won't be angry, I'll supplement it, we also have our favorite constructive opposition. This is a special invention of the Serbian parliament. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, we seem to have a way of courting our favorite constructive opposition right now. Today I heard Mr. Mijatovic, great exposure, excellent. He pointed to important questions, and I didn't hear the prime minister's answers or the prime minister's joke. So yesterday I heard brilliant answers to questions that came from the ranks of a constructive and popular opposition. Ministers, you account for the work of this parliament, this assembly majority and the citizens of Serbia. When the opposition is not an opposition, when it comes to power, I'm sure some new ministers will sit there, or I may be wrong, or maybe I'm not well-versed, or there are some future coalition, luxurial expectations. Let's get back to the exposés. Good, clear, concrete, and hopefully we'll make it happen. What I would particularly point out, as far as future economy and finance ministers are concerned. In recent days, I have had meetings with representatives of Serbia's strongest trade unions: the independent union of Mr Orbovic, the Union of Independence of Mr Cank and the Confederation of Free Trade Unions. Please listen to me carefully. These meetings have defined some specific attitudes that are very important for a large number of employees. I'm saying them in simple terms. They are that there are no extra employees in Serbia, but a lack of work, that it is cheaper to keep an existing job than to open a new job. Investments yes, but investments that are complementary or fit into the government's new economic policy. In particular, as Mr. Mijatovic pointed out, the social dialogue and the requirement that every right acquired, concerning workers and pensioners, should not be abolished, because, respected friends, once the right is lifted, we will never return it. We are ready to continue our talks on this topic with the new ministers during the next few days. What does it mean there are no extra employees? There are few employees in Serbia anyway. When any minister, when any director of a public company comes and says, "I've brilliantly invented, I have four, five, six very well-paid accountants who advise me, I'll cut costs by firing people, we'll give them severances." Then we ask ourselves: Where shall we send them, and how shall we equip them? Are we going to give them 200 euros a year? Twenty years of work, six thousand euros and we equip a Serbian worker. I agree that he can be equipped and resembles individual MPs. It's enough for six thousand euros to look like them, but it's not enough for him to live. Any proposal that comes from having extra people, that people should be fired must be considered in a different way. Yes, suggest, gentlemen, a new job, find a new job, hire people, give a new vision, give a new economic policy, a policy of economic progress. We don't need empty floscules. We don't need reform stories. It's an empty thing. The call for reforms in Serbia has always been an invitation to a new game. Young, happy boys played with us from the '90s to today. A huge number of smart, smart people have managed to convince them that they're not capable of doing anything, and we have today – what? Experts, well-paid accountants, call experts and an empty register. It's up to you to fill that register, but to fill it up in a way that opens up new jobs. When we talk about investment, I have a different view of it. It is often mentioned casually and arbitraryly, the PUPS says to the Monetary Fund no. That sounds great, I like some MPs from this constructive opposition to repeat, because they are our 13 MPs. They're a lot louder than these MPs. No, we didn't tell the International Monetary Fund, we didn't tell the World Bank. We will tell them - yes, but only if your concept, gentlemen, fits into the concept of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As Mr Orban said in Hungary, Hungary is in the EU. Can we be successful? Of course we can. Three key words of future Serbian politics must be – responsibility, result and courage. We're starting with courage. Yesterday, our prime minister presented an extraordinary dose of courage. It was nice being an opposition. He threw a glove in their face, challenged them to a duel, and instead they left the gym. They had no arguments, no courage. I'm glad, he knows that I'm his sharp critic, because I participated in the campaign together with him and Dragan Markovic, that we've been strutting around Serbia and that we'll keep the promises we said. It's that dose of courage. Responsibility, this is about carrying out responsibility to the top, and I see this government reconstruction as carrying out responsibility to the top. As far as the results are concerned, Mr. Wolfie is ahead of us. Score, score, score. I agree, that's the only criterion. To take advantage of the opportunity, as a modest, silent and inconspicuous man, to say that I am running a large system of 15,000 people and that this system, respected gentlemen, for the first six months, by the balances that have been handed over, has achieved a net profit three times higher than that of last year. From five and a half million euros to 16m euros. Some wonder, they say – how is it possible to make such a profit? Of course, it's a vision of losers, the vision of those who destroyed the Serbian economy. I'm not going to use a bigger word, but we all know very well how luxuriant the expectations of such people are. This system, gentlemen ministers, you will be familiar with the result, this year, Mr. Krstic, will make $40 million net profit. Fifteen thousand people get paid, gets a share of the profits, 13 salaries. Forty million dollars is the fifth part of the money offered by the World Bank. They're offering us 200 million. I was watching a part on TV, and I was a little embarrassed. The man representing the World Bank sat down and so superiorly promised if our respected government fulfilled that, that and that, would give us $200 million. I promise 40. Dusko Bajatovic, if you don't piss him off further, maybe more and three more and you'll have that $200 million. Give it up. I'm talking about the optimism we need. I'm talking about the need to replace a culture of humiliation, which governments in Serbian society, with a culture of hope, that we have people who have vision, who can run. What's important and what I can't leave out today, and as far as the oldest, million and 700,000 pensioners are concerned today, it's Saturday, it's finished "Gyk's iris", there's no football, a wonderful time to be told by some of the key old ones. Don't worry, gentlemen, it doesn't matter who rules as long as this government rules, your pensions will be safe. You did everything you had to do, you paid everything you had to pay in advance and you gave up everything you had to give up. Wait for your pension. They must be regular, they must be safe. I know you've accepted my position that it's important that they monitor the growth of profits in the public sector. For a reasonable man, that's enough. They don't ask their pensions to jump, I don't know how much, but they're looking for elemental dignity. That's what's important to them. The message for public sector employees is clear, which is – demands the prime minister and deputy prime minister. The employee wants social dialogue. That social dialogue is a prerequisite for moving forward. Only by the creative energy of these people, it is the strongest resource, Mr. Minister, human resources is the strongest resource Serbia has and you are part of that resource. This could trigger the Serbian economy. Investments, we're going back to them, interestingly, Greenfield, okay, we're moving off the ice. Is there any investment? No, I don't. Only those who fit your concept of a new economic policy. I heard some interesting things yesterday that got me a little worried. Should a Serbian worker who is 50 years old and works in a factory know English? I'm in favour of the fact that in Serbia it's desirable that you know Serbian. Is that an additional condition? Is that some kind of discrimination? Yes, gentlemen foreign investors, you're welcome. Come in, enter the capital into the concept that we have defined. We guarantee you a return to profits, but respect the essential things that rule in the state of Serbia. Are we going to pay a Serbian worker so little that our production is worth it? Is the Serbian worker worth so little? These are issues that need to be discussed on the Social-Economic Council. Those are key questions and I'm going back to them. If we don't resolve these issues, and if we don't reach a consensus of employees' employers, we won't be able to achieve some things. What's very important to us, as a party that advocates social threats, for those who are retired, for those who will be retired, for those who are unemployed, is to see the exit at the end of the tunnel. They have to feel it practically. When we talk about savings, I realize that things are going off the rails. It's banalizing belt tightening. Of course, we're reasonable people, savings -- where possible. Where it's not - no. We, gentlemen, must here today, as a congregation majority, to define what our concept is – the concept of development or the concept of saving on the burden of the socially endangered. It's an important podium, an important feature that is important to us. As for future members of the government, you deserve a chance. I thank you for your courage to enter the Serbian government at this moment. You're responsible, professional people. It is up to you to show whether you will be the weak Urosi of the Serbian political scene of the 21st century or rare talents. I believe that you are this second and together, as one team, in the next period you can take Serbia on the right path. As far as the PUPS parliamentary group is concerned, we will support this government, which is so normal to do. We will stand by your actions and defend it against the citizens of Serbia. Once again, please respect the ruling majority, respect these SNS MPs, respect the SPS MPs, PUPS, SDPS, the SPS MPs who have also allowed the adoption of the law, JS. That's not hard. It's not hard, it's useful. You can look for the favor of a constructive favorite part of the opposition in the evenings in some more pleasant Belgrade places. Let them do their job. A constructive, favorite opposition will do so, and I'm convinced he'll be able to do it. Of course, you and we face challenges. Is there going to be a choice? On behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, I have an obligation to say that too – we are not afraid of them. Which is why you'd be afraid of someone with a decent and pure idea. We are ready for them, we are ready always and at all times, and I in the public enterprise and the PUPS parliamentary group and in the ministries, to place someone who thinks they are better, more desirable and more constructive. Mr. Minister, I wish you successful work. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22849	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22850	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, MPs, I will try to answer more of the things that Mr Krkobibic has said and probably will not fit into the picture of the overall consensus within the ruling coalition. In fact, I very much respect the business performed by Milan Krkobibić, we only have two other public enterprises that, I would say, are doing their job successfully. In one director there is a non-party personality, there is a director from the SNS, and everything else we would be able to analyze the work. I cannot understand and appreciate the optimism of Mr Krkobibic, and it is highly respected both by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and by the voters in Serbia. I'm just not the type. When we talk about 200 million and how easy it is to get to 200 million euros, I just have to tell you that several public companies can do it. Maybe EMS and Post Office can do one more, so we can raise 200 million in total, but that can't "Serbiagas", because "Serbiagas" already owes 200m euros, and it's not in plus 200m euros. So we need to tell the people what's true, we can love or not love, and it has nothing to do with one party or another. It has to do with what kind of country we live in, what we've been doing over the past few years, and how frankly and openly we're going to talk about our citizens. Second, the English language. You said that workers in a factory in Serbia would have to speak English. If you ask me, I wouldn't mind if there was a course of English everywhere in Serbia and not just English, but other languages. Every day I learn and work in two languages and I have no problem with it and I'm not ashamed to say it. You can even ask the Prime Minister how much I have progressed in one foreign language since I entered the government to this day, and English, of course, speak small, not today. This was not about the factory, this was about Etihad and JAT, where all procedures are in English, where everything you have to do, from the repairers to everything else, you have to do with the knowledge of English. How do you think you work in a modern world airline without knowledge of English? If you think we're going to go to people because a small number of people in Serbia speak English, no, I think we should go to them in such a way that more people learn English, and not only English, but also Russian and German and French and many other languages. Do you know that kids in the Netherlands today, their parents, that's what I'm rarely accused of these "favourable opposition" as you say, we're just going to get to who we're favorite opposition to, because I keep mentioning Protestant ethics, they bring their children Chinese nannies, to speak Chinese, because they're looking into the future, because they're thinking about where the future is, because they want to speak one of the world's most significant languages. Is that what we should be ashamed of? Should we raise what is easiest for the citizens of Serbia? You guys are great, don't get perfect, don't learn anything, don't make any progress anywhere. I won't participate, even though I know what you say people like to hear more than what I'm talking about. As for the story of the favor of the favorite opposition, you may be right that we are all together in a very decent and kind way treating everyone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but that is our obligation. But if you wanted to tell us what their relationship is with us, I don't sit with them in the morning or in the evening, or in the cafes, or in "Fracia", or in Tashmajdan, or in the government, or anywhere else, except when we have some professional obligation or some big business, and we don't hide that job from the citizens of Serbia, but we show it to the public. I never court them, and I never agree with any of them what the course of the session should look like, as it is. As for luxuriously commercial reasons and such a coalition's conclusion in the future, I've listened to the general charges and I know who it was directed to. It couldn't have been sent to anyone but SNS. When you talk about it, I want to tell the citizens, well, you're with them in the coalition today, so you don't have to wait for the future to check it out or not. You've been with them today and for a long time in the coalition, not me, not the SNS. Whoever pleases God, don't use those little tricks for one second to pass something without actually hearing it. How did we tell him that and not really hear it? From now on, I'll answer to everything. I'm going to answer all these pointless tricks, all this nonsense that I have to read in the papers and watch TV every day, that's where Ruzic in football and Karadzic in football crashes SNS and Vukic, and it's known, because they have no evidence and they can't say, but they know who he is. That's how you know who it is. What do you know? I tell you, you don't know. You don't know who we're gonna go to the coalition with or how we're gonna go. We may not need anyone. We may need it. Maybe we'll beg you again. Just don't speak for us, especially if you're already in that position. It's my only request. Otherwise, every respect for your work, for what you've put a great deal of energy into and for what you've brought great optimism into the company you're leading. Finally, as far as two concepts are concerned, which you said was a matter of government choice, whether it would be a concept of savings at the expense of the socially endangered or it would be a developmental government, I am convinced that it must be a government that will save, but not at the expense of the socially endangered, but at the expense of those who have the most, but we will all have to save and a government that will contribute to reducing the level of unemployment and which will contribute to the accelerated and continuous development of Serbia. I'm sorry for saying this, but it's simple because every day you listen to remarks in your account, which have nothing to do with the truth, each of you tells you something, put in one or two sentences, and I didn't want to answer them in that part of the opposition at all. I didn't even want the hardest offense to answer. I haven't been courting them for a moment. I haven't been courting anyone, except I respect people coming out with ideas, not insults, except, excuse me, I respect seeing someone know who's really some Mendelson, and there's no idea, so he's saying anything. That's the kind of relationship I make in my head. People who know, people who read something in life have to respect it. I'm just asking you to try not to present things to the people that are easy. Things are much harder than these people look, especially from the Ministry of Finance and Industry, but everybody else, they'll have to, with your help and with your support to roll up their sleeves and make a better place to live in this country, and that it'll be simple and that we'll be able to do it by saying what we're going to say -- live our unemployment, live it so that in two months of working in any sphere we can live 12 months comfortable, and if we don't like it, then we'll block everything we get and how we get there, we'll stop in front of the government, and we won't move. Do it now, replace us all, it's the easiest. In the end, as far as pensioners are concerned, my parents are retired and I respect your attitude and concern for the pensioners very much. Also, the party I run loves pensioners and I think there are more voters in the pensioners than you or anyone else. So, we simply want to take care of the pensioners, but I don't think that caring about the pensioners is what we're all going to do slowly, slowly or safely die, but it's a concern for the pensioners if we start Serbia and if they can live better and if we can make such conditions happen. I'm sure you agree with that, too, Mr. Krkobic. I am convinced that we will always find a much easier common language with you, only that you show little or equal respect as we show you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22851	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Bojan Djuric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22852	Dear President, Article 106. Rules of Procedure. You've allowed Mr. Krkobic to, I don't know what, insult the entire National Assembly here for 20 minutes. First, ten times, he insulted the government's existing members and future government members, to eventually commend them, and then he began to accuse the opposition of preparing to enter some luxuries. Since Mr. Krkobic boasts that he made a profit of 400% in the Post office of Serbia, then I believe that only that luxuries is on his mind, but I think this debate must be more serious. I don't think, Mr. Vukic, that he meant DS when he talked about something that he felt in his head as a constructive opposition, I think he meant LDP and that he was afraid he couldn't do it the way he could do it by now. It's not you, Mr. Krkobic, representing a million and seven hundred thousand pensioners. You may be a representative of 100,000 pensioners, but there are still a million and six thousand pensioners in this country. You can talk 240 minutes, but there's one simple question. On 30 June 2012, the deadline for the opening of the competition for the director of the PTT Public Enterprise Post Office of Serbia expired. Is this contest called and isn't it called for because you have 12 MPs in the National Assembly and, among other things, the election of a new government depends on you? It's the only important question at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22853	The word has a folk-sent Milan Krkobic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22854	Mr. Wolf, you and I have always spoken frankly and openly, and when there was no conversation with other people, but the last thought was gone. It was always open, directly, clearly, and there are no key or significant differences. It's possible there's a dose of optimism with me that's a little higher. I try to pass it on to the congregation majority and to the government, because I believe things are changing for the better. I respect your efforts and goals, of course. I did not point out by chance – results, results and results. I rarely replicate, almost never. It is true that the competition for the director of public enterprises, for Bajatovic and me is called under the old law and that we are fully appointed in accordance with the law. Mr. Wolf and Mr. Dacic know that my resignation is always on their desk. They called me, and they can solve me at any moment, figuratively speaking, and that's understood. I'll explain. When we talked about the concept of the Post Office taking over Agrobank, Mr. Dacic knows my position on it and knows what the conclusion was. There is no reason, that if there is someone better in this country, if anyone who can make a better result, as far as I'm concerned, it would be a great pleasure for me to give him the position of Director of the Post Office immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22855	Thank you very much. Two minutes 25 seconds, unfortunately I have to take your word, I can't let you, you've already spoken for two and a half minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is time for you two minutes, as well as for every other MP in this National Assembly. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22856	There is still some law here in this country, which does not depend on the interpretation of Mr. Krkobibic. So not everyone who thinks he is better, and there are many better than Mr. Krkobbiæ and in the Serbian Post Offices themselves, can become directors, because no competition is called. I understand that people aren't savages, they can't exactly break into Mr. Krkobic's office, but I assume they want to report to the competition. There's no competition. It was not possible to call any competition under the old law, since the Law on Public Enterprises was so precise, and with the help of the LDP amendment, that it was mandatory to call by 30 June 2013, the competition absolutely in all public undertakings to which the law applies. But let's put aside this kind of form, Mr. Krkobic. I have a problem with you saying that you're going to do something that is directly contrary to the exposé and the government program that you're going to vote for. According to Prime Minister Dacic, "social policy needs to be thrown out of public enterprises because the only objective of the company's economy is profit". You say, "There are no extra workers, there are no job shortages." It doesn't seem to me like a policy that can happen at the same time. And don't worry about that English, if you read a little bit of that senseless paper called "The Voice of the PIO Insurance Fund", you'd see that there are good things there. That's where our pensioners learn how to use computer programs. I think that's very good. And since the citizens of this country are spending money on the issue of such a list, it would be good for you to read something from those newspapers sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22857	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22858	Let me say there's no need to lead the controversy over whether there's going to be savings or development. That was made clear in the election of this government 13 months ago. I repeated yesterday in my exposé because I think it's a false, wrong and harmful dilemma. There can be no economic and financial consolidation without saving, of course. But there can be no getting out of a crisis without development. You know that I have repeatedly criticised the economists of neoliberal orientations who, as the only solution to the crisis, always talk about reducing costs, not increasing revenues. The basic problem in our budget was precisely that failure in our revenue planning. So what we're talking about here, I don't think there's any need to, especially that parties that aren't in power are now taking part in a dialogue on what there is unity in the ruling coalition when it comes to it. There is no need for the LDP to talk about it in this regard, because its position is clear on that. They are a party of liberal orientations, and in any case their views are directly opposed to the PUPS's views. You've said it many times, and that's clear. This country doesn't exist because of pensioners. Also, it can't be spared at the expense of pensioners now, it can only save those who have something to save. If you have an average pension of 15 to 20 grand, actually, yes, but you have the lowest pensions that are somewhere on that level of 15 grand and that's a large number of people, I think half a million people, if I remember correctly. Half a million people receive 15,000 dinars a month, well, 12 grand. So, is there room for saving? That's why we didn't talk here, none of us in the Serbian government were talking about now changing the government's economic policy in terms of a policy that will not take care of development. But on the other hand, there can be no stabilisation of people's living standards without economic development and without saving. Of course how the pension fund works, how the Health Services Fund works, it's now a matter of reform that we have to implement in the next period. So what Mr. Mijatovic and Mr. Krkobibic said about this part of social justice, I am the chairman of the Social-Economic Council. The Social-Economic Council is composed, as you know from government representatives, representatives of representative trade unions and representative employers' associations. That's what we're going to talk about, the members of that council will be, of course, new ministers, we'll talk as you've heard, we've always said, social dialogue means respect, listening to the opinions of all actors, in this case it's the state, because, as you've heard from my exposé, the state should withdraw as much from the economy as possible and have a regulatory role. But, you know, in times of crisis, the state was the only factor that was stabilising and we didn't invent the role of the state. Now I'm going to tell you one thing. Whether DOS when it came to power, his main concept was privatisation. You've privatised almost all the businesses in Serbia. They sold them, let them for nothing, so that now the same people who sold them would have the concept of statehood. Bad privatisation, the state takes possession again. Where's that going? Is that a development strategy? It's not. What did we have in the meantime? Almost a million people who are out of work. Is that the purpose of privatisation? Is that even the goal of the economic policy that the government is supposed to lead? So, of course, anyone can have an opinion. Economists don't have the same opinion on what to do, let alone politicians. What is certainly needed to create a favourable environment, a favourable climate for development in Serbia, for foreign investment in Serbia, and of course to cut unnecessary costs for the state, bureaucracy, to be a public administration reform, a public sector, to be a reform and a pension fund and a health care fund. It's an inevitability that will wait for us in the next period. But, as you've seen, it's not just my position, it's the attitude and the new ministers that are coming. All this in mind and in this moment of social policy, that is, social justice, because Serbia is defined by the Constitution as a legal state and a state of social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22859	Thank you. Replica, first Milan Krkobibic, then Cedomir Jovanovic. (National Ambassador Milan Krkobibić, from town: I give up. Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22860	Mr Dacicu, yesterday on behalf of our parliamentary group spoke for twenty minutes and in those twenty minutes it is really not possible in any way to find any political position of our party that is directed against the interests of society. While your policy and your coalition of Socialists, PUPS and JS, has led to a pension fund breakdown. The 2008 decision to raise the pension by 10% linearly, although we do not have that money, has penetrated the budget for 500m euros for the next four years. Resisting pension fund reform has led you to this, Mr. Dacic, to think today about reforming the pension fund. Mr. Krstic cannot say whether or not he agrees with me because he does not have the right to speak at the session at which we should plead. We lost five years. The only country in the region and Europe that's so late, that resists what they're finally going to do. You know what the problem is? Not that you, thanks to this flirtation that's going to cost us dearly, have gotten a percentage more. For serious effects, it takes 10 years. I won't tell you, Mr. Radulovich, that you're nodding, if you just say so, but the PIO Fund reform, this is where the results come in after ten years. Montenegro did it five years ago. All the serious countries, too. Raised the retirement age, introduced order, even if everything was ideal, we'd have a problem. Old society, average man, almost 50 years old. And why are we tolerating what cannot be tolerated? A mess in the PIO Fund. 25% of pensioners receive financial compensation based on disability pensions every month. Well, that right has been established to protect someone, not to abuse them. At 50, people retire today. We wanted order. Our pledge to reform the pension fund is in the interest of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22861	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22862	... Not the expression of one of our whims, because we are liberals. You can't spend what doesn't exist. If we want to, we have to work. I agree with you that pensions are small and that it is not the solution now to say that 18,000 dinars are pensions from which to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22863	Two minutes and 40 seconds, Mr. Jovanovic. Unfortunately, I can't let you go any further. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22864	Mr. Jovanovic, our policy has not led to a breakdown, but to a neoliberal policy that the market is everything. And not a break in Serbia, but a failure of the economic system and financial system around the world. Where's your market now? Why the country intervened in America, why it intervened the EU, why the countries in Europe intervened, why Austria ruled "Hipo Bank". Why have banks and businesses in Europe been saved? You want to answer me for not having you reformed the pension system when you were in power? Why didn't you do it, who was defending you? We were in opposition, you could do whatever you wanted. On the other hand, pension fund reform, don't make it up like it wasn't done. In this same home, you have extended the working century, multiple times, to the citizens of Serbia. In this same home, you have increased your retirement age. It's been changed the way pensions were determined. Who did that? Did any of us run that ministry? You ran it all. You can't build your policy today to just think pensions are the main problem. Pensions are just the result of everything that's been going on. And a pension fund. Is it normal for employees and pensioners to be 1:1 in one country? So then answer me how it's possible that nearly a million people were fired from work since 2000. What do you mean, what's the success of your policy? Well, there's no success, it's a disastrous policy for the people of Serbia. Everybody knows that, fire him from work. Excess workers – severance. Everyone knows, sell the company, and then we investigate thieving, and then they get arrested, and then the companies re-emerge. And what did you do? What was the point of that? Robbery? That's what you said, that's what the police need to determine. But when it comes to that, I think our concepts are coming together. And I don't mind if they crash. But that concept of yours has many flaws. Same as this other concept. There's a problem with establishing a sustainable system, but it's an idea that everyone's trying to figure out. It's an idea that is more difficult for modern countries in Western Europe. It's an idea that all U.S. states have a problem with. Well, don't lecture us here that we're reform brakes, so Obama's a communist leader, too, with his ideas. Barack Obama, not his brother. Maybe his brother is closer to you, anyway. By ideas, I mean, by ideas. But anyway, I don't think it's anything wrong, but I think it's a good thing we're taking it this way. We're finally talking about the essence. We're talking about the essence of the society we stand for. We're talking, regardless of whether a party pleads left or right, I have to remind you that in an election campaign, everyone forgets what political orientations are. Everyone wants to, the DS obviously likes to throw too much. I respect you very much, but you have a microphone. Come in nice and let's lead the polemics, so everyone can hear what you're saying. Don't say that. There's no need for that. I, once again tell you as the President of the Assembly has said, this doesn't have to end today, it can continue on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, as long as you want. If you think you have arguments, feel free to take them out. So what if someone didn't want to get away from you? This is the moon, this here to be seen by the people of Serbia. So let the people of Serbia assess whether really those 500,000 pensioners with 12,000 dinars can bear your concept of what you stand for. (National MPs of the DS earn:What concept? You were just talking about avoiding reform, and you know what you consider reform? Your reforms have been visible all these years, privatisation usually at a lower price, with a predetermined buyer who adapts to the procedure, such as Vršački Vineyards, previous privatisation. A customer is set up in advance, and then it's all nice and at a time when only one shows up, it's made by tenders. The price offered is then the only one offered, everything is in accordance with the Law, and eventually the workers are out of work, robbed and robbed in the Kingdom, and there they took from Magnochroma everything, not only fired the workers, but they took the machines and everything, to Gervin, wherever you go in Serbia. Do you know that in southern Serbia, the unemployment rate is more than 50 percent, my people? Today, we've had privatisation, then the workers are out of work, the workers are out on the tracks, on the roads, what are the police supposed to do, get them out, get the police to beat that people who aren't guilty? You have after that, the state intervenes and re-states those companies that you sold. Did you know that in Serbia one third of the privatisations you made were cancelled? You're talking about a breakdown of reform, and your ideas have been defeated. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, from the place: What ideas? ) The ideas of the reforms you've carried out, because you've misimplemented them, because you've conducted them not with the goal of making the people better than to allow robbery privatisation. I am for reforms, but reforms for the better, in the interests of the entire people and of all citizens of Serbia, and we will certainly be able to co-operate in this. I don't mean, every one of us was responsible for a part of the government he was running. Today we have a society where we have the same number of workers and the same number of employees, and these workers where 1:1, less than half of them work in the real sector, that is, making income. How do you think we can hold out, and that's exactly what I'm talking about, we need to increase the economic base, so that we can achieve all our political, economic and social goals. But we need to know what we want. We must have a system in which there will be fundamental elements of justice, in which education and treatment will not be a privilege of rich and privileged. If this is something Serbia should not have as a goal, then we do not belong to modern Europe, then we belong to countries that have strayed into the 21st century. If in the 21st century it will be a privilege to have someone have a health book, and that's why Obama stands out in America, if you're making fun of the projects on high-speed tracks or corridors that Obama stands for in America, it looks like you've strayed the century. So please don't ask questions like this if it's going to be one or the other concept. It's a matter for us to settle. It's here now whether we can perform, whether we have enough strength, expertise, knowledge and courage to perform everything we've said. It's a dilemma and a task for this government. I'm convinced that if we can't make economic progress so fast, we can at least have a fair country. That we can have a power that will share the fate of the people and that we can have a concept that will be long-term and that will say that over the next 10 years we can lay the foundations of economic policy that will lead to financial consolidation and stabilisation of the reported finances, but also to an increase in living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22865	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22866	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Mr. Prime Minister, you're acting like a historian, but a bad historian. You avoid responsibility, you skillfully accuse the opposition, and you forget that you yourself are the longest in power in the 21st century, which indirectly, which directly. (President: I'm asking you to just talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, since it's not a replica. This is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Specify a member. I said - 106. You've brought forth a series of false words about the time in which you were either a member of the government or supported the government. You accused us of some things, and now the people who were with you in the government were in charge of carrying out that reform. Who was supposed to reform the pension fund, if not your colleagues in the government? Who was supposed to reform the health fund, if not your former colleagues in the government? Who has been responsible for these privatisations since 2004 when you supported this government? How is it possible that you are now suddenly accusing someone else, and you were giving minority support? You personally. From 2004 to 2013, you are nine years indirect, which directly in government. You're holding a lecture here like you don't exist and you became prime minister yesterday. How is that possible? Do you feel a dose of at least a little responsibility? Are we going to talk about last decade all the time, or are you going to tell us what we're doing in advance? What are these people going to do in front of you as a reform in the pension fund, the health fund, what will be the tax reform, do you have ideas and a vision of how to do it, not to accuse the opposition? The people who were in charge of it, sitting with you, had a fight in the government where you and I were. There was a negative reaction to every attempt at reform. I don't want to mention names, because you know exactly who I'm talking about. I don't think it's fair for you to perform like that today. (President: Time. Your responsibility is much greater than everyone else in the O.R. You've supported these privatisations since 2004. You are the concept, which was largely implemented at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22867	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Two minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22868	I'm advocating a violation of Article 116 regarding Article 106. Rules of Procedure. Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. Now, Mr. Stefanovic, on the agenda, the choice of members of the government is in line with the exposé brought out yesterday by the prime minister. However, the prime minister came to the assembly today with a brand-new exposé. So what he's saying here today has very little connection, and very often the opposite of what he was talking about yesterday. Today, Mr. Dacic is once again an old Ivica Dacic, who holds pointless lectures on the difference between classical liberals, neoliberals, whatever that means, Obama and the Social Democrats. That, Mr. Dacic, doesn't make any sense, nothing will bring us such a debate. You know the work ahead of us, first of all, but I mean in front of the whole society, when it comes to the reform of the PIO fund. In Slovenia, everything fell apart when they started to change the PIO fund, and then came to the Constitutional Court that introduced the rule of bankruptcy rights and everything collapsed. The government, the country's orientation, then partly the economy. What do you think's waiting for us? Instead of doing this, to start seriously talking, as you suggested yesterday, about reforming the PIO fund, you continue to use the assembly pay phone, the position of prime minister, the Prime Minister for these petty bribes – who is guilty, who robbed? Here, I don't know, maybe you're objecting to the DS that it's for re-statement now. We're not. We're to continue the privatisation, complete the privatisation, and we're not hiding it. What has ruined privatisation so far is that the private sector that has sought to poison the state. There's so much in every job, so many rules she sets, so much as chokes everything that then those who deal with private business or keep their mouth shut or try to find some, much of them, relationship with the state, and that's how this chain of corruption or crime becomes. Instead of talking about this kind of modernization, you're talking about who's a communist, who's not a communist. As far as I know, in this new government of yours, only one member is a declared communist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22869	According to the Rules of Procedure, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22870	I advertise Ruler 107, with sincere recognition that I personally do not feel offended but rather aroused by the discussion of the prime minister who is becoming increasingly interesting because he is actually returning to the initial principles of political philosophy. There was no such thing in the exhibition, but the first member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly defines Serbia as a state based on the principles of civil democracy and civil society. Civil society, as we know, rests on the idea of the market. A citizen is a man who has his own interests and can be organized and free to represent and defend them on the market. The opposite of the market is monopoly and force. You, Mr. President, specifically said where your market is. You're expressing, if I understand, doubts about the market as the civil and civil value of the nation and this society and you'd audit that elemental assumption of civil society, it should be in the exposé because you're announcing at least the revision of the constitution, and actually entering a time machine where we're going to have a concept of monopoly and violence characteristic of the middle-century rhythmic ambience to want to maintain if we despise the market. Serbian citizens, who have too strong a social consensus on market resistance, I guess just as Vice-President Vukic just now, should be encouraged to open up to the market as an emancipation space, and not to be intimidated by market mechanisms. I say, I've used advertising to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I am convinced that this return to the principles of political philosophy when discussing the election of ministers can be very useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22871	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22872	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Dacic, these may be topics that are more suitable for exposés than for this kind of controversy, but first, I'll tell you what they are for our thieving privatisations. Privatization of NIS. That's what you voted for, among other things. You sold the national industry for 400 million, the monopoly of this country which today and how useful it would be, let's say, when you talk to farmers, and you tell them -- the government can't prescribe the price and can't, so put a point on it, because you can't put a decimal, but the government can help you through the national oil industry. It's a thief's privatization. I was in the government that brought "Telecom" back to Serbia, not that other governments would rob Telecom, but that they would use it. We conducted an international dispute and returned Galenika to Serbia and worked, and today it is a ruin. We need to finish the privatisation. This country can't get anywhere if you, as you have now, continue to act. The labour law, which you want to change, my government changed 12 years ago. The first thing your government did in 2004 was break that law. I'm sorry, privatisation can't be fair. If we're looking for justice in privatization, make it quick and fair. There is no justice for what happened to people in Serbia. It's true that a lot of people are out of work. Are you talking to us about pensions? Well, we inherited a country where the pensioners owed 15 pensions. We couldn't change the Law on the PIO Fund, because it was at federal level, and neither was the Law on the fight against organised crime to apply, which is why the Prime Minister was killed on us. (President: Time. And if we don't go back at that time, you won't find your happiness, and neither will we, but clear principles. You can spend what's being created. If we're little, we have to create more, to find the best, the ones that will lead us to it. Serbia has never been like this before. The salary is lower than the salary in Montenegro. The highest unemployment rate, the highest percentage of young people who want to leave here. These are the prices of the wrong orientation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22873	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22874	Exactly, Mr. Jovanovic. That's what I said last year in the exposé, that Serbia, by economic parameters, is in a catastrophic situation, that we have the lowest wages in the region, the highest unemployment rate not only in the region, but perhaps in Europe, the most unstable currency, that we have the highest interest rates. All this is true, but it has not occurred in these years, since this Serbian government exists. If you haven't read it or remembered it, read it in my exposé, here it is, Mr. Sutanovac, from last year. I said all that openly and clearly. It is true that Serbia is a state based on the principles of civil democracy. Mr. Milenic, while you're quoting the Constitution, why didn't you quote that whole first member of the Constitution? "The Republic of Serbia is a state of Serbian people and of all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values." Everything that's written should be applied. We are far from now wanting state interventionism to solve these issues. The state just needs to help. I agree that these things, as much as and in any way, should be left for discussion. We'd be the happiest in the government if the state didn't have to help at all. This is the goal, for the state to help only its regulatory function, the legislative function, and not now to address the issue of social problems in Serbia by subsidising or various other compromises, the price of gas, the price of electricity. Anyway, I wouldn't be getting into these questions right now about who he was and why he was guilty, but you just have to realize that for ten years in the previous term you were coming back to the previous time before 2000. That hurts. And it hurts you now when it comes back to some previous time, just don't talk now – don't go back to the previous time, when you've been building your entire policy on anti-Milasevician settings. As for that, each nation measured its size in the election. I've been to the government with all of you, and now I have more votes than any of you, so judge for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22875	National MP Dejan Radenkovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22876	Article 107. Dear President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the moment when you did not warn Mr Cedomir Jovanovic that he is not cheating and that he does not destroy the dignity of the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia the moment he talks, when he states and uses the thesis that heist privatisation is NIS. Was NIS supposed to remain state-owned and record huge losses of several billion dinars a year, and when it was privatised, NIS recorded over 50 billion gains and is going to the budget as a percentage? Only 37 million have been paid taxes since NIS was privatized. Don't let us use deception. Serbian citizens know very well. They felt good about their skin on that robbery privatisation, they ended up on the street. Let's finally start with a normal debate, talk about what's on the agenda today. I'd like to ask you to continue today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22877	Right on line, MP Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22878	Chairman, you have an objection, even though it's a replica. I asked for it 15 minutes ago, you wouldn't let me. I think it's good to talk today about the key problem of this country, which is the economy. It is good for new people in the government and for the citizens of Serbia. The whole controversy we didn't participate in yesterday was completely pointless. I think we're going there today. I was genuinely concerned by the discussion of some of my predecessors, and I recognized in those discussions a new economic policy of the government. Fortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister denied it. Of course it can't and shouldn't be the policy of the future government. (Ivica Dacic, from the place: What's that? ) Mr Dacic, in your exposé you stated the need to make this country a serious reform of the pension system, a reform of the labour market. You haven't told us at any time how, how and what you mean, but I ask you that, if you answer that question, it's not a political answer, what we've heard today and so far. Tell me specifically how you're going to do, what does this reform mean, what does labour reform mean? Name one case that's a paradigm. Here, "Simpo" you mentioned. How would you solve the Simpa problem and how would you solve it in the country? That's what citizens expect. We do not expect this government to be a transitional government, but to work and solve problems and to have ministers who will become ministers, the candidates know what their job is. We hear a lot of paradoxical things here. It's not a question of whether it's liberal or not, or whether I don't know the protectionist concept, it's changing in relation to the state of the country. Let's not put economic problems in Serbia to blame for one man. It's always mentioned implicitly. The country's economy is both culture and health and education and this National Assembly and this government. (President: Time. So we can't assume that one man is responsible for everything. There will be an opportunity for me to ask you a few more questions during this discussion, but I would like to hear concrete answers, not political ones. What do you mean by reforming the pension system and what do you mean by labour reform?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22879	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. I just have to tell you, in response to the replica, to your previous exposure. I'll have to do that a few times, every time someone makes that argument, I'll have to explain it for the public. When the People's MP gets word to the Rules of Procedure, he gets the word right away. When a MP calls and asks for a replica, he gets a word after the MP who has asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if, in the meantime, and no matter how many times a member of the Government appears, he writes in the Rules of Procedure, he gets the first word. It may occur that someone is asking for a replica and that an hour after an hour should not come while the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and members of the Government are being replaced. So it's simply the Rules of Procedure. I'm not responsible for that, but I'm going to explain this after every time people ask why they didn't get the word. I am trying, although Mr Dacic was reported, for example when you asked for a word and when he asked for Mr Jovanovic, so I asked them to intervene that we are still having an argument, and not to be alone, let me say something like that. I'll try to intervene as long as I can, but I have to respect the Rules of Procedure, that's just why it took so long. The word has Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22880	I don't know why you called, on what basis? I didn't mention... (Vladimir Ilic, from the place: Not to you, but to the previous speaker. Please, and to the previous speaker, you were talking about me. (Vladimir Ilic, from the place: The questions are for you. ) As far as NIS is concerned, I must say that I was not in the government when the NIS agreement was defined. At that time, Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic were in the government. But do you think it's serious that the state that will later reject what the previous government has committed itself to? Also, I don't want to talk about the price, I just know what the effect is. So far, two and a half billion euros have been invested in NIS, i.e. in Serbia by Gazprom and the Russian Federation. We expect that from the South Stream whose construction is due to begin in December, it will be worth 1.7 or 1.9 billion euros. So whether the price was right or not, in which I did not participate, the effect is positive. When it comes to these issues that you asked about reforming the pension system and everything else, you were in the government until yesterday, leading all those resolutions, didn't you suggest? What does that mean now? When you're supposed to be in government, then you agree to everything, and when you're not supposed to be in government, then you're wrong about everything else now. I must tell you, I have suggested that the URS no longer be part of the ruling coalition, because I felt that progress should be made in the area of economy, finance, because the success of a government cannot be measured only on the political agenda unless there is success in the economic plan. I don't think I was wrong. If you think I'm wrong, don't vote it, let the U.S.S. remain in the government. When it comes to "Simp", Mr. Ilic, Mladjan Dinkic agreed with Dragan Tomic to relativise "Sik Kopalnik" together. You invited me to that meeting. How was Dragan Tomic good for him then, now he's no good? Many officials from opposition current parties were members of Simpa administration, how was he good for them then, now not good for them? You know what the difference is? The difference is that workers are statistics for you, and for us are the essence of the policy we are dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22881	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22882	Okay, Mr. Dacic, whether the worker is just statistics or something, you'll find it hard to convince us that you care more about people who work in Serbia or who are looking for a job than we do. So, Mr. Dacic, we'd like to have a state and we're always trying to make Serbia a serious state. That's why we supported those political shifts of yours, because they're a prerequisite for the creation of a normal country. We have nothing against a Serbian state that is capable and can help when it is needed, as some other countries do. The Liberal concept is not anti-state. I will try to explain to you in the simplest way why you must free yourself from these political delusions or that division within you. You know for a fact that there's no other way than what we're talking about, you've only been prolonging it for years. You voted Mr. Dacic, 13 budgets have been elected by this parliament since October 5th, you voted for nine. All nine were wrong. They temporarily extinguished those fires, but now there's a fire ahead. If we're talking about pension fund reform, health fund reform, all the big systems that don't work anymore, they're falling apart in front of our eyes, then we need to be ready to face what's real, we can't take it out of the way. We wish it wasn't 15% of GDP in advance fixed pension payments. We wish it was less. A country that binds 15% of GDP to pensions is like a man with pressure 300th question when it's gonna break. We're worried about what the finance minister is leaving and saying -- you have two or three months of money, so you'll get along for a second time, which we're doing by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22883	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22884	I agree, Mr. President, that the first member of the Constitution should be quoted as a whole. I didn't just do it because you mentioned values before, related to social justice, and not suspiciously that all five pillars on which Serbia rests under the constitutional definition have equal importance and priority for those who bear responsibility for Serbia's governance. What is the essence of my question is not whether one or the other will be neglected, but why are the same government completely different messages at the same time, and in what sense should the priorities of the government's policy be understood when we are discussing the exposé? On the one hand, we are talking about encouraging people to improve, to learn for life, to increase competitiveness, which are market categories, that people must understand that working among other goods on the market and thus raise their competitiveness, that was an explicit message from the vice president, that you would immediately, in the name of social justice, explicitly discredit the market as a social value and a civilizational liquid of our community. In that regard, will this type of duality that exists objectively in our society be an unsolved issue for the government itself, or does the Government have a clear solution to what kind in the ultimate conflict of the political concept it offers? The one who is still as liberal as it would appear in your exposé, because it is a spirit of remarks that Serbia will not be a appendix, that Serbia will not give up integration and integration with the modern world, will certainly not succeed by running away from the fact that it has reduced competitiveness and the subject of market defamation to progress on the market itself and in relationships with the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22885	Thank you, Mr. Milenich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milisav Petronijevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22886	Your Honor, I would like to begin by saying that I respect the need for you to hold a session very toleranceally, but I would like to point out that there is also a limit. I'm advertising Article 27 that says you're obliged to take care of the Rules of Procedure, 96, which says there's a protocol on how the session runs, as far as anyone can speak, in 106 and 107, that you have an obligation to give to every member of Parliament who appears in the Rules of Procedure, but to prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. What do I want to say? Me and many of our colleagues are very patiently waiting to say what we think of the exposé and the proposed candidates. It happens here that others use that time. By misusing the Rules of Procedure, they're actually talking about what's on the agenda, here all the time through the story. Simply, an impression was made, either so they think or have such a program, that they can insult the Prime Minister without him answering, that they can ask a question by misusing the Rules of Procedure, talking about the subject. I'm sorry, they have a lot more time, or if you think that's the way it's supposed to be, let's all pick up the replicas, so we can make out something that's not the Parliament. The assembly has its own procedure. Everyone has a chance to say what they think, whether they agree, whether they disagree. Please respect. The damage to the Rules of Procedure and replicas are very precisely defined by the Rules of Procedure, when given. Any other abuses, please stop them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22887	The word is made by the MP Dr Zoran Radovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22888	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, Vice-President, members of the old and new cabinet, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 106, paragraph 3. Tossing during a speaker's story. A short time ago, a respected fellow historian, a former military minister, appeared on my right, explaining and obtaining what happened and how the SPS acted during this previous period. My dear fellow dramatist, close to me by age, mentioned 13 budgets of which the SPS voted nine, as we change, since I've been a member of the SPS for a long time, before that "married me" etc., when I was wearing what I had now and then, I wasn't in jeans. I'd just like to ask you to get back on the agenda. In 1996 you in Nis, I don't mean specifically, all of you, sold the electronic machine, destroyed everything you liberally sold. Currently, there are liberals in Japan. We'll see how their concept goes there, so let's take some quality experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22889	Mr. Radovanovic, for the sake of Mr. Petronivic, who asked me not to allow the violation of the Rules of Procedure to stand out, I must ask that you address me and that we are really talking about the injury. Mr. Petronijevic is right about that part. But of course I'm trying to keep this session going as normal as possible, so people can say what they want, but let's really stick to the procedure. Injure the Rules of Procedure, you point to me, what you consider. Everyone's trying so hard to replicate some of them in the O.R. Then he finds himself called, answers that, and people who wait, some of yesterday, to sign up to talk about the subject, they can't do that. That's where I support what Mr. Petronijevic said. Please, let's end the breach of the Rules of Procedure and move on to debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22890	Now I'm going to look directly at you. I don't want to look right or left. I'm talking to you. In 2000, three things were promised to me as a citizen. They promised me they would stay in Serbia, stay in Kosovo with us and reach 100 billion. Nothing's been filled. I don't look right, I don't look left...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22891	It's not just a breach of the Rules of Procedure if you're looking left or right. You've already had two minutes, so I'm taking your word from you right now. Generally, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure you're addressing. There is also a provision of the Rules of Procedure regarding this. But when you talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you can't talk about something that was, like, In 2000. You need to talk about what the theme of the session is. I understand. We'll try to keep the session normal. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22892	Mr. Dacic, I didn't expect a different answer, although I asked you for a concrete answer, not politically, as you see reforming the pension system, reforming the labour market. I hope we hear it during the discussion. You don't have to answer to me right now. Here, think about it. As for getting kicked out of the government, we really don't have any problem with that. Perhaps you've been able to read my statement as well. I said there's no reason to be mad at our coalition partners this morning, and neither do you personally. Maybe you did us a favor. I suppose that's what you think. Maybe that's how it really is. I have no reason to object to the government we were in until yesterday. On the contrary, this government has done a lot of good things for Serbia, especially when it comes to EU accession negotiations. There are some really good indicators that will allow new ministers to continue where we left off. In July, we have an absolute record in export growth of 1.1 billion euros. It's really unrecorded. Exports are growing 25%. We have a 12.5% growth in industrial production, a slight drop in unemployment. But that's not enough. I agree with everyone who talked about it today. It needs more. Citizens expect more from all of us, especially the new government. We need to make it clear what kind of arrangement we want with the World Bank and whether we want it, because we've heard that there are dilemmas about it too, whether we're going to do corridors, whether we're going to continue reform. In the end, politics is politics. I believe you can't help but answer me politically. What happens here is a situation like when you're seduced by a beautiful woman, you don't know what's happening to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22893	Don't talk about it. I have to stop you. Who knows what kind of trouble you'll have later. Unfortunately, your time is up. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22894	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, head of the DS Parliament Club, although the second day as we discuss it has not yet been able to reach a word. We tried not to advertise the Rules of Procedure today, although yesterday we made it clear that you had harshly violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing both the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister to present their exposés. However, this today turned into a divorce case between the SPS and the URS, with a small involvement by the SNS. We would ask you, if possible, to reduce this debate on the subject of the agenda, which is the choice of government and swearing. We'd have a lot to say about the work of the current government and about ministers who should be elected to the new government, so I'm asking you to let us do that. We would ask the ministers, or prime minister, who invites us to discuss it, to enable us to do so. True, he can speak according to the Rules of Procedure for five days, but that means that this session will take five days and that he will talk for five days, and that we will talk for 55 minutes, which belongs to us as a parliamentary group. We don't think that's politically correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22895	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure are like that. Those who voted to adopt this Rules of Procedure were then to think, that when they were opposition, that members of another government would be able to speak incomparably longer than any MP in the parliamentary group could do. It's a problem for our Parliament. At the same time, let me tell you about your objection about whether a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done - I don't think it is, when it comes to the fact that we've given the word to the Prime Minister and the first Vice President, but we're not going to decide either of you or me, but the National Assembly in the voting day, so we're going to see who was right. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22896	Everything's bothering you. Yesterday, you were missing that there was no exposé divided earlier. There's never been a shared exposé before, now you've got it before. It's not enough 45 minutes, maybe ten days. All right. You have suggested that future ministers, candidates for ministers, although they have not yet been elected ministers, come to committees to question how they will work. It was never that, but okay, it could be in some future period. You're at the beginning right now, thinking we'd work all night and vote right now, start talking about the dark. Then you missed me not being in the O.R. for half an hour, and now that I'm here, you said you couldn't work without me and that I was the only one who could answer for the word. Now that I'm discussing it, it's bothering you again. I wouldn't use sayings, but anyway, I want to say there's no problem. This is a political struggle. I've never physically harassed anyone here. I'm plowing. I have the right, as Prime Minister. When you're the Prime Minister, use that right. Anyway, I only answer when someone asks me a question or when they call me. Just before, Mr. Ilic spoke of "Simp", thinking that it is an exposition of the SPS. He well knows that I did not participate in the Simpa negotiations at all, that the first vice president's cabinet, his advisers and the finance and business ministry participated. He knows well that it was not a problem whether Simpo should pay the tax, that is, to make a conversion, but rather that your proposal was to make the conversion through bankruptcy. Is it okay if it goes through bankruptcy? Besides, it wasn't me who turned it down, it was the whole government. As for Simpa and the SPS, I have never been a member of the board of directors of any Simpa body, and they were from many other parties. All the prime ministers visited Simpo. Mr. Milosavljevic Slobodan and Sutanovac were even members and administration of Simpa. Tadic received Dragan Tomic and "Ikeu" and all others. You know what, Dragan Tomic and Simpo can't be good for you just for painting, or when you need to open the drive in Leposavic, Shop, Bujanovac, Presevo, Vlasotinc, Crno Trava, and then what we do with five, six thousand workers – it doesn't matter. It's said they have met their goal. Then why didn't you fill it in at first than when you left? Why haven't you seduced strict discipline since the beginning? Why? Because of the political pressures? What have you suffered? This means that contrary to your beliefs you were in power and if you stayed, you would probably have suffered "Simpo". As far as I'm concerned, when it comes to exposé, do you really think I wrote the exposé myself, in the sense that I haven't consulted ministers and candidates for ministers, you really have such a notion that there are ten concepts of politics in the government? Do you think anything can be done without mutual consultation and coordination and economic policy, policies in the field of European integration, the Brussels Agreement, etc? I didn't mind if the U.R.S. stayed in the government, but not in those places. Mladjan Dinkic did not accept. He was looking for a super ministry, and it was unacceptable for me as a prime minister, and there's no reason for any conflict or anger. I don't think that's absolutely problematic because the primary objective of this government is to make a step in all areas. Without this political redistribution within the government, it was not possible to take steps forward. But I don't think, I thank everyone who was in the government for the cooperation we had on important government duties. In any case, what will be the reforms, what will be the concrete moves? I'm sure we'll talk about that in the coming weeks. As I said - short-term measures, medium-term measures, long-term measures must be on the agenda. I'm going back to what you asked me again. You mentioned "Simpo". Tell me, how many states have given money to Sartide now in this year because of a state of Sartide? How much is it? Probably between 100 million and 200 million. Mr. Bacevic tells me it's $140 million. Because of the stateship of Sartida. What is the consequence of the stateship of Sartida? What's the consequence? And now you're only talking about workers as statistics. There's a difference. We're different political parties and we just couldn't move on together. I don't see anything wrong with that. As for Simpa and other companies, no one has the right not to pay taxes. That's for sure. No one has the right not to pay taxes when it comes to sports clubs, but also private businessmen. Why doesn't someone ask how many private companies we've freed from paying interest on various taxes and contributions to the pension fund, etc? Mr. Krkobic came out and he rebelled at every cabinet session. Why did we release them? I won't answer again. I want to listen to all the club bosses now, and then I'll take my word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22897	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22898	Thank you, Mr. President. Privatisation of NIS is not just a symbolic example. Mr. Dacic, it's true that this deal was made by someone else. What's your commitment, Mr. Dacic? A deal that makes another or your duty to take care of Serbia's interests? This is not a controversy in which our attitude about Russia is at the heart. They did a good job for themselves. Anything I'd like to tell you here, I've already told the current Prime Minister Putin on his way here as president. Good job for Russia, bad job for us. It is true that in the agreement they have rights that are unimaginable for anyone else here in Serbia. They may have paid a 30 billion tax, but only last year, that's the official data published, they removed 800 million worth of oil and gas from Serbia. They paid off NIS with a loan that NIS himself took to their bank. We sold the Slave Houses in bankruptcy for 350 million, or 60, and the NIS that worked for 400. I'm not asking to crucify anyone here. It's true that when the state does something, then the state either does or doesn't, but I guess we could learn something from it. I didn't say you were thieves or criminals because you sold one hotel for a million and a half. I also won't agree with the idea that our economy or society can develop from case to case. There are too many big problems ahead of us so we can act like one. You can't, because of our insistence to go to events to meet, constantly seek for yourself the temporary benefit of people who don't like these difficult moves that we have to take. That's what you're doing, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22899	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22900	Article 107. I appreciate what Mr. Dacic said about not answering again, but I think it's important that we clear one thing in this day. I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, and through it all citizens of Serbia. So, don't ever tell Mr. Dacic again or ask one of your associates - and how many states did she give Sartida? Because it never gives state, it always gives taxpayers, citizens of Serbia. That's the only important question. When you worry, I think you should take care of a few thousand people in Smederev, but then take care of the other six million 990 thousand. There's been a lot of quotes here in the last two days. I'm not going to quote it directly now, but in the end, you always have one important criterion. It's a great rapper how you should run politics. Producers are always looking for some subsidy, trade unions are always looking for something, but in the end, they're all consumers and taxpayers...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22901	I didn't even let the MPs do that. So, please, Mr. Guric. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure? You'll get your word, of course, but let me run this session. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22902	Mr. President, this is already for who knows which time, and especially after pointing out to a respected colleague, Misa Petronivic, a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. Article 27. Undoubtedly, the most severe violation of the Rules of Procedure is when abuse of procedural powers is committed, and even MPs who are often shown here as parliamentary conscience do so. In a specific case, the previous speaker did so in a way that is inadmissible. He sought a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then went into a harsh controversy with the prime minister. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Why didn't you react to the speaker who did something like that? This is a couple of times in a row. Instead of applying the Rules of Procedure in a consistent manner, warnings shall be made due to a greater number of the same injuries. That hasn't been done yet. I ask that during the session, this Assembly protect against such abuses, abuse of procedural powers, to allow normal work and the course of this assembly, and that we MPs can participate in the debate equally, normally with respect to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22903	That's what I did. I interrupted Mr. Djuric in the 40th second of his exposure, when I estimated that what he said in the first part, related to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, was exhausted and that from that moment on, the second case, which you were talking about, appeared. Then he retreated, ended his word, and that's when we solved the case. Of course, I'll try not to let anyone, no matter who it is, break the Rules of Procedure in this way. The word is made by MP Zoran Radovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22904	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored members of the Government and distinguished colleagues, Article 110(2). You just took away a word from me when I started talking and it was shorter than a fellow MP who spoke before me, and I just wanted to say one more sentence, which is that everything they privatized in 2000, the model of privatisation, in an unscrupulous way...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22905	Don't do that either. I can't allow you to proceed with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right. So I took away your word when you were talking for a minute and a half. That's when we entered the controversy. When it was two and a half minutes, I let you carry on. And in the third minute, after two minutes of your exposure, your exposure was completed at the end of the time you had in the Rules of Procedure. So you're wrong. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22906	I agree with Mr. Dacic to finish this round and give the others a chance to discuss the reconstruction and election of the new government. The truth works, just a few clarifications. I don't know why we're talking so much about Simpa right now. The proposal made by Mr Dinkic is about to avoid bankruptcy, not as you say is being brought into bankruptcy. Let's move it aside. Remember, you had your chance, you and I talked about "Simp" a long time ago, you came to me to intervene for "Simpo" and I don't see anything wrong with it. You were worried about the big company. If you say, "Why do we put up with the pressures?" That means you admit that you've been putting pressure on us. That's not controversial. You have no reason to justify why you kicked us out of the government. It's a question for us to be in a position to maybe kick you out someday. This is where I give you my confession. You've made one political decision, no emotions, no hate, and I haven't seen it as anything bad. You have estimated that Serbia should continue in a different way at the moment. You're the prime minister of this country, you took responsibility. You've taken the weight off our backs. I expect, as well as Serbian citizens, that Serbia will be much better and more successful. The big parties have been persistently avoiding all these years to face the biggest problem. Somehow it's always gone down to someone who's not so important and significant in the government. It is good for Serbia that, finally, those who are the most responsible take responsibility and responsibility for what is Serbia's biggest problem. I agree, I'm finishing this controversy of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22907	The word is by MP Predrag Markovic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22908	I'm a serious man, you don't think I'd be involved in what might sound unserious. Finally, I respect the citizens, I respect the subject of the agenda, I respect the fact that you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, today on several occasions explained the exact competences of the chairman of the Rules of Procedure in order for the citizens to understand, because I assume that they, as well as the citizens who are candidates for the members of the Government and who are here, what is really a debate on the agenda, and what are various political messages or wishes: welcome my dad, my party will keep the promise alone, yesterday she couldn't, and now as soon as she's able to do so, that people don't think that they're all very unsertained. Something must be done as arranged by the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the Rules of Procedure only edits how the Assembly could be run. The Rules of Procedure don't arrange life. I respect the fact that people sit here, they don't have the right to say things to the Rules of Procedure. I also respect citizens who certainly don't want to listen, because they know that in their families there's no idea, when you compete what happened yesterday, who was guilty the day before, who was guilty 10 days ago, who 10 years ago. The examples I'm going to call on will only be examples from this week, from what you see here in the Assembly, but if I give any official information, I'll give the information that is official state data from July. If I'm waving some paper, it's not gonna be a piece of paper for a television show that you don't know if it's true and what citizens can't check, but what citizens got, if they're pensioners, what they got in person at home, if they're the ones paying for electricity, what they're writing to them, so they can check for what they're writing for themselves, because it's important what we're really going to do. In that sense, and only now do we begin what is the topic of the agenda. The theme is to select new members of the government and it is important, when you speak in the Assembly, that you can show everything on a personal case, not what are nice words, but if you are able to promise, show that you can keep your promise. My promise was that every one, I gave it three days ago, every one of you, respected candidates for members of the government, that I would welcome you to the House of the National Assembly, I have an additional obligation, I gave this building a name, and that I would welcome you in a way that obliges you to do something in the interests of citizens with practical examples. It is not the subject of the agenda of the Prime Minister, and it is not easy, and you candidates know well, all these hours sitting in the Assembly. I don't sit around all the time. I go out, I follow over the TV, I come back. That's why I have nothing to say to Mr. Dacic. What can I tell you, Mr. Dacic? Since you said – only when the heads of the parliamentary groups are finished or authorized, as I am, of course, authorized always in front of the URS, that only then will you take the word, there is no reason for me to call you. Feel free to walk, rest, do some errands, everything is correct. Especially since yesterday, you confirmed the same thing as today's gesture, reminded that there are people who talk one thing when they're in power, and the other when they're in opposition and that there are those who know it all and can be told it -- we know each other, so you confirmed that I was also the President of the Assembly and Minister, that you had no objections to either one, and that I wasn't changing my views then, so I'm not going to do it now. First, Mr. Radulovic, Mr. Krstic, Glamočić, Rodic, Udovic, Mirovic, Mr. Tasovac, Mr. Jovanovic, I hope you will take an oath today and then not only welcome you here to the House of the National Assembly, but welcome you to the Serbian Government. Of course you, too, Mr. Vulin, haven't seen you, I'm sorry, since you're already in the government. Mr. Antiću, you are in the Assembly all the time, so the people who were MPs were in the previous period, but also more than welcome to you. By the way, there was a lot of talk here about reconstruction, of course, because it was announced in one way, ended in another, so it confused the citizens of Serbia, but let it go, it was yesterday. Today we have the consequences of all this. The result is a job waiting for you when you start as authorized persons to enter the Serbian government building and do your job. My request is that you take care of two things on that occasion. The first is – what kind of people you have available, how much money you have available and what you can do every day. Let go of what those who called you promised. The question is, what are they going to fill? I saw my promises. Secondly, as difficult as it will be, and this is Serbia and you will see what affects you, that you do not believe, affects what "Farma" is, some real program, starts tomorrow, affects whether there is a war on the globe, whether someone attacked Syria, maybe it will start tomorrow, also affects what will happen to Kosovo, Metohija, the state of Serbia, it does not start tomorrow, it continues. But whatever it is, it's your job, and I wish you success, not to be burdened with whether or not the government is going to depend on you. As you know or at least serious people assume, I will try, and that depends on me and the other citizens of Serbia, but don't worry about whether it will be three months, six months, one year, three years, do every day what you really have available and money and people and legal basis. You won't have a legal basis for something. Different laws have been passed, so we correct them. They're inconsistencies with each other. If you need help, you've heard for yourself, you've seen for yourself, in many resolutions, all if there are ministers in them now or not, all of a sudden whether we're talking about finance, economics, education, regional development, defense, everything where ministers have resigned, everywhere, you'll know all these people, all of them from which are parties, you'll have help to give you accurate information, if you're doing a job for the benefit of the state. But you have people who can help you, as well as among citizens. You have citizens who can ignore everything that's happened and say, "Let's do something for our country, it'll be good for me too." You have citizens who can't do that. They've lost so much hope, so much they don't know what to do with their family and themselves, there's no way they can help you. They need you to help them. Whenever you bring some measure, whatever you have to talk about on TV, take care of these people. It's not easy for them. They didn't deserve it. This is not taken into account by speaking at the myths or in the congregation. You know, if you're sending messages to the pensioners, my parents, unfortunately, are all dead, but I'm a working kid and I don't need politics and pounding into my chest to represent the workers. I know what happens to those families that used to be workers. You fight when it comes to the IMF and the World Bank and within the government, but make sure that the pensioners don't happen to get their home addresses so they can get the money back because this is a little bit of what they've received, and there's someone who made a mistake. I'm not accusing anyone politically. I'm not accusing people of any political party, but I'm accusing them of talking more on television and in the Assembly, and they didn't enter their portfolio, so they've got leprosy. You saw yesterday that on two occasions I reminded, what the citizens see, that the simple seating schedule of the current members of the government who are present and those who are to become not good is not decent. You know who's sitting. Every house knows who's sitting. There's a grandfather somewhere, a child somewhere, but there's no telling where he's sitting. Why did I say that? Not to force you to exchange places, not to remind you it's the worst if you claim you weren't born in a chair, and it's hard to replace seats in parliament. No, not because of that. Something else entirely. Because it is your choice and I hope that you will be elected, it is never known that one of you will not change your mind because of what all these people have been talking about these days, or for some other reason, or that someone from the parliamentary majority will give up voting for some reason, but I hope that you will be chosen and that is the end of the process that started with the amendments and amendments of the law, so we here to Mr Selakovic, a great young minister, is great because he regularly came to the Assembly and showed what he does, what he can't do. In a proposal to amend and supplement someone is smutty, it's not a mistake for that minister, not for the Prime Minister, not for the vice president, but for someone who was supposed to do the job, he only copied in an explanation, copy-paisy, copying what was written in the explanation of the previous government. Last year, when the government was elected a year ago, it said, "This is due to rationalisation, to reduce numbers" and a smaller number of ministers were present compared to the government of Mr Cvetkovic. And it was written here, and the messengers stood up and said, for God's sake, it says "renationalization" to you, and there will be more of you. I joked a little yesterday, because if you'd set yourself up and all the current ministers and candidates responded, you'd see you have nowhere to sit. It's a joke compared to what someone did, and once again I say it's not the minister, he did it. I'm in that discussion, too, and that's what I'm asking you now, to notify the Minister of Energy. She's certainly not responsible for it. It takes care of political goals. I voted for them, but the citizens are, and there's no matter which party, they all got in their homes these two solutions. Should I read to you what it says? One of those EPSs that we paid for electricity, and whatever was going on around here, and when the bombs were going down, and when the governments were changing, and when we had a job, and when we didn't have a job, we who were responsible citizens, as long as we had something in our pocket, we paid for the electricity first. These men have adequately responded to us. Speaking of bombings, remember what the people of the EPS are, what the people of the waterworks did, where they ran and what they did. I don't like who's everything or what pay he's received. I don't like what these business buildings look like and who's sitting in them, but that's one thing. But don't play so you can send people. You'll have a discount. You say you'll have a discount if you pay until the day before yesterday. That's what you're playing with these people who've been paying responsibly all along. You take care of that, and the other one will be taken care of by politics. Of course, I said that for the citizens and for the session, and today. Otherwise, it'll be fixed, because I, of course, called right away. I didn't call the minister, she enjoys all my sympathy, but there's no need, I called whoever can decide to get rid of it. Not only because it's 2,000, it's so much my subscription, it's important to me, I don't have thousands of euros, it's because it's a matter of basic respect. What people can see with their naked eye, whatever someone tells them, they will tell you whether the government, when we look at it, looks like Serbia, looks like Europe. Because it's always been said in exposés in recent years -- we're for Serbia and we're for Europe. It doesn't look like Thank God, I know every part of Serbia. I didn't happen to write the URS Programme, and it's not an accident that he's not a party but a state and I know that 53% of women are in that Serbia. Women are a better part of society. It's just to forget when it's responsible to show that you really mean it. Dear citizens, these parties will invite you to the elections, perhaps in three months, perhaps in three years, and they will speak. We want to take care of you women, of you citizens. Where were you when they were supposed to be proposed? Is that hard? It's not hard. Do you need to be a position or opposition? It doesn't matter. With the United regions of Serbia, he is always a lady or a boss or deputy head of the parliamentary group. When it comes to ministers, our three ministers were two ladies and one minister. That's where it shows up. Let me tell you something, in Europe, it's being dealt with by law. We don't need the law, we did it three years ago and five years ago, when it wasn't the law, and now we're gonna do it. We have decided that three MPs, on various grounds, leave the Assembly, and yet they will still be, not 30%, now over 40%, will be 50% women. That's not hard. I did it at my firm, and I didn't regret it. Please, if you're going to look like Europe and Serbia, do it individually. I suppose the president, as tolerated as he is today, won't allow those two minutes I've explained to the Rules of Procedure, to speak longer, let me just, on a personal occasion too, to tell you two things. For one thing, there's Mr. Tasovac, and he'll tell you, it's not all about money. He was in the institution of culture when I came to the minister's office. I called you, Director, and I said - there's only this much money, don't start empty, let's see what can be done, make a deal for yourself, I'll get out. Is that what happened? You cultural people agreed, and in the first three months, the Cinematheque and Lepenski Vir and the National Library were both finished. Let's get this over with. Since I'm finishing, and since I promised my personal example, I don't like to do anything in vain. What's been happening to me for the last week here in the Assembly doesn't give me much confidence. I'd like you to do such a good job that when I decide to re-choice or appoint ministers that I can make one of you. For this reason, in order to do the job, I have decided to send you for this kind of discussion as former Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and I will prepare everything from Monday. Don't worry, you do your job, after the election it'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22909	Now I'm gonna help you out a little bit. I'll give Mrs. Mihajlovic a word to arrange for you, so you'll have two minutes again and we've just come to that. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22910	Dear Mr. Markovic, you've always had my sympathies, but a few things I'd like to explain to you, for your sake and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. First, the Minister of Energy does not worry about the political objectives, as you said, I quote you, but about the achievement of energy policy. You're absolutely right when you talk about EPS accounts. On the very insistence of the Ministry of Energy, based on the analysis we conducted by talking to citizens every other Saturday, it turns out that the EPS has entered quite unpreparedly what is called reforming, i.e. forming a new enterprise and resolving debt issues, i.e. new electricity bills. At our insistence, we asked for Saturdays, for agreements to be concluded on Saturdays, for the discount we saw to be back, but not just a discount of 5%, which exists if you pay the bill regularly, but to seriously consider how the EPS will treat those who paid regularly. It's a completely different story with those who, for a variety of reasons, were unable to pay their bills over the past years, so there were huge debts, etc. In that sense, we have made certain reprogrammes possible and I believe that this year we will finally put a line, a point, practically on what are called citizens' debts and businesses to the EPS. Of course, not just discounts, subscriptions and serious problems and serious orders that exist today in distributions. I don't think it's just a matter of distribution companies, distributions that aren't ready, but simply maybe an EPS desire to do it too quickly without being technically unprepared. I absolutely do not justify them, they have received a deadline until when it is due to be completed, unless order is established in companies dealing with distribution, I believe that the EPS itself will have to bear some responsibility. What is the problem, the problem is that today in Serbia, practically through huge lines, consumers are trying to settle their accounts, which are sometimes two dinars, 0.2 money, instead of automatically transferring it if they subscribe to an EPS supply account. This is another sign, to the extent necessary, that the reform of public enterprises will be completed as soon or at least as possible. This is an EPS example, and we could talk about other public enterprises, and that's what was slow over the last year. I think, in that sense, there must be a better coordination between the government and public reform firms. I sincerely hope so, because this is one of the priorities, which is that reforming public enterprises and EPS and "Serbiagas" will speed up in the year ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22911	Replica. Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22912	As promised publicly by you and me, and as I have made it possible for Mrs. Mihajlović to say this, because it is not correct for anyone to think, although I have made it clear and pointed out the previous days, and as I have informed you and everyone else, I have already taken care of it, but it is nice to inform you, because you know, energy policymaking is a political goal. You don't think I'm expressing myself wrong, but I'm expressing myself a little bit with a delay, so somebody's gonna figure it out right now, someone tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. But your answer is an example, and that is why Mr Stefanovic has given me this replica, to define what is the difference between having a portfolio and having great authority. That's what citizens think, about every single thing and what you really can do. This is a nice opportunity. You, Mr. Radulovic, will have a chance to check, if what you've been writing a blog believe it can be done in a month, you'll have a chance to see if it can be done in a month. What did you think for a year? Look, the responsible people know, I think you're all responsible, I want you all to be responsible. Some things I can't do in a month, some things I can't do in ten years. It's too complex a country and it needs a huge experience to be gained or made available to ministers. It's an experience of administration and accurate data. You'll have it, but there's something you can do, there's something you can't do. You will, of course, face some unsettled problems. I'm sorry in advance, I hope you won't regret it, but once again, please, if you need any help, Mr. Tasovac, if you need any advice, call, but only until Monday is free, since I've decided you've heard of me being unemployed after that. I'm kidding, once again welcome, and as the people say, mind to the head and make sure you don't fall for these political stories, you thieves, let them come to our fools...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22913	Mr. Markovic, I have to take your word. Mr. Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22914	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, the controversy about the government's reconstruction lasts for nearly six months. If we had the election six months ago, if they had been declared, two months would have gone to the campaign, the month to form the government, and today we would have discussed the first 100 days of work of the new government. A small change in reconstruction is structural, the Ministry of Business has separated from the Ministry of Finance, a major change in personnel. As you know, our relationship with this government has always been well-intentioned. We thought you deserved a chance and an understanding because of the difficult situation you were in, it was an economic crisis, there were huge debts, public finances were in a difficult situation, and you had a chance to change politics, so I mean, you inherited a difficult situation. Unfortunately, the first chance to change the policy you haven't taken advantage of and that's the biggest problem of this government, because old politics can't be run with new people. So as an introduction, I would like to say that this reconstruction would be a success in the need for a change in policy. The policy, which was from 2008 to 2012, the essence of this policy, that the EU has no alternative, was lost in previous elections. She lost that policy. You got most of it, not because you said the EU had no alternative but you had clear and national, state-run programmes. That is why I believe that this government has no political and moral right to continue with this policy that is reflected in two key positions. The first is, continuing the wrong policy on Kosovo and Metohija and the second position is the unconditional continuation of European integration, which today tells us exclusively about the economy today is causing economic damage. The paradigm to join the EU has been a mandatory improvement for many years, if not a decade until 2008 when there was a major economic crisis. The crisis hit the EU, and even the EU countries, and we heard about it here today in the Assembly and yesterday, changing their concepts economically, changing ways to help their economies. While growth was everywhere, it was also in the EU, it was with us in one period from 2004 to 2008, but it changed. I now think that we must be very pragmatic and accept new flows that occur not only in the EU but everywhere in the environment around us, and in countries that are close and not EU members. This government, if it wants to succeed, has to change politics. As far as the EU is concerned, I would like to say that it has great respect for all EU countries. I most likely appreciate it in economic terms individually and this is our most significant external trading partner, which accounts for 58% of Serbia's total foreign trade. Also, we at the DSS have always advocated the adoption of all laws, whether they are from the EU, whether from some other countries of the world that can contribute to our society being more political, legal and economical. But many other arguments, particularly economic ones, say that for Serbia and the preservation of its national, economic and political interests, it is best to declare political neutrality. Serbia with the EU should develop the best possible relations both economically and politically, culturally, but should not be a member of it. These relationships should be based on a clean bill and mutual benefit. I must say that we at the DSS are proud of our political stance and vision of Serbia's political neutrality. As for the Brussels Agreement, unfortunately, I say this government has continued the wrong policy on Kosovo. A Brussels agreement has been reached that surrounds and legalises the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. The Democratic Party of Serbia is categorically against the Brussels Agreement, because we believe it is unconstitutional and opposed to our national interests. The Democratic Party of Serbia is also against elections in Kosovo, as they are implemented under the laws of the false state of Kosovo. That is why the DSS also urged citizens not to go to the elections in Kosovo and at the same time condemn the pressures of individuals who demand that Serbian people participate in these elections. Only the elections announced by the Serbian Parliament have legal power and the necessary legitimacy, and only in these elections should citizens participate. Also, I would add as far as Kosovo and Metohija issues are concerned that Serbia's Constitutional Court has yet to declare the initiative of 25 MPs of this Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the Brussels Agreement. We can't talk about the full rule of law where the Constitutional Court doesn't declare a key issue of territorial integrity and national sovereignty for a year, because we also insist from this speaker that the Constitutional Court make this decision as soon as possible, because the consequences can be catastrophic. As for some of the resources in this government, I would like to mention that the biggest challenge will be employment. Just a year ago, during the election of this government in the exposé, it was stated that there will be no calls for belting and saving. As far as I can see, in this situation it's impossible and certain moves have already been announced in that direction. I don't know how this belt tightening will affect overall relations in the government, because some parties have already threatened that if the existing salaries and pensions are touched, the new government will be short-lived. In public finances, the situation is really alarming and it is quite clear that even the budget rebalance adopted in July is not realistic and that if there is no further reduction of some expenditure, the deficit will stop far above the planned 178 billion dinars. By the end of July, there were 463 billion dinars, and now there is one problem. By the end of the year, it takes an average of 82 billion dinars per month to charge as much as the rebalance planned each month. Unfortunately, that's not realistic this year, because I'll remind you the average of all months was 66 billion. So we have to have 82 for every month by the end of the year, and the average is 66. It was an extraordinary month, it was July, but he didn't get to the average either. The income was 80.4 billion dinars, and I'd like the forecast to be realized and this to happen, but I'm still expressing a dose of skepticism. As for capital investments, let me add, you will have a difficult task to prepare soon by my estimates in November the next rebalancing, because I say once again skeptical that this forecast will be realized. As far as capital investments are concerned, I would like to quote one document, which is a fiscal strategy in which I quote: "economic recovery and restructuring of the Serbian economy will significantly contribute to reducing irrational public consumption and increasing investment consumption, which would encourage economic growth and employment". This provision has nothing to object to, but for the first seven months of this year, 42 billion dinars planned for capital investment were spent exactly 25%, 10.7 billion dinars in seven months, 25%. I think it's very important that you insist on this. If this doesn't come true, it'll be one of the government's big mistakes. It's already a mistake. It's been seven good months. It's been a lot of beautiful months, and now it's practically four months to spend 75% of this money, because this money for capital investment is the kind that generates economic development and the work of domestic businesses. As far as borrowing is concerned, I'd like to say, even though it was an announcement, it wasn't done, and that's my criticism, no public debt management strategy was made. I recommend that you do everything you can right now in these few months to make a new strategy, because I'm sure you can, because in a year, the government is in charge of 3.6 billion euros. In late July 2012, the public debt was 15.5 billion euros, and today it is 19.1. Of course, it's not just your fault, you inherited, you have to pay from the previous period of obligation, but it'll be your fault, unless you make a new public debt management strategy and it's urgent. Also, I'll repeat what we've been saying here for five years. Borrowing makes sense, the sea also serves all obligations, debts, etc., but borrowing only because of public spending is wrong, there must be a balance, where it must always be included in the real sectors of the economy. As far as domestic economy is concerned, the main challenge, I repeat, will be employment. We've talked about new industrialization several times, and of course foreign investors are extremely important to us, and that should be a strategy, but everything has to be done, that of these 216 thousand entrepreneurs and 100,000 companies, that's 300 thousand businesses, potential, and if we solve a major problem that's really huge, and that's liquidity, and on the other hand, the growth of the grey economy, the main challenge will be to help the liquidity of the companies, because these 300 thousand companies, if each third one employed by one man, that's 100,000 employees a year, for four years is 400 thousand and that's some challenge that could happen. Unfortunately, that has not been a great deal of attention in the past year. When domestic companies work, they have this network of suppliers, a subcontractor who is a large investor and usually brings it from abroad. When we have big investors from abroad, it's very common that suppliers, some counter-agents come from abroad. They're slowly starting to develop a network of domestic suppliers, but they're already doing domestic business, and I think there's a huge potential. You'd say the same thing, where's the funds from? First question, where the funds come from, and I'll repeat what we've been saying for a while. I am sure that with these relations that the Republic of Serbia has with the Russian Federation, in these three years, seven or eight billion euros of credit can be reached in several tranches, which would be part of the investment under favourable conditions, rather than on the market today and this is a very important thing, a political strategy and of those seven, eight billion, certainly that most could be invested in infrastructure and domestic economy. As far as agriculture is concerned, agriculture employs 500,000 people directly, and by estimates a million indirectly despite its developmental nature, agriculture also has a social character. The key thing is what we oppose in agriculture, it is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because from 2008 to 2013 every year we have just three hundred million euros less tax revenue in the budget due to the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. For these five years, 1.5 billion euros, we have less due to the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Since Mr. Minister, your predecessor, Mr. Knezevic and Prime Minister Dacic have said several times that they will do what we have insisted on several times, which is to initiate the 41 safeguard clause. Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which allows us to delay the application of full liberalisation of agricultural products imports from 1 January 2014. We are the only country, of all the countries that have joined the EU, which has the longest period of full liberalisation. We're not going in, to keep what this government promises before 2020 or 2025. We'll have the longest time when ours is, and so weak, exposed literally to the difficult competition of everyone else. Pull the safeguard clause, we'll back you up on that. I'm sure if you run that mechanism, you can have success. We'll have more time to talk. I recommend you start a dedicated industry, also in collaboration with our friends from Russia, China and the UAE. As for Telekom, since I don't have much time, I'd just add that telecommunications and information technology are generators and employment and businesses. We today have the potential of 200 grand in the next five to 10 years of young IT experts who can work on exports. This potential was calculated in Microsoft that it is close to two hundred thousand people in Serbia and close to seven billion euros in annual exports within five to 10 years. That potential is also extremely important. We, having heard some talks about the sale of Telekom, are hard against the sale of Telekom because today the price is very low, that's number one. Number two, I think you can attract foreign experts right in Telekom, bring them in to restructure Telekom, it's a coke that keeps bringing eggs. To sell it, you'll get some numbers, you've said it yourself, you don't even know where to invest, so insist not on selling Telekom, attract foreign experts who can restructure this business, I'm sure how good we have management that we can generally have great results. In the end, I'd mention one thing, I can't help but mention it even though I'm in opposition, I have to commend, it's this strategic partnership between JAT and Etihad. That's the way it works, that's the way, and here's what we're showing you, we criticise you the most, but whenever it comes to Serbia's interest, when you're doing it right, all the praises for this agreement. As far as foreign trade diversification is concerned, we as a state must ensure that, because relying on only one partner, where we export almost 60% of all goods is dangerous. I'm just going to give you an example of Poland. Poland has reduced exports to the EU twice in the past four years, internal exports, and nearly doubled exports to Russia, Poland. I think it's a strategy you'd have to use. Finally, since there is little time left, I would like to say, we have EU agencies, European integration agencies or offices, there are several EU agencies. I suggest you open three new offices. These offices have almost all major EU countries. Open a co-operation office with Russia, a co-operation office with China, a co-operation office with the UAE. There are dozens of agencies that we don't know what they're doing, and these three are the generator of new exports and potentially new jobs. Finally, to conclude, there is no magic wand. Don't promise too much because in the first year, if you just stop the fall, it stabilizes the situation, it's already a success. Second, third year can bring slight growth, no big jumps. I respect the efforts and work of many ministers in this government, I think some are doing really well, but as a team, I don't think the government has that quality, but what's the biggest problem? I'll do it again, it's not a problem in people, there are good people here, very good, great even, but I have to say... (President: Time. I'm done. Old politics towards Kosovo and the EU cannot be implemented, and we expect something to be better. The only way is either to change politics or go to new elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22915	Thank you. I'm setting a break for an hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. People's MP Alexander Pejcic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22917	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the President, Article 27. - the dignity of the National Assembly. As we conduct an extremely constructive debate here, the candidates for ministers tweet and send certain messages. Among other things, one of the candidates for the minister sent a message and I'll read it here in front of you all. "Is anyone watching the Assembly, i.e. A joke, where MPs walk, whisper, texting on their cell phones, sleeping, yawning, drinking coffee and stuff? “ I hope that future candidates for the minister, i.e. At this moment, the citizens, when they get the right, when they're elected ministers, will apologize first and foremost to this house and to us, to the MPs. Also, I expect the Prime Minister... (President: Tell us who it is that we don't talk casually? I don't want this moment to... (President: Well, don't. Then we can't be credible that you're telling the truth. ) Mr. Vanja Udovici wrote this tweet. I expect Mr. Udovicic, when he has the opportunity to report, to apologize to this home and that the prime minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, who is calling for 23 years of parliament, will at least instruct his candidates for the minister in elementary matters, to respect this institution, to respect the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22918	Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22919	I just want to tell you, since I've known Vanju Udovica for a long time, I didn't meet him the day before or yesterday, now I've talked to him, Vanja Udovici doesn't have a Twitter warrant at all. It's from some fake warrant released. That's what you could have asked. I think I have at least three or four fake warrants. You could have asked a man if he did it or not. On the other hand, and if he had made such a mistake, it's quite certain that he would apologize to you, I would apologize to you, and anyone would apologize to you, and there wouldn't be any problem, but you should have just asked a man if it was his warrant or not. He says he doesn't have a warrant at all and I absolutely trust him because I know how calm, patient and patient he is. I know how he talked to us, and I know he'd never do anything like that. You know, if we read what some people say in this room, not what goes with their warrants, that dog with the butter wouldn't swallow it. What you read was unacceptable to say to the minister of parliament or to the future minister of parliament, but that's the 50th part of what you said to the ministers. Anyway, if that were the case, we'd apologize to you as Government, the minister would apologize to you in the future, but since it wasn't the case, I'm just asking you to ask or check in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22920	National MP Marijan Risticevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 on article 107. Let me read what article 103 is about. Therefore, MPs have the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. A member of 107, who reads: “The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament, to use offensive expressions, or to give facts from assessments relating to the private life of others. “ Since a member of 107 is advertised, I wonder what the events on Twitter and social networks have to do with it and “no direct address is allowed at the session of the National Assembly, ” etc. The Rules of Procedure explicitly regulate events in the session of the National Assembly, not on social networks. Whether the profile is false or not, that's not the case for advertising the Rules of Procedure. I've got six fake profiles. It's only my seventh. So he could have written anything. You can even write on the Internet who you want. I don't see what the connection is between social networks and the National Assembly meetings, because the 107 member explicitly regulates events that occur and people's MPs perform, and therefore most likely ministers and future ministers, at the National Assembly session, rather than on social networks. Social media performances are subject to social networking and future MPs should address real and false profiles as much as they want, because these are not cases of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22922	You're absolutely right. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be done during a session that takes place and can only be done by the President of the National Assembly. Everything that happens outside the hall and outside the session is not the subject of the Rules of Procedure and is being arranged by some other legal acts of this State. So you're absolutely right. We're continuing our work on the agenda. The speaker of the parliamentary group DS Borislav Stefanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22923	President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers and candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, after six months of barrage fire through the media, creating a fake picture in our public, big announcements, big words, toys for a people who lasted six months, we got people sitting here today in front of us. Some are old faces, and some are new faces. Some are party, some are non-party. We have person A and person B. We saw that yesterday and today. Person A - I am the Prime Minister of Serbia. Person B – no, I am the president of the Serbian government. Person A - I have exposés. Person B - no, I have exposés. So that looked about like it. I need to separate all the doubts and suspicions immediately. We don't mind anything. We wish, we rejoice when Mr. Vukic speaks in this assembly and I think it's useful. I think it's useful when the Prime Minister speaks. I also think it's useful, as we've mentioned many times, that the Prime Minister in his exposé or in private knows something about candidates, about people who will be his ministers. We also think it's useful that when we point out and ask you very specific questions, we get, if possible, as specific answers as possible. Instead, in this exposé, we heard about the highlight of making comparisons between 2008 and 2012, and, secondly, that the belt should be tightened and the revenues are realised, that savings should be made. If the government thinks it's successful, it has to be good. I think that was really the highlight of what we heard yesterday and today by the government, because we also heard very closely that here in this assembly the opposition is actually asking questions. So you're questioning us, which, of course, you're showing your own, seems to me, somewhat insecure, since you have a superior majority, although it may not be superior, as we've heard today, and in that sense, there's really no need to argue with those who, as you say, don't exist, represent anything like that. What is certain is that we have received an old government which, I will not repeat, in all segments of life, unfortunately, in the last year left worse results than it has before, that the only thing that has been positively done is the continuation of European integration, but rather without getting a date concrete and, secondly, progress in talks with Pristina, in which the DS has otherwise given support. Since you yourself said it was the best government in Serbia's history, I repeat the tenth question – why did you change it? The argument that someone should be given the air to jump the ladder and run longer must have some measurable essence, but we haven't heard. Why has Alisa Maric been replaced, and some who sit here are and why Minister Mrkonjic has been removed, and Mr Bacevic is not and why, if it is the best government, have you changed it? We think that this government, Mr. Dacic, is the worst government in the 21st century Serbia. Of course, we have very specific indicators, which we would like, to answer with arguments, not continuous accusations, and indeed inappropriate in an emotional debate. What is certain is that citizens, unfortunately, live worse from month to month, that there are no investments, that unemployment is growing, that the wrong economic measures are being slowed down, that the average is paid and pensions, as we said, are more times lower by 5% and that 51.2 young people are unemployed. I'm not going to repeat those numbers we don't normally agree on. But we agree that you did not lift the agencies you promised, and we agree that you hired over 10,000 party soldiers during that period. It is also symptomatic that Mr. Vukic and the SNS refuse to take responsibility for Serbia's most important life issues, which are primarily business and personal incomes. It was before Dinkic, who was expelled from the government by person A, i.e. Prime Minister and returned to the government by an old person B, i.e. Prime Minister. So that's now the situation we have. This is at the same time a confirmation that the SNS does not have and has never had economic policy, attitude, plan and programme. And that's also true, that without that economic policy, we don't have any progress. We have, in fact, a new buy of time, dear citizens of Serbia. Until these fires under the chairs of one and the other coalition partners burn, when they burn these little sparks that we heard between the PUPS and the Government will become a fire that cannot be stopped. The question is, can anyone in their right mind blame this government for bringing professional people into its system? Of course not. Does anyone mind the youth of Lazar Krstic? No, I don't. Does anyone mind being educated abroad? Of course not. It bothered us, and it bothers us if someone like Dominic Stros Khan would come as a minister, or similar people, or Mr. Mendelson, as mentioned in some media. That's what would bother us, because no one voted for those people. Otherwise, bringing in young experts from abroad, I'll remind you, it's starting to work for the DS. What's for sure is that someone's youth can be just about us plus, but the same is the fact that keeping the budget and state finances isn't something to put people in, in fact at the beginning of a career, with a wave of finance for private companies, not public finances. What's also certain, if this government didn't have a program, and not only does it not have a professional basis and competent people, because if it had a SNS, it would put them in a match right now, and not now keep them on some secret spare bench. I'm sure Mr. Dzelitovic would be, say, in FAP, "Zupi", or "14 October", and not now be completely out of the government, but Mr. Vukic rightly said it was your internal party problem and the pressure you are suffering. I think it was your turn to come out with specific numbers, even the basic ones. What's the deficit going to be? Will you do the rebalancing for the third time? What are you going to do with the farmers? How long will it be till the end of the year? How many holes do you plan to tighten on that belt and which holes? Will you cut your wages and pensions, gentlemen? Increase the price of electricity, gas, market level, lay off employees in education, health care, etc.? Not a word about it. Not a word in the prime minister's exposure to security. In a situation where the increase in crime is over 50%, when organized crime groups are not arrested, in general criminality. When Novi Sad doesn't have a police chief for three years, that's not a word. What we've heard is essentially repeating phrases and blanks. What we haven't heard what you're going to do specifically as part of the reform of education, health, pension system, labour markets, public enterprises, the price of communals, and at the end of the security system? What's also certain, that there is a series, and I'll remind you, you said yesterday that this was a government that never lied to Serbian citizens, and never lied abroad, okay. Let's just remind ourselves of some things. You have passed a law on public procurement for which you promised to save 800m euros. That's not gonna happen. Why did you pompously announce the law when you don't apply it at all? Let's not talk about the quick answer office. It's already become legendary. You didn't cancel any agencies and you promised over 70. Investments, you know that. Ten billion euros a year, I don't know if we made it to 200 million. After the wrong economic policy, gentlemen, led the country to bankruptcy and replaced Mladjan Dinkic, will anything change? Will tax laws, which have been taken away from citizens over 300 million a year, be returned, and will these laws change? Will the privileged banking sector and the biggest interest in Europe be restrained in any way, as the DS suggests? How will you stop the unsustainable growth of public debt? When are you going to stop party shooting in public enterprises? How do you plan to stop a dizzy growth in unemployment? What are you going to do with Vršački Vineyards, the Jugobanka Hotel in Kopalnik and the solar energy company that was talking about? That's what I think it's right to answer very specifically, not with accusations, and when you were then it was a disaster. That I don't think anyone's interested in anymore since you've proven yourself you can really go up there. I'll remind you, I wouldn't do this, but we've had a chance to hear a bold claim that you've never avoided the truth and that you've always stood in the positions of what you say. I think it's the duty of the opposition to hold your word and remind the citizens of that, aflatoxin, an affair you say doesn't exist. Why was Goran Knezevic removed? That's what I asked last time, I didn't get an answer. If it's made-up aflatoxin, I accept it's made-up. Then why did you replace him? If it wasn't invented, why did you tell Mr. Wolfie on March 4, 2013 at RTS that you would return the limit of aflatoxin to 0,05 to 15 March, and you didn't do it? You said you'd be taking over the SNS Minister by March 15th, i.e. make a decision. You said whoever was helping Antonic was going to be caught on the run and that he would answer. That's what you said on August 8, 2012. You said you'd solve the listening to President Nikolic and you personally as soon as possible. You said that on 4 November 2012, you said there would be arrests for wheat malfeasance Tuesday 27 November 2012. That's what you said on November 25th, 2012. He passed that Tuesday. You said you'd be processed by a close person within the next month. That's what you said on October 10th, 2012. Right after you took over, you said you were going to form this phantom office for quick answers. For Mr. Cvian's affair, you said he'd be relieved if it was proved in any way that he was pressuring the court. That's what you said on January 28, 2013. The only thing ladies and gentlemen who have changed in Serbia is Mr. Vukic. Nothing else has changed. The only thing that remains unknown, we don't mind having controversy at all, I think it's healthy for our democracy and for Serbia's progress, but we don't know what your portfolio is, Mr. Vukicou. It's impossible to have all the resistors in your hands in this country, since you're wondering about everything and since you decide everything. Otherwise, I'd like to inform you that there's already talk in Serbia that you have a portfolio, that it's the Ministry of Fear and that it's something that I think we should all be worried about. You said there would be savings and development in this government. You told Mr. Dacic at the last exposé you wouldn't call in the austerity measures, and in this one you said you would. I want to know what Mr. Krstic thinks about it. What is his neoliberal, economic position on this matter? I think it's sad that the Prime Minister doesn't know what the average pension in Serbia is, and he doesn't know how minimal it is. The average is 23 grand, and the lowest is about 13,000 dinars. Will the new government fire 50 or 100 thousand workers they say are surpluses in state-owned enterprises? Will you raise the age for retirement and how will the PUPS react? How will you help peasants and agrarians specifically? Why did the SNS bring the experts and the SPS party people to the government? Which, I must say, if there are any bad moves, and unfortunately everything tells us they will, you'll be as guilty as if, normally, the people of your party. You said yesterday in the exposé that we introduced zero tolerance for tax evasion. The Democratic Party supports it and welcomes it. Does this mean that Mr. Petkovic, the former minister, paid an eight-million-dollar tax? If it is, fine. We are also interested in what will be the solution to the affair Sarić Darko, i.e. when that story ends with the arrest of that man. I won't remind you of what you said. Personally I think it's a positive we support you in that, but I remind you that there were talks about 120 unheard, unspeakable disks. When are you going to examine them? When are we going to hear the epilogue of this whole situation? I think it's important for the citizens of Serbia. The question of Luke Bojovic, etc., I think we've talked a lot about people who were released, and they shouldn't have. That's the independent justice they're talking about. What's also true is that this government has some new people sitting here in front of us. And that's what I'm gonna end up with. Dear citizens, there are some old faces here, there are new ones. We have two ministers without portfolios in this government. One is a portfolio-free minister in front of the SPS, and the SNS has introduced Mr Vulin as the second minister without portfolios. They are, ladies and gentlemen, each other's balance and tasters and some balance of power and strength. What's also certain, as far as Mr. Vulin is concerned, I think it's our turn to hear what's going to happen to the Kosovo and Metohija Office, who's going to lead her. I also think it's the turn - did you finish the job you promised to register all people who receive social and other contributions from the Republic of Serbia's budget and who do not live in Kosovo and Metohija? I wish your answer was confirmed and that it was done. I don't think so. Is it true, Mr. Radulovich, that you are still a bankruptcy manager in 14 companies, i.e. You didn't have time to resign? Maybe we're wrong, but on the credit card agency site, it says you failed to resign. If that's true, you know it can be a problem of conflict of interest. I think it would be your turn to explain to us how you intend to handle it. What we would also like to know, of course, as the man who comes from Novi Sad, there is the inevitable Mr Mirovic. Today, there were posters in Novi Sad who personally worried me very much as a citizen. I have to ask - Mr. Mirovic, is there a grain of truth in the things they accuse you of? I know you're gonna say it, but still, I think it's really bad and I don't think it's right for this government to work. If the cloud of suspicion stands above you, Mr. Mirovic, if you were directly involved in privatisation, one of the 24 controversial ATP Vojvodinas, and there, for example, Mr. Vukic could start with, let's say, cleaning the house from his own hoofs. But we also have the Behaton question in Novi Sad, as you know, very serious accusations on your account, on your personal wealth and the acquisition of a truly great fortune. I really don't doubt it personally whether it's true or not. I'll keep it straight for myself to think what I want. But I also think that you, as a candidate for the minister in a very responsible portfolio, should in some way look back at the things that are being said for you, which, if I think, are partly true, is very harmful by the work of the Serbian Government, if you will, is also very harmful for what Mr. Vukic is doing, since he is in colluding with his declared fight against corruption and crime and of course, but he is not in conflict with what members of the DS are doing every day on the tabloids that you control. Sashi Dragin's detention is extended and we unfortunately enter a country where it's much more important who's ours and who's theirs, who's against and who's in favour, so you can arrange the election. But I also have to say in the end, the DS ruled for a very difficult period of four years, and we lost power. We lost in the election. I'm standing right here in front of you and I'm asking some legitimate questions. If your answer will be a return to the past, which you've been doing for the last two days, first, please both as a man and as an MP not to waste time and energy on it. Let's just say I can forget everything you've done in the last 20 years. Maybe the citizens of Serbia can't, but I can, because I know it's important what you do from now on. The fact is that this government, with conflicts of mutual conflict, with conflicts of interest, can hardly survive, and not because of us from the opposition, because you say that we do not exist, but because of you. As you are, gentlemen, no government will do you any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22924	The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this has been the champion's smallest speech ever held by someone in the National Assembly, but you don't have to yell, you don't have to cry, you don't have to do any of that, no matter how much Mr. Gilas has suggested to you that it is necessary at your sessions, that you try to prove yourself and show yourself. Don't worry, you can't catch up with him for malignancy or wealth. So, just a little patience and I'll explain everything to you and answer every question. About person A and person B, perhaps, but still stands that "person", thank you for that. Who it came from, we did well. As far as the exposé is concerned, Mr. Dacic has expressed his exposés, and I have mostly responded to your incomparable remarks. And today I will show the citizens of Serbia how pointless and unsuspecting they are. You asked for concrete answers in a very irresponsible and irresponsible way. You deceived Serbian citizens by saying that in all segments of social life it is worse. Almost no segment of social life is any worse, almost none at all. All the data is talking about it. You said, "Brown-headed unemployment growth." Why do you deceive Serbian citizens? I want to give the citizens of Serbia information, accurate, clear. Statistics can sometimes hide something, but rarely reveal a lot. At the time you came to power, in 2008, the level of unemployment in Serbia was 14.8%. When the people of Mr Stefanovic and Mr Gilas came to power, we received the highest unemployment rate in Europe of 25.9% in four years. So, in just four years, they raised the unemployment rate from 14.8 to 25.9%. This is important for the citizens of Serbia. Today, Serbia's unemployment rate is 24.3%. If 24.3 is compared to 25.9 light-headed growth, then Mr. Stefanovic is right. It's like when he said there were zero charges in the field of organized crime. There are 180 of them. And that's okay if zero is equal to 180. I think the citizens of Serbia see that difference. Mr Stefanovic said that SNS does not take responsibility in key areas of social life and that it is afraid of that responsibility. In fact, he talked all the time with obsessive hatred of the SNS and of me personally, but I know it's a warrant. And the fact that you're going to be drinking, that you're going to throw away all the time, that you're going to say ugly words, I'm not even fascinated, I'm not afraid at all, because I know what you would do, I know what you were doing, and I know what you would do in the future. Fortunately, both the citizens of Serbia and how well they know, which affects you the most. That's why all your barbaric fire and all your untruths are mostly trying to say here about SNS and me. We've brought in the most competent people, and we're taking responsibility and we're not hiding from anyone. We're not hiding and we're not running away from you either. It's hard for us to talk like that. We would like to talk in an uncompared, more serious and more responsible way. But we don't have a problem with always answering a bunch of nonsense, because people in Serbia know what's true and what's not. You say Djelitovic would be in FAP, "Zupi". What are you two getting mixed up in intrinsic relations? You've got a lot more to worry about. You have seven currents here. Five of them, or five of them, hit the benches. Some got away, some got out, some got away, some went against you. Worry about your concerns. When we're not interested in your concerns that, believe me, are much bigger than ours, don't worry about our concerns. Mr Dželitovic normally works in another public company and is very committed and very well worked, but you haven't asked around, so next time you better prepare for the session. You say and talk about the general crime rate. I must inform you that the highest percentage in Serbia has never been solved -- 87.5%. We're just solving everything from your period. We have the most difficult forms of crime - production and sales of intoxicating drugs. We're trying to catch all the biggest drug-dealing networks in southern and southeast Serbia. All the things you've left behind in the amannet, and those people have been doing for 10 years. It is about the brothers Ijkonić and many others who are doing the job. You have left us with the most severe forms of crime, with them to fight and fight them and we will defeat them. You said the Public Procurement Act was supposed to bring in 800 million, and it didn't bring in anything. You show your elemental ignorance. I could say the hard thing, but it's elemental ignorance. It wasn't until April next year that someone was supposed to inform you, we'll be able to know the effects of the Public Procurement Act. By the way, in order for the people who voted for the DS to know, Mr Stefanovic is always criticising the law that received the highest marks and the highest praise from the EU, from the European Commission, from the OSCE, even from the Venice Commission, and we have asked them for a grade and we have shown everyone that we can and we expect that the savings will be between 300 and 500 million, but we will know it only after a year of application of that law. It's only possible then. And the law is applied, to remind you, from April 1st of this year, everything you don't know. As far as the agency is concerned, you told the citizens we didn't lift any. We've shut down 19 agencies. We wanted a lot more to end. The EU has asked us to return two, if I am not mistaken, and then another. We'll have to deal with it, but in the end, we've abolished 16 of the many insignificant, nonexistent and who have served to accommodate your personnel. Where did you make that up? At the meetings of your party's parliamentary group, or Gilasu's thought of it, come on, make it up, get along, so what does it matter if it turns out that someone hired 10,000 party people, it comes to your mind. And we have official data that when you entered the Republic in 2000, there were 9,870 employees, and in 2012, 28.914. Only 19,000 people were employed in the administration, at the expense of the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. I'm talking about accurate data. I can't speak any other way. You were also talking about aflatoxin here. From aflatoxin, you are right, Goran Knezevic did not come out as a winner, although I did not judge him for the affair at any moment, because this affair aflatoxin was caused by irresponsible, uneducated and people who wanted to harm Serbia, and they did great damage to Serbia, such as Goran Jesic and similar to him, including DS, who carried the whole story. Because whenever it was necessary to harm Serbia, farmers, peasants, our country, that's where you got ahead, that's where you were first, and that's what you did, and that's what you did about aflatoxin. It's hard for you to put up with the truth. It's hard for you to hear the arguments. You'll listen to them. I've been listening to lies and nonsense for 20 minutes, and now you're going to hear some arguments, and you're going to hear exact figures. As for listening, I would like to inform you, and you do not seem to be informed to Mr Stefanovic that the persons who tried to listen, both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, have been brought to justice, and right after the action was launched. Four people have been detained. As for Mr. Antonic, you're right. I was probably protecting Mr. Antonic, and 29 others have been charged and are already being prosecuted. As for Mr. Cvian, anything at any time proven in any way about any kind of pressure, to bring me any paper, except for the officials and members of the family and the people of the DS, that moment Mr. Cvian will be processed, even though he's in this room, and I can speak freely in front of him, but when it's proven. As far as my jurisdiction is concerned, you first spoke – you have a lot and now you don't know what it is, so you mentioned "the Ministry of Fear", I guess because I'm the only one who doesn't fear the wealth of Dragan Gilas, I guess because I'm the only one who doesn't fear all of his couples and all of his media, I guess because I'm the only one in this country you can't get in the way because he can deal with criminals from our ranks and from your ranks, and that's why I'm bothering you. That's why I'm bothering you, and the citizens of Serbia need to know very well. I'm disturbing you because I won't let you talk about Igor Mirovic as a rich man, and your prosecutor's office brought him an act in 2006 to suspend further investigation against him. Your D.A.'s office. Why didn't you arrest him? Tell that to the citizens. You're talking about "Behaton" in 2004. Why didn't you arrest him? Why didn't your police arrest him? Why didn't Mr. Rakic arrest him? Why didn't you arrest him at the time? You also had 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, so nothing. It means he's not a criminal. And who's all criminals, there's plenty of time left to establish. We're just doing these 24 investigations. These 24 investigations include ATP Vojvodina. As I find out in the cut I'm getting, as head of the service, that subject seems to be over and expected to be realized. I'm just afraid you'll be surprised. It's the only thing that scares me, I think. As for Mr. Saric, my question to Mr. Stefanovic is – that Gilas and you didn't arrest him? I guarantee you I'll arrest him. Gilas and you weren't capable, and I'm telling you I'm going to arrest him. That's what we're different about. See, that's the difference in results. That's the difference in results. You chased him for four years, you didn't catch him for four years. We've been chasing him for a year. After that, tell me after four years, you were just as unsuccessful as we were. And if we do, we'll see about that. I think a lot less will wait, and the result will be incomparably different. You were talking about disks, I guess, thinking about bananas, and I don't know what. Since, like that, when you're not going to say it exactly and everyone needs to understand what it's about, so you don't get too angry with Dacic, don't you want to keep robbing Belgrade and Belgrade without telling me in such a way, and then you expect me not to answer that. I must tell you that it will be investigated as well. Everything will be investigated. We're not protected. Everything against Vukic will be investigated, everything against Dacic will be investigated, but everything will be investigated against the almighty and richest, one of the richest tycoons in this country, Dragan Gilas. I think that's fair. I think it is the most honest thing in this country, that no one hides behind anyone – neither I behind anyone, nor Mr. Dacic behind anyone, nor Mr. Gilas, even if we do not hide behind our wealth. I think it's very, very fair. As for 50,000 to 100,000 workers, you know as Mr Stefanovic says, this is what I want to say because of the citizens of Serbia, he is on the one hand in favour of reforms, on the one hand he would like to be efficient businesses and tell foreigners and then tell the people – but they want to fire these workers. Are you willing to fire us or not fire us? I didn't understand you at all. We'll make sure we fire as few people as possible and make as many healthy companies as possible. That's what we're gonna do. We just haven't heard what it is you're for? That's all we couldn't hear. As for Luke Boyovic, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Boyovic is in jail. Nikola Bojovic's murderers have been arrested in newly established co-operation between Serbian and Montenegrin police, which I think is good news for Serbian citizens. As for the detentions you're talking about, otherwise I'm against detention, as an institute, which is rarely used with numerous abuses, especially in the previous period, but I wouldn't rule out that there are no such things today. However, that is what you are telling us who held Goran Knezevic in custody for 14 months. For fourteen months, the man was held in custody, who received an acquittal, who did not hide from the court and fled from the courts, but came to every hearing and eventually received a release. He didn't want to sue the state of Serbia. Goran Knezevic is a high moral man and did not want to take millions of euros from the Serbian state. That's what we'd have to pay for today's bullshit, and not just bullshit about how you ruined a man's life. He's got four little kids. Been in custody for 14 months. You couldn't press charges in 14 months. When you filed the indictment, she was so strong that the judges made a release ruling. And here you are salting our minds about the use and abuse of the detention institute. Do you think the citizens of Serbia know nothing? Do you think that your hatred, and only hatred, and nothing else, can beat the arguments? Here's to every word you've said I've answered, every word. I'm not on the posters in Novi Sad yet. I'm very worried about the posters that showed up in New Sad. I'm worried because I know they were printed by the Democratic Party, and she didn't print them with my character, but with Igor Mirovic's character, which means Igor Mirovic began to endanger me in your obsessive hatred of someone from the Serbian Progressive Party. I am very jealous of Igor Mirovic on this issue. I expected you to print out posters with my character, not Igor Mirovic's character or at least put us together. I don't mind a society like that, and that would be fine, but I'm against company with you. You see, Mr. Krkobic, if he's here, who's who's favorite and how to talk when it's open-minded. That is a very nice open conversation, as Mr Stefanovic pointed out. I've always loved those open conversations the most. When he asks every question and every question gets an answer. There's one question he didn't get an answer for. Since he said the tenth time he set him up, why does the government change him? I'll try to answer it the 11th time, because I once predicted they'd say it. I read what the richest politician in Serbia said in some newspapers, and then they repeated it 50 times. Then I answered in advance, so the 11th time I answer, and I want to say it because of the citizens of Serbia. So, unlike the Democratic Party that tried to reconstruct it when it got the Emperor to the duvar and when they had an incomparably lower rating than many political parties, we are doing it at the height of political power and political power because we want to do much better and much more things for Serbia. We want to show, yes, we did something, we made some moves. We think it's better in certain spheres, but we think it can and must be much better. That's our policy. If someone doesn't understand that someone wants better and that they don't satisfy themselves, and that it's the hardest and the biggest judge himself, that it's the one who's going to weigh or worse than you, then I don't think that's the problem with us, it's the problem with you. That answer is so specific, so serious and so responsible, that nothing can be added or taken away. Our goal is for Serbia to be a normal, decent and orderly country. A country where you won't be able to say one day that there's zero counts of organized crime, and the next day you're saying there's no record of the Public Procurement Act, which we can only establish in seven months or eight months. You know all that, but the only thing you know is to pour hate, thinking Serbian citizens will understand that this is the worst thing, so they will turn against them and seek salvation in you. Maybe. We will always accept the people's will, but as it seems to me, the people's will is not at present something that you might be able to raise yourself up to and to which you could cultivate your political ideas or to grow your political desires. In the end, I just want to say one thing to you, to end up at the same time as Mr Stefanovic, I'm sorry if it's 12 seconds, I know that you can make arrangements, I know why I'm bothering you, and I will always, I promise you, not as a political party, but as individuals, not everyone from your party, you few, you, Mr. Gilas and a few other people. I'll always bother you. Not everyone. There are many, many good, honest, serious and responsible people. Many people who can help Serbia in different ways, and you two and others, in this room there are seven, eight, I will always bother you. I will disturb you because you will not be able to make Serbia in which you are allowed, you are forgiven in advance, and no one else is allowed to say anything to you, or do anything against you. You are allowed to be the richest in this country, you are allowed to have a monopoly on whatever you want, to do the business you want, that has to do MBA Miljkovic on the Chinese bridge, that another company has to work on the second bridge, on the third, and that other people can't even notice it. No, we're not going to do the same, but I'm bothering you because I'll always notice and never be afraid of you. Your wealth doesn't scare me, your wealth inspires me to strike more honestly, even more courageously and even harder on corruption and crime in this country, and you won't stop me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22926	The word has Prime Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22927	Let me answer Mr. Stefanovic to what he was talking about. True, I don't know if he spoke as head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, or as political director of the Foreign Ministry, as he still receives his salary. I don't really know if he's your man in our ranks, or yours in ours, or if he's in our ranks. You looked a little like Marks when you were talking about the people, except he was talking about opium for the people, and you're talking about toys for the people. Since you're already talking to a man named A, person B, I must tell you that in your time there was neither person A, or person B, but person C, or Boris Tadic. He was also the prime minister, and the deputy prime minister, and everything. Let me tell you one thing, whoever the Prime Minister is person A, or person B, or person D, or person E, your position will always remain the same. I was talking about 2008, I already explained that, because that's the year when the economic crisis started. I wasn't talking about the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, but I was talking about economic parameters, which began to fall during the global economic crisis. It has nothing to do with it, nor was it motivated by any parameters that would be attached during the functioning of that government. We're all on the stand, both us and you. When you talk about party people proposed by the SPS, SNS experts, let me tell you one thing. The Socialist Party of Serbia has proposed to this government Branko Ruzic, Aleksandr Antic, as party people and Ivan Tasovac and Tomislav Jovanovic, as non-party candidates and jointly with Mr Vukic, respectively, SNS, Vanju Udovic, also as a non-party candidate. Maybe you weren't well informed. You might be getting information from these information bulletins that come out every day. When it comes to belt tightening, in my exposé, I made it clear that you didn't read it either then, probably not now - so the economic policy, which I will represent as prime minister, will not call for saving and tightening of the citizens whose standard of living in the previous period, has suffered a drastic fall. I was saying that this government, the Assembly and all other parts of the state government, including the financial sector, must share the fate of their people, primarily in a socio-economic way. It cannot be called on to freeze or reduce wages and pensions, in which it increases both high wages and does not reduce any privileges it has as bearers of political or economic power. What I said back then, I mean now. It is illogical that someone supports, calls for the freezing of wages and pensions, and his salaries, such as the Fiscal Council, are their salaries of 150, I think, up to 200,000 dinars, 220 thousand dinars, says Mr. Vukic. It's easy for them, for them to freeze, they wouldn't feel anything, and when you freeze a salary or a pension with this 12,000, you see that, not only isn't it just, but it's not economically rational. Speaking of exposés, I will remind you that you, Mr. Stefanovic, have explained your candidates for ministers. January 24, 2001 - Zoran Djindjic. The government program is the programme DOS won the election. The program is also a program of this government. We're going to break it down, along with this exposé, in the break we're going to share it with the MPs. All that's written in that election program is our commitment to a mandate that we've won trust. So much for the exposé. It's not even during the reading, it's in the break. When it comes to candidates, I now come to the biography, the basic data of government members, first the Deputy Prime Minister. Zarko Korać, Nebojsa Čovic, Dusan Mihajlović, Jožef Kasa, Momcilo Perišić, Aleksandar Pradić, Vuk Obradovic. Ministers: Bozidar Djelic, Goran Novakovic, Vojislav Milovanovic, Goran Pitić, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic, Gašo Knezevic, Gordana Marković, Dragan Domazet, Dragoslav Šumarac, Obren Joksimović, Branislav Lečić, Vladan Batić, Dragan Milovanovic, Dragan Vesenov and Slobodan Milosavljevic. That, dear fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, is the program of our government and these are the people who need to implement it. So, Mr. Stefanovic, don't complain to others about something that wasn't practical in your time. In the end, you were talking about some fires under our chairs in the ruling majority. You said this was the worst government in the 21st century. One thing is strange, that the worst government in the 21st century has a superior majority and not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but in the people of Serbia. Could this people be the worst in the 21st century? Why are you fighting, ladies and gentlemen? Are you fighting for the trust of the people? What are the results of your work? I'm counting the votes you've got. Therefore, do not worry whether it will survive or not. I suppose your interest would be if the government fell. No, the only policy the DS has today is that the Kobajagi are fighting us, so I guess they get into that power, because otherwise they can't. Once again, I am absolutely not running away from any criticism aimed at discussing the essence of the society that is being advocated, the measures we are taking in economic policy, the foreign policy of this country. You say now – well, the Brussels Agreement, well, we got the start of negotiations, but we didn't get the date. You know what, I don't think it's right to disrespect what we've done. Whoever did this did the historic thing for Serbia, for our people, for our country, because we opened the door to Serbia's future. I won't, and I don't want to argue about sympathy or antipathy. I just want to argue about the essentials for Serbia. Which way do we want to go? What's our foreign policy position? What kind of problems are we gonna have? Republika Srpska, its position, the pressures that follow in BiH, the position of our people in KIM, relations in the region and stability in Serbia itself, the autonomy of Vojvodina, the problems we have in the south of Serbia, the problems in the Rasko area, are all the problems we all faced when we were in power. Every one of us here, ladies and gentlemen. Each of us has its share of the burden, the common cross that we carry as a state and as a people on our backs. I don't think it's evil for anyone to criticize someone, because where everyone thinks the same thing, no one thinks much. But let's take a big step forward and that's the goal of this government. That's why it's logical to say that the government will only be good if it's successful. Anyway, I don't think it's intended for anyone to fight now to be a person A, B, C, D, E. That's not the point. But, Mr. Stefanovic, it's not the basic way to perform your role as Kalimera, is it? I don't know, I didn't talk to Mrkic, if you're coming to perform that position as political director, since you're here every day at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I hope you have made a significant contribution to repairing Serbia's international position, which means that you are also supporting this government, because it is logical that you would resign to that post, or you are the expert we are constantly looking for. I'm not driving you from that place. I'm glad that the head of the opposition parliamentary group is the political director of the foreign ministry, but I just don't understand the relationship then, especially if you speak like a political director when you talk to others from other countries? Once again, who's the superior isn't measured here is measured by the election. As far as the election is concerned, as has been said 100 times here, there is no problem with them being held at any time. The only thing that matters here is what Serbia's best interest is in what time it is done. Our joint assessment was to try to realise the basic goals in the next period, which is to work in Serbia's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22928	I've got multiple reports on different grounds, so I'll read you the order. The first registered according to the Rules of Procedure is Mr. Srdjan Sajn, then according to the Rules of Procedure Mr. Zarko Korać, then the replica on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group - Zoran Babic, to the presentation of Borko Stefanovic, then Vladimir Cvian, a replica as a personal reference, and then the replica of Borislav Stefanovic to the presentation of Mr. Vukic. This is what has been reported so far in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, it's the Rules of Procedure. Anything I'd do differently would be against the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Shane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22929	Dear President, I would like to intervene because you violated Article 107 when you did not warn the speaker that he could not express himself in an offensive way and that he was saying that it was a minister or that he was talking about the person who runs the Ministry of Fear, first of all because it was a political party whose member SO Kovacica brutally attacked the natural voters who voted for the list "Let's Start Serbia", voters who were the same after being attacked by a police officer and he was detained for two days because of it...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22930	Mr. Shain, please, the breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot be detained in replication. That's what we said in the first part of the session. I understand. I took the doctor's word away less than two hours ago and I'm really begging you, I get the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22931	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22932	I ask you not to enter into this as regards something that does not happen at the National Assembly session, because the violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the chairman of the National Assembly session, so I ask you to complete your discussion accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22933	I just want to finish with the last sentence, say that the reaction is that you have a ministry and a government that fear criminals far better than having a government of which its members have fear and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22934	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Zarko Korać reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22935	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring to Article 104. Today, not for the first time, here is the subject of an exposé of Zoran Djindjic. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, what is the reason that he is extremely inappropriately returning to how he addressed the MPs? It's been 13 years since then and he's been killed. You were a good student of the Faculty of Political Sciences and you certainly learned that all things are interpreted in such a historic context, but I would like to remind you that September the transitional government was elected, because it was the Government of Yugoslavia, in which DOS was with the Montenegrin Party, and that the main Montenegrin party did not participate in the elections. So, the federal government was composed in one way, in December there were elections and Vojislav Seselj, as president of the SRS, said that he would sue us and that through the courts, which we were not inclined to...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22936	Mr. Korach, let me ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22937	I'm referring to the part where Mr. Dacic is talking about that Zoran Djindjic didn't have an exposé and he practically didn't say anything. It's an interpretation that anyone who watched this transmission or who was sitting in the O.R. could have won. I'm saying that's not true, that he had exposés, in the sense that he spoke. He said the DOS political programme, which was called "We Win and Everyone Win", was the political programme that citizens with almost 70% support chose in those elections. Citing this example in order to challenge the need to give in time of exposure is extremely inappropriate. There's one more thing I'd like to tell you. The MPs asked, perhaps not nervously, each in their own way, for candidates to appear...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22938	Mr. Korach, if I may, I must allow everyone at once.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22939	I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22940	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22941	I have the right to answer the word at any moment, I am the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Korac, I really didn't want to mention Zoran Djindjic in any negative context. This was just my reaction because the parliamentary group of parties whose president was Zoran Djindjic acted exactly the opposite of the practice they had all these 12 years ago. That's how it was when every government was elected. That's all I wanted. I didn't say Mr. Djindjic didn't have an exposé, I was just quoting the part about the program, regarding the distribution of exposés to lawmakers in the break, and here it was asked to be shared in advance. I also quoted the part that's responding to what you've all been looking for together, which is that I explain the biographies of candidates. What you haven't done, don't ask others. I mentioned it from that point of view. Otherwise, you know well that, as far as we're concerned, me personally and the party whose president I am, I absolutely don't want to say anything negative about the prime minister who was killed, about the prime minister who was killed by organized crime. It wasn't at all the goal of any of my replicas, speeches, etc. Many ideas, I must admit, many ideas that were started at that time, unfortunately, only this government was able to realize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22942	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Đuric answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22943	I'm reporting for an officer. 106th and 116th. Rules of Procedure. He has seriously offended the dignity of Mr Dacic's National Assembly. First, he said he was the prime minister, and then he asked the MPs or Mr Stefanovic, as the political director of the Foreign Ministry, whether it is Mr Stefanovic, whether these are the views he stands here in contact with foreigners or through the ministry? You're the prime minister, Mr. Dacic. Either you know it or you don't know it. It's not normal for me, if it's normal for you to have the head of the opposition party's parliamentary group as Director of the Foreign Ministry, but you're responsible for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22944	Mr. Djuric, it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22945	When you talk about Mr. Djindjic, he...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22946	I can't let you go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22947	I'm not finished. I've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22948	You've stepped down from the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you're getting in touch with the Prime Minister. I won't let anyone do that. Report to the Rules of Procedure again, and I'll give you my word, but the moment you move on to the replica, I won't allow you, either to you or to anyone else. The word is Mr. Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22949	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when someone like Mr. Stefanovic did it a few days ago comes out and says that the fight against corruption in Serbia is gone and that no indictment has been filed, and when he deceives all of us and the Serbian public, and when he is very reasoned with through a report by the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, we prove and document that 180 indictments have been filed and confirmed. The least I could expect was for the citizens of Serbia to come out and apologize to us, and to say forgive the dear fellow Members of the people, I was forced by the citizens of Serbia. I've been told by Dragan Gilas that I have to attack Alexander Vukic and SNS, I'm sorry I had to do that. The least I expected was an apology. An apology for hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs for the past four years. From 14.8% to 25.9% of how much you have left in this government of Serbia, the least you can say is to apologize to these people, not to worry about them now with some subsequent intelligence. Instead of apologizing, what did we get? We got a hypocrisy. A hypocritical concern for governmental personnel who will sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia. And what's the alternative? What are you giving us? Is the alternative to the graduate "Yala" possible Belic? What? Car carrier, mechanic, driver. What? The grey eminence of Belgrade? Chief operative, Dragan Gilas. Is that an alternative? Is the alternative to Professor Dragan Glamocan, say, Alexander Dr. Sapic, perhaps? Is that an alternative to what you offer Serbian citizens, Mr Stefanovic and DS and Dragan Gilas?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22950	Mr. Djuric according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22951	Articles 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. So you didn't warn the Prime Minister when he spoke beyond the agenda, and that he was below every level of dignity, mentioning a man and taking credit for having achieved something that was not achieved by the government of Zoran Djindjic, in relation to a man who wasn't alive, and who wasn't killed only in the act of criminal circles, but in a politically motivated murder. By the way, Mr Dacic made it possible to elect a new government, which led a completely opposite policy from the one that caused Zoran Djindjic to be killed in a political action.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22952	Dr. Radovanovic. Just on what grounds? Of course, Mr. Dacic is to have an advantage. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22953	You know what, I'm just gonna say something in one sentence. As far as Zoran Djindjic is concerned, I absolutely didn't say a word about it. When it comes to what I said that some of these ideas and methods of work may have been realized during this period, I had in mind that members of his family were also talking about some people from this government reminding themselves of Zoran Djindjic. You don't know better than they do. As far as I'm concerned, I don't need to justify myself to any of you because what I said, I know what my relationship to Zoran Djindjic was, was my political opponent, and you see how far your party is still on those ideas and where you've gone from it today. Therefore, if you think you are defending your party by now defending Zoran Djindjic from me, there is no need, because he was the Prime Minister, a memory of him we keep and continue the path we think is right, which is the way to Europe. Therefore, do not lead the controversy with me, for I am only talking about the manner and manner in which you have worked, and which you are now objecting to us. You have no right to do that. You're right, but you always have to say - we were wrong, and now you do different.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22954	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22955	Article 27, Mr. President. Obviously, you're trying to establish some preconditions for some minor or more normal discussion. I'm really asking you to stop what's now started. Don't test, not our patience, it's not a dispute, it's our willingness to go over too many obvious abuses of something that we even personally care about. Mr. Dacic, we're discussing the reconstruction of your government and let's keep it that way. We wanted to talk to candidates for ministers, not DS representatives. I think I explained the reasons. You didn't allow it, and we accepted it as a circumstance that we couldn't influence. Leave January 2001 and relations that were at that time completely different from those that exist today between the authorities and the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22956	Replica, Mr. Cvian, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22957	Honorable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was mentioned earlier by the head of the parliamentary group of an opposition party, and now he probably thinks I'm afraid to answer because I know that if I answer him tomorrow, I'll be on the cover of the tabloids owned by his party's boss. Well, I'm not afraid of the boss of his party, I'm not afraid of his media, I'm not afraid of the tabloids where he has his property and where he has a share in the ownership structure. I will no longer respond to such reports as are apparently made by reading Alan Ford, Mickey's entertainer, and the tabloids owned by the party's boss. That's what Mr. Vukic said, if you have anything to prove, let's go to court right now and that's my opinion. I thank Mr. Wolfich for having that attitude. What I have to say and take this opportunity to ask the chief of the parliamentary group who mentioned me - and what method of employment do you apply in Belgrade? Is that the method that's in the plumbing? The example of working in the water line means that you hire people through a brokerage firm, where then that brokerage firm takes a percentage of the salary. I'm sure you're wondering how I know this. From your party officials who will no longer suffer the injustice of your party president, so they inform people in whom they trust, for example, me. What about Apeks and BusPlus, is that the way you suggest it works? Of course, all of this was delivered to the authorities. I will not interfere with the investigation and the work of the prosecution, as you did at the time, Mr Stefanovic, we worked together, I remember what happened by 2010, until March when you did not leave the cabinet of the respected former President Boris Tadic. What about Apeks and BusPlus, it's a special story, let the citizens know that 8% of everything they pay goes into private pockets, there'll be opportunities to talk about it. What about the bridge? Is that how you run the Department of Traffic? We still have a lot of these examples. I didn't mean to answer, and feel free to tell your boss to put me on the front page, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22958	Replica, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22959	The DS guy who trusts you, doesn't help him, really. By the way, I have to tell you the truth, I'm a full-time employee of the Department of Foreign Affairs. A place in systemization is called a political director, it's not a set-up face. The minister can put me in any position at any moment, including the boiler room, I don't mind but you don't seem to have the strength to do that either. Unfortunately, I don't have eight times two minutes to answer but only two, so I have to say, Mr. Wolf, that you've answered some of the questions, but you're not fundamental. So you haven't answered any of the economics and social issues, agriculture and all the fiscal policy issues that I've asked you. Because it is that Mr. Djelitovic works in Telecom that's true, but I asked you nicely – why he doesn't work in some loser. Why don't you use that expert like that? We have seven currents in the DS. Don't deal with DS. If it's true that we have seven, and it's not, it's total nonsense, DS unique, you have 14 in each of your committees from New Belgrade to Voždovac, and so on. But what does that have to do with this subject? It's your nature, that instead of doing your job, you seem to be doing some plotting. You know if I were to survive from Heavenly Stefanovic if someone told me what you said to me, you and Mr. Dacic. Well, I'd have got eight warnings by now. So, please, Mr. President, conduct the session properly. There is no hatred for you, nor is there for your stranger. I don't know where you see hate when the truth hurts, Mr. Wolfie. But the fact is that you haven't missed the chance to threaten us again, and that's for Mr. Gilas and me, who haven't arrested Karic, I'm sorry Saric, and neither is Karic. We're gonna arrest them. Belgrade Mayor and head of the negotiating team with Pristina. Well, good for you. It's your philosophy. You think the prosecution is yours, the police are yours, so you say yours should be arrested. That's what you think. I was just hoping that you were the only thing that changed in Serbia -- I was wrong. You showed the real face right away. He disappeared and Webber and T-shirts, and Singapore, all through the window. (President: Time. I've got immediate threats. You didn't tell us who Luka Boyovic was meeting with. That's what I asked you. (President: Time, Mr. Stefanovic. I've allowed the 30 seconds you had at the beginning. How now, you 30 minutes, we keep our mouths shut, so yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22960	Mr. Wolfie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22961	Mr. Stefanovic, in order not to complain in front of Serbian citizens and not to play the callimeter, as Mr. Dacic said, this Rules of Procedure was brought by you from the DS and no one from the SNS voted. So, just enough for Serbian citizens to know what you're complaining about. You're not complaining about us, you're complaining about yourself. Since Serbian citizens could see in that eight times in two minutes an additional three minutes of hatred for the SNS, and myself personally, you haven't heard a single threat. You heard one thing I know she worried you about, but it wasn't a threat. I will repeat it, I have said very precisely – for everyone in this country, each move will be covered by Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic, but for the first time I have said that his Majesty will also be responsible for Dragan Gilas. I'm sorry, if that's a threat, then it's a new definition of a threat that I've never heard of as a threat when you put someone in the same position as you. In doing so, Mr. Stefanovic, I have never seen Mr. Boyovic mentioned, but I have not even received the prize of the most successful manager in Dublin for 11,000 euros, a pair of citizens of Belgrade, as your president has won. And I get rewards when I win, and I rarely get them, because I deserve them by my hardworking and dedicated work, not because I give money to the citizens of Serbia for those awards. As for Mr Stefanovic, economic and social policy, I have worked hard in the previous days to explain it to you in the most serious way possible, what our intentions are. Now I'm gonna try again. As far as taxes and contributions are concerned, so what we think in the tax policy to change, that's to free economic operators of over-indulgence, especially those who produce, and those who export, to introduce some kind of progressive taxation in which we would re-incentive those who keep people in the realm of the gray economy to hire people, and those who have too much income to pay a bigger tax. These over-incomes are over 100,000 and upwards. I think we're going to make a fundamental and serious reform, so first of all the fiscal system, we're going to take responsibility for it, and we don't have any problem with that. As far as the relationship between the SNS is concerned, our relationship will be such that we will keep you as a little bit of water on your palm. We'll take care of you all the time. You said here that I'm talking about relations in the DS. I answered that because you were talking about SNS relations. Now you're passing it on like me to me to talk about you. I'm not interested in you at all. I'm in Serbia. I deal with Serbia's problems, the future of Serbia, and there they see you, so I don't deal with DS at all. Serbia is my job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22962	The word is Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22963	Just to comment on what Mr. Stefanovic, the political director, said, is not set up, and what is then called political? How is a political director elected? By systematization, it is clear to me, but I cannot understand that the political director of the Serbian Foreign Ministry is in the new government of the Republic of Serbia, the head of the opposition political party. If you didn't agree with this government policy, you'd probably resign. Since you have not resigned, either you agree with our government, or with our policy, I do not understand your position. Are you person A or person B?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22964	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22965	You know very well what you're talking about, Mr. Dacic, it's below every level, what you're doing. I've told you nicely, it's a matter of systematicization and I can't resign to a solution handed to me by my employer, except to quit my job in a house where I'm employed in a competition. You know that very well, but you want to make this my job debate? Okay, we can talk about that too. It wasn't the threat you were talking about, Mr. Vukic, but you said a series of false things, that they were tycoons, the richest people with media in their possession, and that they organized a campaign against you. These are serious charges, and you need to give some evidence for that. As far as property is concerned, I'll always trade mine with you, you know that, even for 30%, I don't have a problem right now, my personal property with you, here's the deal. Then there's no problem. I'm telling you again, you're seeing hate, I'm telling you frankly a few times, you're in pain of the truth, Mr. Wolfie, there's no hate. You wear a very difficult function at a difficult time for this country. We ask questions you don't like and you think we hate you. If someone gets a prize in Dublin, it's not the same as when they get the title "Vojvod" of Chetnic, you understand? I understand what you're worried about, because neither Webber nor Singapore, nor the beginner readers, are hard to get caught in the roots of you, very quickly show your sparks? You understand, a man gets up here, your head of the parliamentary group, and the most monstrous things he says here and nothing to anyone. We know your boss loves you, Mr. Granny, you don't have to do that 100 times, and he knows you love him, so don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22966	Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22967	As far as I'm concerned, I have to inform you, Mr. Stefanovic, and I know you haven't even read Weber, it's hard to know who he is, and as far as the Chetnic and Partisan dukes are concerned, I'm neither, nor have I ever been. You've mixed some pots, I don't know what it is, and I've never mentioned to you the theme of Chetniks and Partisans, because I don't think anyone living in Serbia is interested, except you from the DS. You may seek salvation in some of them, since you do not see any other salvation for your policy, but it is difficult for you to find anything on the Serbian political scene that can help. So, as for the lies you've been making all along that I haven't answered anything, I've answered, I've written down every word you've said here and every answer, from first to last. Since you said, tycoons, media, and some criminals who threaten, you talked about Saric, and you messed up with Karic, and I don't know who else, and you didn't finish any of it, you didn't finish any of it, you didn't finish anything, you didn't finish anything, you didn't finish anything, you didn't finish anything, you didn't finish anything, you didn't do Saric, you didn't know Karic, you didn't know anyone else, even though I don't think they were for comparison. As for that, I would like to assure the citizens of Serbia that we will finish our work, especially on these most difficult, burning issues of organised crime that have not been completed for years. As for tycoon and wealth, I don't have any wealth. I've reported everything, and I think that according to what the media published, I can't conclude otherwise, at the bottom of that rich scale. I don't mind someone being rich, I don't have against rich people, but I have against those who lecture us about how we should treat the poor and how we should all be much more modest and less boastful and be the most convincingly wealthy in Serbia. I'm sorry, about social democracy today, our sermons are held today by the DS whose leaders, or leader, however you like, are certainly one of the richest people in this country. Whether they deserve it or not, that's fine. If they hadn't, they wouldn't be out there. They are something, whether they deserve their political power or their great senses, I don't doubt Mr. Gilas's mind, even though I know he's never read Weber, even though I know his foreign languages aren't going very well either, but that's not particularly important either. It's important that your prizes in Dublin go well, because when you get a prize in Dublin, I have nothing to do with it. That might be nice for Belgrade. But I'm terribly against it when you spend 11,000 euros on Belgrade's money, and for those 11,000 euros I know how many meals could have been distributed in the soup kitchen, I know how many meals could have been distributed in kindergartens, and you're also boasting that someone deserved that reward. That's what we're different about. As far as the political scene in Serbia is concerned, I know I'm for the Easter nightmare, and that's what I'm going to stay for. That is my intention, and that is my plan, although I have no desire to deal with you at all, I will always take care of you somewhere in the short term as a little bit of palm water, take care of you, and think about always thinking the same way about me, because the worse you think about me, Serbia will be better, and Serbia will always go forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22968	Replica Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22969	All these investigations were launched at the time of the previous government, of course not by the authorities, but by the people who deal with the business professionally, Mr. Vukic, but you stopped them all, that's a fact, because we still don't see the end for Darko Saric, we don't see the end of it, that's the fact. I listened very carefully to you, Mr. Wolfie. The fact is also that we don't think about you at all the way you think about us. Your supremacy based on a nod, giving compliments, excelling in the media, epithets in your mind, readings are the thing that speaks of your environment, but don't ask for the whole of Serbia to be fascinated. We see you as a normal man who is an intellectual who leads an important resort and private what we think of you is irrelevant. In a political sense, we are opponents, I repeat, there is no hatred. Hate is your political group's category. You made up a patent for it, you know very well what I'm talking about. By the way, you mentioned Mr. Knezevic. Yes, he's been in custody too long, in my personal opinion, went to the SNS before the trial was completed, became Minister of Maltene from custody and imagine when he became Minister of State his sentence was handed down. What do you think the verdict is? Liberation or conviction? That's very interesting. Otherwise, whether we're Social Democrats and you're uncentered or I don't know what you are anymore, because you have no program, no plan, leave it to the voters, and that's where I agree with you. I don't think it's good at all, Mr. Wolfie, to say in fifty-five minutes of your exposure - I don't care, we don't care, I do Serbia. Fifty-five minutes you're only dealing with us. Get above us, Mr. Wolfie, you're powerful. What are we going to do to you from the opposition? Look how you get this country out of crisis and feed the people and give them a job, I know we agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22970	Mr. Stefanovic, two minutes and 25 seconds. Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22971	I will rise up to Mr Stefanovic above you and I will no longer answer you, this is the last time I answer you today, and not because I can't say now that what you said is much scarier than anything in the previous period, although I'm sure it wasn't your intention. You were going to say that the judge, and I'm saying that because of the citizens of Serbia who know this woman, Maja Kovacevic Tomic, who you well know from what period, made the verdict under our pressure, by our order, liberating, did you want to tell Mr Stefanovic in such a way as to act this whole show? Were you going to say that Goran Knezevic was actually guilty and was supposed to get a conviction? These are terrible things, Mr. Stefanovic, that you interfere in the work of the judiciary in such a way, so say Maja Kovacevic Tomic, the persian of the Serbian judiciary is a criminal and under such pressure has reached such a verdict, and has made some of the most significant and difficult judgments in our society, but you did not seem to know who made the verdict. You said the investigation was stopped about Saric. What are you talking about, man? What are you talking about, man? We have meetings on a daily basis? We've got special teams working on it, what are you talking about, man, do you know what kind of danger you're putting this country in with such statements? Do you know who we're working with, with the world's most important services? What are you talking about, what kind of danger you're putting this country in, are you saying that this country is protected by the most serious form of crime? In four years, you have not come to Darko Saric, and I give recognition to those who participated in the fight against Darko Saric, and I promise you that he will be caught. You say "interrupted investigation," what are you talking about, man? Based on what, where did you get that? Who lied to you, who deceived you, or how can you deceive the public like that? If it wasn't evidence of hate, then I don't know what they are? As far as I'm concerned, you're right, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, I apologize to all of your sympathisers, especially DS supporters, who think differently from you, and I will no longer answer the word, as you said, I will deal with Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22972	The replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22973	Whoever loves me and does not love or loves Mr. Stefanovic or does not love, should not burden either this high house or the citizens of Serbia. However, I have one question for Mr. Stefanovic. When are you being honest, Mr. Stefanovic? When are you telling the truth? In the hallway, just a few hours ago when you apologized for exaggerating your claims that no indictment was filed, just a few hours ago, Mr. Stefanovic, look me in the eye, in front of your office in the hallway? Did you speak then, or now that you're saying that some of the procedures have been stopped, some of the investigations have been stopped? Just say, when are you, if you're ready? I'm ready to go to the lie detector for that claim, and once again, look into my eyes and tell me that something like that isn't true, and it only happened a few hours ago, Mr. Stefanovic. I don't have a problem when someone gets a reward in Serbia, I look forward to it. We need rewards, we need winners, I have a problem when that reward is bought, but when it's bought from the citizens of Belgrade money, because it can't be won. It's for work, not for crime. They were evil when a debt of 50m euros was inherited, which is something normal for the capital and for the city of Belgrade's size, and what is left behind? What is the level of debt now in Belgrade? Nine hundred million euros. Who's gonna pay for that? What are the new values, what are the infrastructure facilities done? When are you going to tell me once what the price of the bridge is, no interest, no interest, no interest, no access traffic, no access traffic? Let's talk about it a little bit. And just say, when you're honest, what happens in you when the cameras turn on?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22974	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22975	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, dear friends, I do have a duty and I must respond to the dangerous claims that have been made here and ask the question. If there are such serious doubts about the legality of the judicial verdicts made in Serbia, I ask the question who has reached those verdicts? Who made those judgments? Did the political party bring them, did the court council bring them? Did the court's special court department in Belgrade bring them in which no single judge has changed? How can someone here in front of the citizens of Serbia in this home muddle these people? Is it perhaps some echo from the past, when, for example, the president of the Judicial Council, who imposed 40 years of imprisonment on people who tried to assassinate Vuk Draskovic, people who killed Ivan Stambolic, thus telling the council and those judges that they were not worthy of judicial functions? Is that the echo of the past, when the best judge is being chased because he won't serve you? Mr. President of the National Assembly, I would indeed like to ask as Minister of Justice and the State Administration of the Republic of Serbia that in this way, without any evidence whatsoever, the highest legal office holders in the Republic of Serbia are not muddy. Those bearers, I didn't choose them, nor did you choose them. They were chosen by the congregation’s majority in this respected home. I'm not going into what the congregation majority was, but if someone claims to be such a notorious false truth, then let them prove it to the citizens here. What kind of way is such a person in such a responsible place to get muddy? These are the same judges that were elected in some previous time, which today determine someone else's detention. None of us do that here. Therefore, if you have objections to their work, and you turn to where the authorities are responsible for it and the competent authorities for it. You seem to think it's all the way you imagine it's supposed to be or what you've been doing, so you think if someone in the past called the judges and told them how to act and how to judge and determine the detentions, they're doing it today. Gentlemen, that's where you're wrong. It doesn't occur to anyone around here to work, and you can only remember that time with nostalgia and imagine how it was and how you would do it. I really felt it was an obligation to act on behalf of the holders of judicial functions who are muddy here, who are not in a position to respond and where their expertise, their ability, their professionalism, are in an extremely incorrect way being ridiculed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22976	Right on line, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22977	I don't know why this anxiety? I'll remind you of the citizens, not for you, because the truth is not dear to you, what I said. So, I expressed my surprise that the minister was elected until the criminal proceedings were completed. That's the first thing. Secondly, the same thing as the fact that hit Mr. Vukic, in that investigation about Darko Saric, i.e. His finalization, no results. What's the problem now? The problem is that you want 100 points in everything, whatever your leader touches, to turn into gold, and that's hard because you drag Serbia back and when someone tells you something like this, we listen to things like this totally amazing. Amazing things we've heard that I won't even answer to. There's no need. I think you've really shown the right face and I think that, as I said here and Mr. Vukic, and other representatives of the government, several times, in connection with nothing-provoked affairs as far as we have a criminal charge of organized crime, I'm going to repeat zero for the crimes of general crime. And that's what I said, and I'm sorry Mr. Wolfie and I don't understand each other, and we don't understand each other because it doesn't suit him. What's for sure is that it's scary that some people here have used it, so I want to finish it again, the name Zoran Djindjic, and they're not worthy of being in the same sentence with him. Please, if anything else, if you're insulting us, threaten us, tell us we're tycoons, criminals, come on, finish it already. Arrest all DS members and rule without opposition in this country. Do what you know best, threaten, arrest, but, gentlemen, we don't ask you for mercy, and we wouldn't give it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22978	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22979	It's just that there's still a court order missing. Mr. Stefanovic, I did not insult Zoran Djindjic. Also, you have no right to insult me that I cannot be in the same sentence with him. Learn to respect others, because I chose very many words when I spoke about Zoran Djindjic. I would like his political heirs to him in various political parties. Of that list of people who were in the government of Zoran Djindjic, many are no longer on the same side. I don't want to talk about Zoran Djindjic right now, because it's not a topic, so I'm also asking you not to insult others because everyone has their dignity, everyone has their own opinions about events and people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22980	National MP Sasa Milenic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22981	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I appeal to the 107th and dignity of the home for disproportionate wavering stories of arrest among the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister speak of it, they speak from the point of view of political identification with resolute functions, which, if we are to the end, are more forms of the presence of free citizenship and elected representatives of citizens over this component of force in the government's portfolio, but that political parties are competing, and are still insulting whether they arrest enough or not. In the Republic of Serbia, political parties have no authority over this issue and I don't know how the political parties feel about being invited to record political points based on a process that excludes the authority of the state authorities that we oversee and which we do not manage in any way? So, to me, slowly, listening to that, my hair turns, even though I cut it, into Mr. Tasovac's hair. How can the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discuss whether parties are intensively arrested? The constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits political parties from direct exercise of power, especially in such sensitive prerogatives of government, such as the application of force. I think it must be reacted to on behalf of the constitutional order and the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22982	I didn't experience it the same way you did, but if you insist, we can make that clear in the voting day. (Saša Milenić, from the place: No. ) The word is Mr. Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22983	As I did before, I have to react for both justice and for citizens who have been able to listen here for some time. I don't know if anyone can in just a few minutes by denying themselves. I believe that we are all in clear consciousness, common sense and good hearing, and that here it is said that investigations have been terminated, not as was said a few minutes after the investigation has had no results in trying to deny its own words. It's been said that the investigations have been terminated. Probably like the other day, and yet again, it's said that the number of charges filed for organized crime is zero. I don't know what anyone needs, what's stronger evidence to report to the D.A.'s office that he file and says to the point of every number of investigations. It's possible that someone forgot that 13 months ago, everything was found, undermining, all three investigations. All three unfinished investigations. It's so inherited. Citizens have had opportunities these days to hear how many charges have been filed. What's more to happen for someone to really stand up to the facts and see that, there's been so many and so many charges of organized crime crimes. What is organized crime, and what is not, is defined by law. The other night we talked about it. But the truth has just been told again, first said – the investigations have been terminated, and then when it was replicated it was said – so I didn't say it, I said the investigations have no results. Mr. Chairman, I ask you, indeed, that more of such notorious untruths that have a negative impact on the work of the judicial authorities do not repeat or tolerate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22984	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22985	Mr. Minister, thank you for the clarification and precision, we understand now, so no investigation has been terminated, thank you for being precise, you are only inefficient. So they're not terminated investigations, but you don't know how to finish it. I think it's clear to everyone now. What I wanted to end for sure and I really won't answer anymore, I'm very sorry that the government didn't answer any of the essential, economic, fiscal and other questions, except the story of how to cut costs, increase revenues, is not responsible for the Kopalnik, nor for the hotel, nor for the contracts that no one has seen alive, you haven't answered much, gentlemen, but you said that we are doing this under someone's instruction. I have to say the next thing - I've never worked under anyone's instructions in my life, not even now, especially when we're in the political arena. For me, the instruction of Serbian citizens, who are increasingly opening their eyes and seeing that there is no more arrest than happiness in Serbia, and see that there is no future in Serbia where political opponents are threatened and imprisoned. It's nice to have one man with all the power coming out of him, but it's nice to have gentlemen that fire lasts for a while, and it burns a lot, and our people are used to how to deal with each other this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22986	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22987	Whether it's effective or not, as efficiency is understood by you, it seems we've had a chance to look into the past and I don't want to talk about it. We also had opportunities to see from the report that the late Verica Barac filed, and how the previous government reacted to these criminal data that were reported in 24 cases. Now we have a chance to see that in less than 20 months, an investigation will be closed for all 24 cases and charges will be filed. If that's ineffective, let's honor whoever's so able to say it. But that someone said a few minutes ago that all investigations were terminated, and after that he said they didn't just give the results. That someone said a few days ago that there were zero charges of organized crime crimes and today they say that, so the citizens are aware enough to judge themselves by the data they've filed here. Someone gets up and says something like that at the end of the day, and someone comes in and brings a documented report from the Special Prosecutor's Office on the fight against organised crime. Citizens know best and see how the fight against corruption and organised crime is being conducted, and they mean it adequately, as they will know in the elections, as well as the one who said zero charges, and the charges have been brought against 117 people, if that's a zero, then he has to deal with himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22988	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22989	Article 27, Mr. Vice President. You have to act, the opposition has its rights. She is responsible for this in front of the citizens, but representatives of the government must commit something that Mr. Selakovic is not ready to enter...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22990	Please don't go in replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22991	I'm not going into replica, I just want to draw your attention that you don't expect our MP group to be silent about the statements of the Justice Minister who knows that investigations will be completed by some people being charged. Were they led to be accused or cleared? Take care of that, Mr. Vice President, because the lists are...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22992	Mr Jovanovic, today's practice and otherwise practice is that if the Rules of Procedure is advertised, then only the Rules of Procedure is advertised, not that you abuse the Rules of Procedure. Many MPs are not allowed today, so I cannot allow you to do so either. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22993	Dear Mr. Chairman, it's a little difficult for me to point out to you the violation of the Rules of Procedure done by the President of the National Assembly, because he's not chairing right now, you've switched. However, because of the dignity of this house, I must point out that this is not how a session of the National Assembly is conducted. This isn't where the ministers chose us to yell at us. We are not afraid when someone yells at us or plays at us, because it is a feature of people who do not have the power of arguments to convince the citizens of Serbia and the opposition that they are right, then they start to yell at us and threaten us with their fingers. We weren't afraid of that finger when he was holding a sniper or a pen, so we're not afraid now. So, please, at least make a point of this debate, to be in line with this high house. We are MPs who choose ministers, we are not elected by ministers, nor are we elected by the Prime Minister, nor are we elected by the Deputy Prime Minister. They came here to be chosen by us. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the post: You will not vote for him. I thank the Lord God for them, I will not vote because I love this country, and I ask you not to throw it to me. So, Mr. Vice President, I'm embarrassed to point to you for a violation of the chairmanship of the National Assembly, but I am obliged to defend the dignity of this high house and of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22994	I was mostly here today. I didn't realize there were any threats here. It's every single person's thing about the height of the tone and the way he speaks. I think it's even more pleasant when you hear someone say what they're saying than when you don't even hear what they're saying. In that sense, I believe he was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22995	Articles 106 and 108. The fact is, I abstained in any way to engage in a discussion that went absolutely off topic. Secondly, we have a situation here with us as one of the candidates for Minister and Mr. Sasa Radulovic, who is the bankruptcy manager in "Modi" in Debelača, and the fact is that some things are initiated by him precisely by SNS officials... )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22996	Mr. Mikovic, please don't. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22997	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 107(1). I don't know on what basis Minister Selakovic is speaking, let alone sharing the moral lessons of the DS. I just wanted to add that, always, Minister Selakovic, you will be remembered for saying during your term, the court said that Bajrakli mosque burned itself. (President: No, don't, sir. )......................................................................................................... that Bris Taton himself killed himself and that no one burned the embassies in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22998	Mr. Balsha, I won't allow you a replica, either. You pointed to an injury, and I'll answer you on what basis I won't let you. The minister spoke on the basis of article 96 and has the right as minister to answer certain questions raised by MPs. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u22999	Thank you. I urge you to consider and explain to me how you conduct article 27 that I consider insulting, because you don't take care of the order at the session. Namely, the word is given to Minister Nikola Selakovic. I asked during the debate in the previous days if he was the minister who resigned. It has been explained to me, irrefutable, that only the ministry is being changed and that it continues to work as minister under the Ministry Law. If that's the case, then today can't get a word of it, because today we're not talking about ministers who are in the election proposal. If not, then Minister Selakovic will be elected. If he's going to be chosen, then we miss his resignation. The member you are referring to shall be valid for the sessions at which the laws are passed. A special session is under way whose agenda is the choice of members of the government. The mandated promoter, the only possible author, is the Prime Minister, when less than half of the ministers or mandaters are asked or amended by the assembly majority, when a decision on a new mandate is taken by the president of the Republic of Serbia because he can raise the majority. None of these cases are in place during this session. It is your duty to find a way based on article 27 to take care of the order of the session and to take care of the proper application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As I had a proposal when it came to the Ministry Act, so I have yesterday and today and now I have a proposal. Inform the National Assembly that the first Deputy Prime Minister is someone to replace the Prime Minister at this session, that is allowed and inform which of the ministers replaces the Prime Minister at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23000	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Babic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23001	I'm advertising the breach of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. In the spirit that this debate is going into a more normal course, unfortunately, I have not often been the one who introduced us into a normal and democratic course, and therefore I want to take advantage of this advertising of the Rules of Procedure which I do not want to vote on and to apologize to this high home and to the citizens who are looking at us for a part of the private conversation that I have interpreted here, which is basically not in the spirit of democratic rules and rules of conduct in this high house. You know that almost all parliamentary groups are working on the code of conduct of MPs. I'm part of that team, and there's another reason, even if my personal example, that code of conduct should be adopted, even if I'm the first of those to be sanctioned under that code of conduct. In any case, I call on all colleagues, with one more apology, to proceed with further debate and talks on the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23002	I support your proposal, but you know very well that this does not depend much on the chairman, especially when it comes to advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23003	Mr. Vice President, of course it depends a lot on the person who takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure during this debate. I'm advertising Article 27. You are obliged to warn both ministers and vice-presidents and Prime Ministers if, during their speech, they come out of the frameworks that are acceptable to us as representatives of the opposition. How can the minister of justice say in parliament, after a multi-minute appearance criticising the opposition for discussing a court solution, say investigations will be completed and indictments filed? What do you think of that, Mr. Dacic, as Prime Minister? Is that the country we want to live in? Yesterday, we were in a debate, Mr. Vice President, saying we don't need on-callers for every era, people we're gonna put on a pillar of shame, lynch and so lie to ourselves. Serbia is not like this because of individuals. If these investigations are being conducted, I guess they're being led to establish order in the country. Let those who have broken the laws answer, but we do not need a new Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23004	Mr. Jovanovic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23005	Yes, it is. Take care of that Rules of Procedure. Warn the ministers to be bound by order as we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23006	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23007	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really demand of you that when someone tends to deliberately misread the words spoken here also be the subject of your warning. Did I say the investigation would be over? I told you the investigation would be over, I did. Here, ask. I know what I said very well. Something has changed in Serbia. You were able to arrest 12,500 people in six months and not have 100 indictments, but something has changed in Serbia. Today, when someone is held in custody, I think there is a significantly higher level of responsibility because the holders of judicial functions independently or independently, depending on what judicial authority they work in, decide what they will do and how they will work. So I'm really asking you that when someone here is trying to incorrectly interpret the words spoken, to be for that and to be warned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23008	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23009	Article 27. Can we once agree that no member of the Government, a minister, anyone who is not a member of the Parliament, can demand anything from the chairmanship of the Assembly to ask him to do anything? You're looking after the Rules of Procedure. If the MPs feel that you are not doing this in a good way, they have the right to do so. We're not in the union, concentrate. Only the MPs have to ask. Second, the provision of Article 116 on the session of the National Assembly. It's not the first time Mr. Selakovic has done this. He directly addresses MPs who do not even participate in the debate, threatens them. Do you now, Mr Dacic, understand why you should not call and mention Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Djindjic's politics? Because you have a minister of justice who, 15 minutes later, challenges the "Sabbe" action. That's why it's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23010	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, just a little bit. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. You may be satisfied or dissatisfied with holding a session. You're right to do that, but you have no right to react so badly. Let the MPs tell you what they have and I estimate whether someone has broken the Rules of Procedure or not. Please just write down who has the right to contact the Rules of Procedure - Srdjan Mikovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Cedomir Jovanovic. The word has Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: Ms Ljiljana Lučić is before me. I've got order. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23011	Article 116 and Article 103 together with Article 27 There is no possibility, if the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are respected from word to word, that anyone should give a lecture to the MPs, especially the President or the chairman of the National Assembly, what should they do? There is a business opportunity for a member of the 103rd National MP to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president and to point out such a thing. But in any case, there is no possibility that anyone, and especially one who, if strictly respected the Rules of Procedure, would not have the right here to speak at this special session of the National Assembly. There is no problem when a certain bill is passed and some bill is being considered, that all members of the government who are authorized as such by the government to speak, but in this situation it is not right. We've come into a situation to discuss many issues that are out of the agenda. I retired when you pointed me out that I went off topic. I retired, but I didn't notice that other participants were in the debate, especially those who didn't have the right to discuss at today's session, withdrew the discussion. I am aware because in the discussion I mentioned a certain application to the special court against SNS officials, and I am aware that this moment will be taken from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23012	Time, Mr. Mikovic. I didn't realize the minister's intention to ask the chairman to act beyond the Rules of Procedure. I therefore believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. The word is a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23013	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 27. Mr. Chairman, I see you have difficulty applying article 27. A Rules of Procedure in which it is clearly defined that, at a session like this and with such a agenda, Minister Selakovic cannot get a word, and you continue to give him your word. For that I understand, you are part of the ruling coalition. Honestly, as opposition MP, whenever Minister Selakovic answers, I am pleased to see the government's view of the government, what the ministers of this government say about themselves, especially the Deputy Prime Minister of the government, look like, to lead Serbia towards modernisation and Europeanisation. We have a minister here who several times proves it, who does not know the basic rules of conduct in parliamentary rules of conduct in parliamentary democracy, does not know the relationship of the government and parliament. That's the minister who sought criminal responsibility for the MPs here the other day in parliament. (President: Time.) Please, let me finish. Why is he acting like this in parliament today? Because the Deputy Prime Minister said he was wrong. Look, we have a minister of justice who doesn't know that in Article 103. The constitution no one can... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23014	He can't. It just can't, because what does the Minister's speech have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? The breach of the Rules of Procedure applies exclusively to the President of the Assembly. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23015	Mr. Vice President, Article 27. If you are unable to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then say so, although you know very well who can talk to us during this session. I don't mind all government representatives participating, I'd also like candidates for ministers to be able to talk. But you're referring to that Rules of Procedure when you turn off our colleague's microphone in 60 seconds, even though I think this is the first time you've reported to the Rules of Procedure. Please apply this Rules of Procedure. Apply Article 98. Rules of Procedure. Interrupt this debate and determine whether the head of a parliamentary group, in this case it is about me, whether I made the lie when I reminded you of the Rules of Procedure which obliges you to bring order even to the minister of justice, who has here told you that investigations are being conducted and that indictments will be brought, not how investigations are being conducted, and how the public will know the truth. At this point, you are the man leading the parliament. You owe it to the citizens of Serbia. We don't need the Princesses. We don't need a bug who's in custody because he didn't do something and he had to know something. We don't need that fear that comes to us on weekends when police raids of working groups start that after a year you're criminalizing yourself. Order here, or don't do the job. I respect your age. We've never had any personal political conflict. Please apply the Rules of Procedure. Declare a break in work and then determine whether the minister of justice here said that we don't actually live in the rule of law, which is the feeling of almost every representative of the opposition, or I abuse my commercial right and then punish me. But don't let everything be said, because if you can tell everything, you can do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23016	Time, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23017	Mr. Chairman, me and the SPS parliamentary group are no longer clear as to why MP Bojan Djuric has today been knocked down? He is appalled not to apply the sanctions provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Or this is for who knows which time, and since I've been listening for the second time, to react in such a way as to first call for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that, allegedly, by calling for the presentation of Minister Selakovic, and then using the opportunity to address the prime minister again. I understand the opposition MP's wish to address the prime minister today, and I am very clear. I'm even more sure that the prime minister can't wait to answer their questions, and I'm certainly not going to do it for him. But we can't be discriminated against by any chance against those you've privileged. In a specific case in fellow Đurić and other opposition colleagues, who are using the Rules of Procedure in an eclectic way today and yesterday. They're calling on the Rules of Procedure to lead the controversy. I don't think there's any room for that anymore and that finally you chairman should react to all those who will do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23018	Thank you, too. I think I have the same arches for everyone. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. After him is Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23019	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to take advantage of the business law of Article 112 and take a break in your work until order is established in the O.R. and until we return to the agenda, take care of article 108. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the session of the National Assembly is an old president or chairman. I especially ask everyone in the O.R., especially the Minister of Justice to respect Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry my humble legal knowledge isn't like that, but I have to remind you that Article 4. The constitution says that the government's arrangement rests on the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters. I would ask those of us who are the legislators and who we choose ministers, to warn the president and the chairman of what he needs to do in the Rules of Procedure. Guests in parliament ask for patience until we choose them as ministers of the best government since the arrival of southern Slovenians in the Balkans, because if you are not the worst, then you are probably the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23020	Mr. Milivoevich, be assured I have arguments to bring this session to an end. So I'm not here to interrupt. I'm just trying to understand you and let you express your opinion. However, instruments exist to bring this session to an end, and I do not want to apply them. I don't think there were any injuries. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23021	I have a general objection to article 27. You know very well that we have not reported to the Rules of Procedure in these two, three days, nor have we used the right to replication. There was one announcement yesterday about the technical matter and that's all. It has a direct connection to my remark that I now have to make. This behavior of ours has been extremely restrained so far. I'll try to explain it in five seconds and explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I point to. Namely, the way you conduct the session does not refer personally to you, Mr. Vice President, you simply replace the president in this situation, and that kind of injury is still going on, because something that causes continuous replication and continuous lifting of the Rules of Procedure and drags the Assembly away from the essence and debate of the essence. That's what everybody contributes to. The chairman has an obligation to take care of the way we discuss it, the pace and must discuss it with the present ministers. She is right, Mrs. Comic, when she claims there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the way the ministers are reported, but we at the DSS did not insist on it, because we believe that it is a formalism that is not the key thing here in the debate. It can be overcome by Dacic constantly looking for a word, then asking for the word to be taken away by some of the ministers present. It can simply be overcome. Yes, it's a formal obstacle, but it's not essential. The bottom line is that the chairman should have an obligation to communicate, not only in the O.R., but also outside the O.R., which, if not, is simply normal in political life, influences the way communication would be done in order to cause less of these situations. We wait two days for the opportunity for our people to come and talk about the fundamental difference that exists between us and the government, because the government is going in the wrong direction, not in the right direction, as they say. We can't open that story...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23022	Time. On what basis are you answering Mr. Guric? (Bojan Đurić, from the post: By Business or by Replica. You can, but I don't see what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23023	Article 27. You said it was better to speak louder – Article 27 and Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23024	Please, this is the third time he's a member of the 27th, and I won't let you. You have no right. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23025	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the past and these two days that are related to the reconstruction, I have listened to everything and everything. I can't say that some of the remarks, which were made here, were unfounded, but I have to notice that a lot of things were unfounded, unfounded, although some want to imagine the best of Serbia. In their statements, they often caused panic and unrest among the citizens. So that we can measure the results of this government at all, so that we can determine the direction in which it will turn and in which the newly reconstructed government will move, let's first look at what kind of Serbia is found by the SNS and then the prime minister for the composition of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Let's see what kind of country we inherited, what's been done for these years, is that a lot, is that a little, is that enough. The situation in Serbia was next. In the judiciary, we had one failed reform, and another failed reform of the failed reform. That area wasn't even arranged. We have also had terrible pressure from international organisations dealing with this issue, and from the EU, that the area of justice is finally being regulated. Reforms, one and the other, were also exposed to the prosecution. It's about one branch of government and one of the holders of judicial functions. I guess because of the extremely good and successful reform of corruption was everywhere present. To make things worse, there was a law on public procurement that was filled with holes that allowed corrupt elements. We had a case that 60% of public procurement was conducted in a shortened procedure and in a negotiating process. Those who defend this law today should be ashamed of them. The tax system was completely collapsed. The grey economy has taken over 30% of the market, and what has worked in the tax system has not fulfilled its tax obligations. A complete end to any co-operation with international financial organisations for the sake of daily policy, failed budget projections and the inability to find solutions to the problems that then plagued Serbia. In the banking sector, the absence of bank and financial market control. I would just like to remind you of the famous affairs that are related to Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank, where the Central Bank, the National Bank of Serbia, has completely failed, and that the vice governor has been rewarded, who was in charge of controlling business banks, by not missing hair from his head. To make things worse, the only business of the Central Bank at the time was to try to stop the dinar from falling towards the euro, and the only way it did that was to sell foreign reserves worth a billion and 350m euros. Besides, the course continued to wild. We can certainly thank one such situation for the extra good law that the previous Government passed, which is the Foreign Exchange Act which essentially allowed an uncontrollable outflow of foreign exchanges, euros and any other currency outside the payment system of the Republic of Serbia and that money ends in tax havens. Of course, the biggest problem the Republic of Serbia had at the time was the political situation related to problems with Kosovo and Metohija, which also blocked Serbia's EU accession. Of course, a total loss of confidence from non-Albanian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, who have lost full confidence in institutions located in the Republic of Serbia, through the various promises and barricades forced by the executive government in Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, we found that kind of Serbia 13 months ago. Now a normal question is raised - if the NBS Act is wrong, if the Law on Public Procurement is wrong, if the Foreign Affairs Act is not good, if we have failed judicial reform, what was the aim of making Serbia? The laws are adopted to regulate certain areas, and the aim of regulating these areas is to provide legal certainty to all citizens before the state authorities. Because we have these bad laws, such as the old Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Foreign Affairs that has changed and which still needs to be changed, give the right to have this high house often passed laws that seem to have been in the interest of the financial lobby and the frequently mentioned tycoons. It is the absence of any responsibility to the citizens, if we are the ones elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in one such state. Now I ask all fellow Members - do they want to live in such a state as we inherited in 2012, but not from the position of the MP, from the position of politicians, but from the position of ordinary citizens, who is the only time he has the chance to lead politics when he comes to the vote? If we could put ourselves in that position in our heads, I'm absolutely sure we wouldn't want us to live in such a country. As a result of such a single policy, we have a terrible outflow of Serbian citizens fleeing Serbia abroad. I don't mean the ones who finished prestigious colleges, there are them, I mean the regular ones. Only from Braničevski County, which has 200,000 inhabitants, is 60,000 people in the diaspora, and in the last few years that number has increased dramatically and how many valley tears here in Serbia have been made, not only to go there for temporary work, but to give up their countries and take the citizenship of those countries they have gone to. That's where we've brought Serbia in the last 12 or 13 years. I'm listening to tirads here about how Serbian citizens lose their jobs, and no one wants to accept the responsibility that in 2008, 1,999,476 people were in employment, that the loss of jobs in 2009 was 110, and that the number was reduced to 1,889,085 employees. In 2010, the number of employees decreased to 1,795,775, i.e. 96,000, in 2011 the number of employees decreased to 1,746,138 employees, less by another 50,000. In 2012, at 1,727,000, for 19 grand. During the previous government, 295,000 Serbian citizens lost their jobs, unemployment was 25.9%. That was the situation. A lot has changed since then. The Law on Public Procurement has changed which all serious international institutions have said is good. Since I see that my colleague from the DS, the head of the parliamentary group, is not here, obviously, about one thing, when it comes to public procurement, we're talking, and we don't understand each other. The purpose of one Public Procurement Act is savings, but in such a way that what is paid out of the budget is really costing, not to build through various contracts and contract annexes, or even not to implement the Public Procurement Act. Is it a problem that this has become a crime – abuse of public procurement? I don't. Looks like some of them are. When it comes to the banking sector, the National Bank is now in control of business and banks, I hope that the Ministry of Finance now with the new minister will be far more serious to control the foreign exchange business of all businesses, but I can tell you that today is the 114.34 course, and that, when the current governor took office, it was 119.06, that now the difference, day by day, year by day, about four dinars and that it has not happened in Serbia so far. Let me remind you, in 2001, one mark cost 30 dinars, 60 was the euro. Now think about how far we've come in a year. When it comes to employment, smaller shifts have begun, so unemployment has been reduced to 24.3% today. The reform of the judiciary was implemented as could only be implemented, which is by implementing the Constitutional Court's decisions. Political problems related to KIM are being resolved and Serbia has finally continued the EU accession process. The greatest evil that we often attack for, it is the fight against organised crime and corruption, I can inform you, gentlemen MPs, you and all the citizens of Serbia, that it has just begun. As we advocate that the laws we make are respected, I think it is time for the state authorities to accept it, and I know that many already have and that they work hard and that the laws, not only respect it, but also implement it. Why, then, when everything is like this and there has been progress in almost every area, is one of these reconstructions? Serbia was going at one pace, which was not to praise, in a decline at high speed. I read you on purpose some information to understand the situation. The average loss of work in the last four years of the previous government was – 74 thousand people were losing their jobs annually, while the state was constantly in debt, constantly raising loans, so as to provide any prospect of economic security, due to political petty points. We've got a privatisation that didn't work out for me, we've had a farm that was in chaos, with unpaid subsidies, with no processing industry, and with unfair competition that imported junk that wasn't for human consumption. All of this has been in order for as long as it is today. The dinar is stable, the external trade deficit is shrinking, the tax system is functioning as possible, with those problems he's had so far, and the economy is in a gradual swing to some recovery. Is that enough? We at SNS think that's not enough. It's not enough and that's why this government was reconstructed. It seems to me that all these years in Serbia there was a cult of nerado, a cult of being better off working in the state administration, not in the factory, and thus achieving its desires and ambitions. It's forgotten that in a state where father and mother don't get up at seven o'clock in the morning, don't wake them up for hours to go to work, they can't survive. He can't go to a country where children don't go to school because they think that even if they finish school, he won't find a job adequate for his own professional preparation. These are all the problems that have been inherited and we believe that these very new ministers, which are now proposed by the Prime Minister, should work on it most. Of course the maximum pressure will be on Mr Krstic, much is expected from the finance ministry. We know that there are a lot of problems, not only in the tax sector and in tax control, but also in foreign exchange. I'd like to draw your attention to this in particular, because somehow that part of the function has slipped out of the hands of the Central Bank and has been transferred to the Ministry of Finance under the Ministry and Government Act. I think you'll find a lot of things when you shut up. When it comes to Mr. Radulovic, business recovery is also expected. However, the third minister most expected is Mr Dragan Glamocic, the agriculture minister, because the three of you should bear the future development of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is nothing but a agricultural-agrarian country. Those who admire that problems in Serbia will solve a difficult industry are seriously wrong. That very part of the Serbian economy is the most ruined. When we look at the structure of our export goods, we will notice that Serbia is very little exporting agricultural products, mostly agricultural raw materials. That's what needs to be stopped, and we need to turn to the processing industry. It is, of course, the business of the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Finance to tax laws, subsidies, and I wish that we do not only have subsidies on the surface of the country, but also subsidies for what is finished agricultural product and exports out of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to help in a certain way from the budget development of the economy, the development of agriculture, industry in every way, and not to raise loans to buy ourselves a political future or possibly provide another day of survival in power, precisely because the SNS does not want Serbia's citizens living in tears, but we want them to be satisfied and happy. We believe that these results from previous ministers give hope that these new ministers will be even better, and that is why we will support the proposal to elect new members of the government in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-31-0.u23026	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedures by Dr Janko Veselinović and Cedomir Jovanovic. I can't give both of them a word, because I can't finish until 6:00, because it's only a minute. So we finish work today and continue Monday at 11.00 p.m. Thank you.
