ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28534	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the eighth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. This special session, in accordance with Article 119(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have called for the oath of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges, takes the oath before the National Assembly. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, Mr Dragomir Milojevic, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, and, besides him, I welcome all the guests present at this session, including representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Nikola Selakovic, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Presidents of the Republic rank courts, the Presidents of the Court of Appeals and other guests. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the first session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 31 October 2013, elected Mr Dragomir Milojevic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I also remind you that Article 53 is Section 2. The Law on Judges provides for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to take an oath before the National Assembly. Accordingly, I call on Mr Dragomir Milojevic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court, to approach to take the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath and the President of the Supreme Cassation Court repeats it. ) “I swear to my glass that I will do my function faithfully to the Constitution and to the law, according to my best knowledge and skill and serve only truth and justice.” Congratulations, and I wish you a lot of success in your work. Please sign the text of the oath, and then you can address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28535	Dear People's MPs, National Assembly President, Honorable Ministers of Justice, President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, indeed at this moment which may be one of the most important moments in my personal and professional life is difficult to find words without falling into the trap of repetitive stereotypes. I remind you that it is my duty and my obligation to thank you, the People's MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for showing me your trust and my honor, by choosing me as President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the most judicial institution in the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, I'm taking this opportunity, and maybe someone will say that I'm using it, by thanking all the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court who gave me support because without their support, I certainly wouldn't be standing here in front of you. As I said, I am standing before you now aware of the challenges facing me, above all in implementing further judicial reforms. I am aware of my obligations and duties in further directing the most complex and significant reforms that are under way in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I am ready to create an organized, stable and powerful judiciary together with my fellow judges across Serbia, my work and their co-operation. A powerful judiciary that will characterize independence, impartiality, efficiency, accountability and transparency. I'm really a little excited, so it's hard to say what I'm about to tell you, but it's certain that the judiciary just won't be able to carry that burden out and reach the goal in that sense. It therefore requires the assistance of all relevant institutions and entities, in particular the National Assembly, which, to that end, takes the most important place, particularly in the area of law-making, quality laws that are in line with European laws, European standards and now European law, etc. ‘ekim’. It's the only way we'll achieve the goals I've mentioned in advance, related to the characteristics of our judiciary. In the end, I thank you once again for your expressed confidence, and I hope, by my work, I will show that trust and justify it. Thank you for your attention and cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28536	I thank Mr Dragomir Milojevic. I conclude the eighth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. (The session ends at 14.10 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28537	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE COURT OF STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The sixth session of the Second Regular Session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 3 December 2013 (The session began at 10.40 hours. The session is chaired by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since today is Tuesday, we move on to request information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28539	I ask the Commissioner for the Refugees of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to provide me with information and answers to the following questions concerning the Asylum Law and the accompanying regulations, which oblige the state authorities to act in cases of asylum seekers' presence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the number of asylum seekers who, for any reason, have either spent the night in the open or have been treated beyond or have not been the subject of competent authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Interior and the Commissioner for Refugees. Currently information on how the law is applied, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we all have media only. The information we have is conflicting and scary, terrible in those parts of the report that talk about impatience, the level of hate, it could be said, which exposes asylum seekers to obvious crimes and crimes committed by NN persons for whom we also have no information about what happens next to them. The problem of asylum is only initially in the Republic of Serbia. We'll be a transit country for asylum seekers in the future. I believe that we must be prepared to act according to the law, to apply the law and our regulations and above all, to bear in mind that the problem of asylum seekers is more than anything else that our relationship with human rights and civil freedoms sees. The position of the Commissioner for Refugees is well known. They've informed the public that they've done everything, but we in the National Assembly, I don't know if what's done has been done enough. I also don't know whether the Commissioner is properly, financially and logically supported by both the Ministry and other parts of the government as it should or should be based on the rules governing the asylum issue. The procedures of the MIP members on providing data and on ensuring public order and peace are also the subject of my question, because I want to know if it has been handled in accordance with the protocol to which the members of the MUP are required. It is not necessary to emphasize what kind of vulnerable group it is. It is not necessary to stress the need to work very carefully to protect their human rights. The data I hope to receive from the Commissioner and from the MUP should help all of us to open the topic of asylum in the National Assembly with one debate, dialogue and debate, competent on committees, that is my proposal and my recommendation, or by public listening, so that we do not repeat the unpleasant events of the previous days, when we are unable to witness the direct suffering of people who have arrived in Serbia to seek their happiness elsewhere. Most of them are transitory in Serbia, i.e. on their way to the EU or beyond. It is my desire here in the National Assembly that we show solidarity with these people and that we uniquely condemn every case of impatience, showing hate and showing unwanted behavior when asylum seekers are asked, not because none of us know when or when they might be in such a situation, but because it represents a legal state for which we are to protect, protect and promote everything that the rule of law does. Human rights of asylum seekers are fundamental human rights and our silence is not a silence for their human rights violations, our silence is silence for the violation of any human rights anywhere in Serbia, including all of us who live in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28540	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf representatives and members of the National Disabilities Organization, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery, given that today is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28541	Mr. Chairman, National Assembly President Nebojsa Stefanovic, for the fourth time in 2013, seriously violated the rights of Members of Parliament 205. The rules of procedure, which stipulates that every last Thursday of the month, MPs are given an opportunity to ask the prime minister and ministers unpleasant questions. I sent him a telegram, and before that, I emailed him not to do so and to find a way to make up for it, because I'm not asking questions because of my own curiosity, but I'm asking questions on behalf of citizens who want answers and better solutions than we have today in practice. I ask that the National Assembly's presidency find an appointment for these missed terms of compensation. Interpletion, the right of MPs, to ask questions to the prime minister and ministers, one of the oldest, most important institutions of parliamentary life, which expresses the superiority of this legislative body over the executive body, i.e. The government, which must account for this home, to the MPs representing the people. I would also like to announce that I will submit a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in Article 205 and delete the following: "if there is a session in progress" and in such a way that both the current president and future presidents prevent them from playing with our right, to abolish it and enable us to work normally, as in parliaments of all countries. The session could be scheduled as it is today, on Tuesday, to be on Wednesday and Thursday, and then to meet the requirement to be in progress. It's deliberately missed. I don't know if Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly wants to keep the prime minister and ministers from under quotes, unpleasant questions you would hear here. It's his business, if he's doing it in writing with them, but it's our right to ask a question, whether they're perceived as pleasant or unpleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28542	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28543	Thank you, Vice President. Once again, I protest why Vela Ilic does not answer the questions that MPs ask. It's a very serious matter. It is a matter of several million euros in investment and its ministry is not giving an answer. So last time I asked and asked Neboja Stefanovic to urinate. Obviously, Mr. President is more on the side of the government than I am, and I am simply taking this opportunity to say, "Minister Ilic, answer the questions of the MPs, and today I have a dozen questions for Prime Minister Dacic." For more than a week now, this shammon has been going on around a mysterious minister who is working against the government's interest abroad and is pushing his friends or his foreign trade friend. Everyone's acting crazy, people are going crazy, and there's no answer to one very serious question. Who's doing this against the state's interests? Who doesn't follow the official state policy? It's a shocking response from Prime Minister Dacic, and I have a lot of questions for him. He said the other day -- Minister Zorana Mihajlovic did not send me a memo that was the minister. Since Mrs. Mihajlovic said she had read this activity in the diplomatic past, my first question for the prime minister is whether the prime minister is reading diplomatic mail? If the answer is no, then I have another question. Then who reads the prime minister's diplomatic mail? If the answer is yes, then I have the next question – did the prime minister read that dispatch that Mrs. Mihajlovic thinks of by reading diplomatic mail? If the answer is yes, then why should Minister Mihajlovic tell him which minister is it? I think Mrs. Mihajlovic did her part of the job. She's the Minister of Dacic's Government. She read diplomatic mail, saw what someone was saying, probably there's a description and a detailed persuasion of that meeting, and she put it out in public. The next person to answer is Prime Minister Dacic, because he is his minister. So, if he reads, did he read that dispatch? If he doesn't read who reads for him? After all, since diplomatic mail is some kind of secret, but not so strict a secret that only a few people have insights, the state secretaries also have insights from their portfolios, they get diplomatic mail, I ask Mr. Mr. Mrkic's foreign minister if he knows what they're thinking about and what meeting abroad is being thought of, which is described so that Minister Mihajlovic concluded that the minister is working against Serbia's interest? Many people in the system must have read that dispatch, but the public doesn't know who the minister is, nor do we MPs know who the minister is. I'm surprised the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee hasn't already called a session to at least the MPs of that committee get that dispatch when the Prime Minister or doesn't read or won't tell us which minister he is. From this confusion created in public, and it is a very serious issue, I conclude that it is not a minister, but the first minister or prime minister. I have reason to doubt it might be the Prime Minister who's doing it. I insist on this answer and on clarifying this situation because this is no joke and no unserious thing, but a very serious thing. When the government minister says that by seeing official documents and diplomatic mail, one minister has concluded that the minister is working against Serbia's interest, I really think the prime minister must answer. That's not what she said. Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic did not say she heard from somewhere, from some towers that it was happening but read in an official state document. I therefore insist that the prime minister and foreign minister be declared and that at least on the committee responsible, we see the dispatch mentioned by Mrs Mihajlovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28544	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28545	The National Theatre is the culture institution of the truly highest rank in each country, I hope it is also in the state of Serbia. It's an institution that is the cornerstone of national identity building. It is a national institution, a brand in which about 763 top artist, an intellectual works in Serbia, and it is a capacity few are present in some other institutions in Serbia unfortunately. Unfortunately, the National Theatre isn't talking about this position much in public over the last year. The basis for the story is a scandal that has lasted more than a year, and the essence of this scandal is a question that I will be dealing with with various ministers. The Internet is circulated by a recording of a secret session that paints the National Theatre and the Management Board and institutions in the lowest possible way and presents a disgrace. It's not what culture should represent. Instead of chairing a meeting of the Management Board to discuss three candidates for the manager who remained in the third competition, as the previous two were cancelled, the chairman of the Management Board, Radoslav Pavlovic, resigned. I must say that there is one letter from the Ministry of Culture saying that all meetings of the Management Board concerning the public competition for the proposal of the candidate director must be open to the public, both for the public information representatives and for the employees of that institution. Interestingly, the chairman of the Board of Directors has held secret sessions and these secret sessions can be seen on the Internet. It's just amazing that today in the 21st century in a country, even though it's also called Serbia that wants to be democratic, someone is deafening about the basic thing that is available to the public today, which is that information of this kind is fully available to the public. To understand this problem, it was good to read the interview of the current chairman of the Management Board in "Politica" where he says, due to the intimidation and obstruction of members of the National Theatre Management Board in the process of selecting directors, the assembly of intimidation of candidates, because of the mobbing of the deputy director, because of the co-operation with the Management Board was moved to the scene of fire protection associates, because of the inability to access information on the real financial situation in the house, because of the hiding of the fact that the candidate and vd manager Dejan Savik was removed from the National Theatre in Belgrade in November 23, 2007 and for which he remained a debt of 41 million dinars, i.e. 511 000 euros, which is why he submits his resignation and stresses that the minister was covered in his head, he is silent and is not responding. So that it doesn't stay the way it's said here, provided this is all true, I have to ask the Minister of Police what he's going to do? There are as many criminal elements here as you want about what the chairman of the National Theatre Management Board has said so far. What's this mobbing going to do about the Minister of Labour? What will the culture minister do if he has already discovered to say what the chairman of the board of directors said? From what was said in Mr Pavlovic's statement and what was not said, because here is a big struggle between SNS personnel, I don't know if there are any currents, fractions, but here are my questions. Is it true that a person with a higher school of sports management, a department of fitness, and is this the person who is now an associate in fire protection? I can imagine how much he can contribute to fire protection. Is that person a member of the SNS? Is it true that in the chair of Director Drama in the chair where Nušić, a Janko Veseinović, a Traveler, Vida Ognjenović, was brought by a man who was quite anonymous in professional circles, from Kruševac and who was not even the director of the theatre there? Membership in a particular party is understood. Who's Deputy Director Drama? Is it true that he was brought to that place from the Grand Production? Although much is said about the fact that there are surplus employees in the public sector, including in Drama and culture, I ask the following question – how many people were admitted to the National Theatre while the chairman of the National Theatre Management Board was Mr. Lale Pavlovic? Are all members of the SNS or are they in direct relatives and other relationships with the management of the house? Next question, is it true that V.D. The manager and candidate for director Mr. Dejan Savic removed from the post of director on 23.11.2007 with a debt of 41 million dinars, i.e. 511 000 euros and some other court proceedings that have not been completed or ended at the expense of the house? (President: Please finish. I will. Will the third competition for the warden be annulled? So much for the department, about the culture with the commissary vest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28546	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28547	I thank the chairman. I'm going to ask you a few questions today. First question I ask the Minister of Mining and Spatial Planning. Mr. Bačević, will you resign as Minister by the end of 2013? A year and a half has passed since Minister Bacevic was appointed to this post and elected in this parliament. In a year and a half the National Assembly has not reached a single law in the jurisdiction of the ministry, not a single amendment to the laws that are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mining and Spatial Planning. What the citizens of this country pay for is for Minister Bačević to advance the laws in his area and ask the question – what was the minister doing in the previous year and a half? It's scandalous that the minister can only speak of the Morava-Wardar Canal and the exploration of nickels. Who gave consent to the minister and on the basis of which Minister Bacevic signed a license to investigate nickels with a scandalous statement that nickel research is identical to water research? This has alarmed all the citizens of this country and the professional public. Will Mr. Bacevic issue the license to exploit nickels in the Republic of Serbia in the same way? The third thing Mr. Bacevic should resign is the fact that the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials does not pay those who should pay and for this reason we have less income in the Republic of Serbia's budget and in the budget of local self-government. As an example of this, I'm saying that RTB Bor only owes the municipality of Majdanpek 300 million dinars. Mr. Bacevic, when he was visiting RTB Bor, said he had insight into the papers and that there were no criminal acts there. You've all had opportunities to see Insider and LDP since 2010 last night, asking the government to control the funds it provides for RTB Boru guarantees. What will the police minister and the prime minister of this country do about the control of funds related to RTB Bor? I'm asking the Minister of Health. By the end of the year, all health centres should be divided into a general hospital and a health care facility. Has the ministry set up a V.D. Directors of general hospitals and health centres where separation is to be achieved and v.d. The boards of directors? I am asking this question because last week at the SO Negotin session, a decision on the adoption of the founding rights of the House of Health in Negotin and a decision on the adoption of a de-obligation balance and it is truly surprising that the local self-government in Negotin should agree on a partial balance on the final account of 2009 and on the basis of the decision of the Management Board of the Health Centre since 2010. This is 2013. I ask the Minister of Health if she has set up a V.D. Director of General Hospital in Negotin and V.D. The board of directors with a request to provide me with copies of those solutions? The third question is, I'm asking the Minister of Education. For several years now, there have been more than 15 demands from individuals who want to start private colleges. Why doesn't the Ministry of Education want to solve the problem of establishing new private colleges? So these colleges can't get credentials because they're not registered, and they can't register because they don't have accreditation. When will the Minister of Education solve this problem? The last question is a question for Mr. Stefanovic. This is where we ask Tuesdays and Thursdays questions. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been elected by this parliament, despite the fact that we of the LDP did not vote for it. Will Mr Stefanovic at least make some effort to get answers to parliamentary questions from the ministers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because of the questions we asked three or four months ago, we still do not have the answers?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28548	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28549	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, I have been asking parliamentary questions for two weeks in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Questions I referred to various addresses and I am pleased to say that I also received answers from the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, the Anti-Corruption Council and the Tax Administration, but I received a reply from Deputy Prime Minister Radojko Srbanovic. I really don't know how to qualify this answer, whether it's scandalous or not. I've been a folk MP since 2004, and it's never happened since we introduced this institution of parliamentary issues on Tuesdays and Thursdays that the minister doesn't answer but to answer questions from the Deputy Prime Minister. The Deputy Prime Minister in question says that the questions, findings, and possible conclusions are not in line with the power of the MP referred to in Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I really want this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister or even the Secretary-General of the Government - what measures will be taken against this Deputy Prime Minister who allows himself to destroy the constitutional order of this country which clearly states that the government is divided into three branches, executive, judicial and legislative? Where does he have the right to honor the People's Messenger whether or not the Messenger has asked the matter in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? I really don't know how to interpret this differently than being arrogant and insolent, and it's obvious in that ministry that it's too far gone. He's moving from the minister to his associates. Secondly, I haven't referred questions to this Deputy Prime Minister. I referred questions to Minister Sashi Radulovic and the questions were – whether it was true, and the answer could be – yes, it is true or not, it is not true. Nothing more important than that. Further says this Deputy Prime Minister – individual issues such as those relating to the transfer of management rights in a company, property map and membership of the Association of Banks Managers are based on a malicious misrepresentation of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. The same Anti-Corruption Agency answered my parliamentary question by saying that Minister Radulovic transferred management rights from his firm, Market Capital, to his wife. Now, you tell me, do I misread Article 2? The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, if I quote it, which says - is a related person is a spouse or an out-of-marriage partner of a functioner, a blood relative of a functioner in a straight line, i.e. in a lateral line, concluded with another degree of kinship, adopter or adoption of a functioner, as well as any other legal or physical person who, under other grounds and circumstances, can reasonably be considered as being interested in the functionor. So the transfer of management rights to the wife cannot be done by the functioner, because the wife is a connected face. If this is malicious, I am prepared to apologize to both the Minister and the Anti-Corruption Agency. Once again, I ask Minister Sasa Radulovic to answer the questions asked, and I ask this Deputy Prime Minister to help the minister gather answers to these questions, but that he no longer has the right to answer the MP, because here, in this room, no Deputy Prime Minister, other than the Minister, has the right to receive a word and has no right to enter into debate with the MP. As I said, these other institutions to which I referred parliamentary questions have been answered, but, behold, the minister, on a personal request, replaced the Director of the Agency for the License of Banks Managers and brought to his post a person who is in charge of the administrative dispute against the Agency. That means the same face will be on the defendant's side and on the prosecutor's side. On my question of a public debate on changes and additions to the Bank's law, the government's deputy told me that the public debate was pending until November 30th. Otherwise it started on November 21st and lasts until 30th and only one public debate is held. I draw attention to the government to take a look at the opinion on the assessment of the risk of corruption in the provisions of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank's Banking Act, which the Anti-Corruption Agency has done and put on its website. In this opinion, which has a dozen and more sides, most members have corrupt elements. I hope the government won't allow this bankruptcy law without this opinion... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Who legalizes the bankruptcy mafia comes to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28550	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28551	Some time ago, the Belgrade Court of Appeals issued a decision on the release of Gnjilan terrorists, Cypriot terrorists who, regardless of the fact that they had committed crimes against the Serb population and the non-Albanian population of KIM, despite the fact that there was a witness associate who admitted all this and pointed out certain actions, regardless of the verdicts of the first-degree court, simply the Court of Appeal was deafened about all this and ruled against the release of these terrorists. What is called an independent judiciary should be subject to independence and that should not be disputed. However, such actions simply stain the court profession and do damage primarily to the state of Serbia. I ask the question to the High Council of the Judiciary – when and in what way will they review all these decisions of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade in this case and will they act on the charges filed against judges who have reached such a verdict? I ask the second question to the Minister of Finance, Mr Lazar Krstic – are the 2014 budgets for compensation under the ruling of the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg? It is the verdict reached in the first-degree procedure, based on discrimination against Serbia's war veterans, and in the second-degree procedure, which these days is expected to be over, and all indications are that the first-degree verdict will be confirmed, simply the state of Serbia will have to pay off huge funds, somewhere over a billion euros in war veterans, which at this point, in this way, budgeted and impossible. My question to the Minister of Finance is – is he even familiar with the procedure that takes place before the International Court and, if he is aware, is some budget items foreseen? From what we see in the draft budget, it's not even on the map. The third question I ask concerns the president of parliament, Mr Stefanovic. Who knows which time I ask the same thing, which is – when will the Law on Combat and Disabilities Protection, which has been in the Parliament's procedure for a year? The last answer from President Stefanovic was that the College of Parliament would consider and determine the order of priorities of the law that has been passed here and for a long time, as the sessions continue, we see that the laws are passing anyway, but the Law on Combat and Disabilities Protection, which is primarily necessary to clarify the country's attitude towards war veterans, is not going to come on the agenda. I signed the law a year ago and it was supported by 30,100 citizens of Serbia with their signature and it has all the grounds for putting on the agenda, when it comes to this parliament. I really don't understand why this topic isn't put on the agenda once and for us to clear it up, even if we refuse one such proposal, because we are the only country from the space of the former Yugoslavia that has not been governed by this area by any legal regulations, but we are applying the rules of 1947, 1992, 1998, and since then, we have been standing on the stand that war veterans, who have more than 400,000 in Serbia, do not exist in this Serbia for legislative and at least for executive power. I expect the president of the assembly to put on the agenda after such an important matter, as is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which no doubt has priority in parliament's work, but in some next session, to put it on the agenda before the MPs, to declare whether they want to discuss it at all, and if they want to discuss it, whether or not to adopt a Law on Combat and Disabilities Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28552	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28553	Thank you. I want to remind the public one more time, before I ask the question, that today marks the Day of Persons with Disabilities and invite all colleagues, but also the public in Serbia, to be much more sensitive and with much more understanding that we are solving the problems of this population, which is actually very vulnerable in Serbia. The position of people with disabilities is improved compared to the previous period, but we still have a lot to do on this subject, to help people living with some kind of handicap. There was an initiative, and I think it is still the initiative at the beginning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to form a special group of MPs to deal with the problem of these people with disabilities. Now let me also ask the question, first of all, to the government of Serbia, as far as the investigation has come, whether an investigation has been launched at all, and if it has arrived, about determining the responsibility, or the persons responsible for the appearance, in the local campaign on Vozdovac, posters that are, to say the least, scandalous? The poster calls for political persecution, the marking of political insinuators, and I don't think that's how a political campaign should be run in Serbia. At the beginning, after a press conference for SNS member Nikola Selaković, we received insufficient information that someone else was responsible for the appearance of such posters. These were not accurate information, the organisations listed as responsible are not responsible for this, and I ask that the competent authorities determine who actually ordered it, who paid for it and who printed out the posters, are free to say which fascism at the small door is trying to drag itself into the political campaign and in the way of political communication in Serbia. It is not a way of political communication that is a characteristic of SNS. We'll always point out and look for the culprits who are trying to make us work like this. I call once again on those who have ordered, paid and printed these types of posters in the local campaign on Vozdovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28554	Dear People's MPs, since there are no more reported... (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28555	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I've been an MP in this assembly for a year. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 87th and 88th. Never has the Assembly been 40 minutes late in any conference when the budget was debated. When the budget is discussed, and the ruling majority of 40 minutes are unable to collect the quorum, it is a clear message to us that this government has fallen and that there are problems, but try to solve these problems among yourselves. This delay was still as minor as the delay of Dragica Nikolic, the first lady in America. Let's not look at worse examples. I think this inappropriate 40-minute delay at the beginning of the session required this session to be delayed or delayed, to agree on a ruling coalition on the budget, or to have an explanation of why we were 40 minutes late. We didn't get an explanation or an apology. Come on, we didn't get it, but at least these ladies and gentlemen sitting upstairs at the gallery, they were right, when they already tried to come to parliament today, to explain why we were 40 minutes late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28556	Mr. People's MP, you were required to break the Rules of Procedure to advertise immediately after it came to pass. So you had to start at the beginning. But you have the right to ask that in the voting day we plead. (No) I inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm setting a break now. We continue work at 11.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28557	We're going back to work. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposed acts of the session agenda as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that in addition to the representatives of the motionary Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance and Dr Jovan Krkobbic, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour, Employment, and Social Policy, I invited the sittings to attend: Nikola Ćorsović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ljubisa Milosavljevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Pension and Disabilities in the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Social Policy, Irina Stevanović Gavrljevic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Radmila Jagodić, Assistant Minister of Finance and Nada Mirkovic, Head of the Department of Finance. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Janko Veselinović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28558	Your Honor, I'm advertising Article 87. The Rules of Procedure, perhaps some other members of the Rules of Procedure, above all concerning the dignity of the National Assembly. Dear President, you have scheduled a session today with 20 points of the agenda, and the agenda points concern tax laws, tax reforms and budgets. You've scheduled a session in 10.00 hours. It's 12.35, so it's 12.30. You can't provide a quorum for such an important topic. You started the session, you interrupted it, you set a break until 11.40, now it's practically an hour past that break. Which is why if you don't have a quorum, you didn't admit it. Set a new day for the session. If you don't even have a quorum then call the election. This is citizen abuse. I believe that Mr. Krstic, too, was uncomfortable, probably didn't think that for the first time at his fiery baptism he would come without the Assembly having a quorum to decide. Please, given the dignity of the National Assembly, the dignity of the MPs and the attitude towards the citizens of Serbia, who chose the MPs, you clearly say whether this government has a majority, or does not have a majority and that you admit it. We're gonna start the debate today at 2:00 and work tonight, right? Was that the purpose of this delay in the beginning of the session? Please, Mr. President, ensure normal work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, these are not normal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28559	As you've seen, most of it exists. We're going on with our normal work. There is no need for you to determine when the National Assembly will work, since you can't know that. And by when they'll do that we'll see during the day. There's no need to be nervous. As far as the dignity of the National Assembly is concerned, I remind the MPs of all MPs, that it is the obligation of the MPs of the National Assembly to participate in the work of the National Assembly, when the meetings of the National Assembly are, since we are equal in all other rights, the obligation of the MPs to participate in the work. This, of course, applies to MPs of the opposition, and I am convinced that your parliamentary group wants to make a huge contribution to the debate on the budget will today actively participate and contribute to the quality work of the National Assembly. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28560	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure Rule 126, paragraph 2, which says the time to vote by using the electronic system is 15 seconds. We had just attended the longest wait, the longest 15 seconds in Serbia's history since the arrival of southern Slovenians in the Balkans. We've never counted for 15 seconds. Maybe time is right for you, we're running out of time, and this government is running out of time. You should have set a break, not to humiliate the Serbian Parliament, because it is truly inappropriate for this long to last for 15 seconds and wait this long for you to gather together. I am convinced that the Assembly will work tonight because your goal is to work at night and to hide from the public what is happening. It is your legitimate right as a majority, to obstruct parliamentary work, but it is an unprecedented political practice for the ruling majority to obstruct parliamentary work in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28561	I just have to inform you that the decision of this National Assembly in collaboration with the National Assembly service has provided for, despite direct television transmission, that not only the plenary sessions but also the session of parliamentary committees are now being broadcast live by the Internet, which has never been a practice before. So the public of the work of the National Assembly is the largest in history since the establishment of parliamentary life in Serbia. So that the National Assembly has full public work and all citizens can see at any time what MPs do not only those in the plural but also those working on board sessions. As for the vote, you are right that it lasted more than 15 seconds but the intensity and the one who wrote the Rules of Procedure, I hope that it was, to determine the true and sincere result of the vote, namely the establishment of the quorum, so that when the MPs present in the hall can't use their identification cards to establish a quorum or register, my duty as president of the National Assembly is to allow them to do so even if it lasts for more than 15 seconds. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28562	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the People's Assembly of Position 1 in which it is said that MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to log out when leaving the hall. More than obvious that representatives of the party of the former regime are in a certain way obstructing the work, i.e. not meeting the conditions laid down in Article 127(1). So, those who try to postpone the session as much as possible, when they fail to fulfil their obligation under article 127, then continue their obstruction and seek the delay of the session due to the alleged lack of quorum despite the fact that it was those who did not insert the card into the parliamentary unit. This Rules of Procedure has not been written by you or me or by this majority on this side. This Rules of Procedure have been inherited precisely by those who now resent us for their mistakes, i.e. they resent us for not putting their cards into their parliamentary units, which is the obligation of Article 127. I am surprised by the fact that the Rules of Procedure have advertised persons who have not been identified at all, have inserted a parliamentary card into the MP's unit and thus gives the impression that they are not at all in the session, but despite the fact that they are not there, they are using the right to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind that they abuse it, that they mention the election. Let them try, let them discuss the election in Vojvodina, there are strongest, to see how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28563	You're essentially right to write it in article 127. The Rules of Procedure, however, you know that parliamentary practice is that MPs of the ruling parties provide a quorum for work, especially when the agenda is established and when the most important decisions are made. MPs of opposition parties have the right not to be identified as an expression of their parliamentary position. However, firmly interpreting the Rules of Procedure, strictly interpreting it, article 127 says MPs are obliged to identify themselves when entering the hall to insert a card into the MP's unit and that is a parliamentary obligation in that sense. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28564	Article 27. Rules of Procedure. First, I agree that the session was late and that it is a violation of the business provisions, but I call on you, Mr Stefanovic, that at the moment, if the session has already been two and a half hours late, ensure that you do not convert a debate of 20 laws to increase VAT, you prohibit the employment of people to two years, that this does not turn into your prejudication of the rather strange interpretations of MP Marijan Risticevic. Since it's not disputed that you have a majority, somehow you've secured it, I'm not getting into it. My political act was not to give you a quorum for the start of the session, because I want the government to fall and make a different budget. If we have mastered this alphabet of political life, that one final session should begin normally and we should talk about budgets and budget laws, and I ask you to provide that with all the participants in this room, without these petty pranks that constantly mean that someone here is obstructing. I'm not a representative of the old regime, I didn't want to give a quorum. It's my political act. Now I want to discuss the agenda and please make it possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28565	You have the right to do so, I agree with that, but Article 127 clearly states – that the MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall, by inserting a card into the MP's unit. I didn't write this Rules of Procedure. So this Rules of Procedure was written by someone else. As far as I'm concerned, you know that I never insisted on it, and I think that the same thing, if I were an opposition MP, I probably wouldn't have put my card in either, and I wouldn't have given the ruling majority a chance to, thanks to my card, get the quorum and I told the MP. It's already a matter of politics and I agree with you and I hope we start working and move on. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28566	And I am absolutely sure that we will begin to work, Mr. President, but I have to read Article 107 and say that – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. In my opinion, it is the pinnacle of cynicism that a member of 127 advertises a MP who has publicly admitted to stealing my letter card here. It is simply unacceptable for me, that he interprets the Rules of Procedure and says that MPs are obliged to use only their own...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28567	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because only the President can do the violation of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28568	Wait a minute, let me say that dignity is threatened in this way. But let's move on to work, wait for the citizens to hear the tax measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28569	I agree to keep working. You were presented with records of the Second and Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Committee on Administrative Affairs - Budgetary and Budgetary - Immunity Issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted them in writing any objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 4 and 6 October 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 124, no one, abstention – one, voted – 45, out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 4 and 6 October 2013. I am voting on the Paper of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 6 November 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 125, against – no one, abstention – has voted – two, of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 6 November 2013. With the call of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly require the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under the urgent procedure on a proposal to withdraw certain points from the proposed agenda, on a proposal for a merger of the debate and a proposal for the introduction of a search in particular immediately following the completion of the principled review, on proposals for the law referred to in points 1 to 11 of the proposed agenda. The SPS parliamentary group proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, has voted for a total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The DS parliamentary group proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the draft decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -116, no one, abstentioned, has voted, 11 MPs did not vote out of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision amending the Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -124, no one with abstentions – there are two MPs who have not voted from a total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -124, no one with abstentions – there are two MPs who have not voted from a total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -124, no one with abstentions – there are two MPs who have not voted from a total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, however - no one with abstentions - there is one MP who has not voted from the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -124, no one with abstentions – there are two MPs who have not voted from a total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, however - no one with abstentions - there is one MP who has not voted from the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013, be put on the agenda of the emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, however - no one with abstentions - there is one MP who has not voted from the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013, be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, no one, on the contrary, with abstentions, has, four MPs have not voted from the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, however - no one with abstentions - there is one MP who has not voted from the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 125, however - no one with abstention - one, there are none who have not voted out of the total 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the reduction of the net income of the public sector, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -122, no one, abstentioned - one, three MPs did not vote from a total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the return of seized property and compensation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013, be put on the agenda of the emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I'm setting a 10-minute break. We're going back to work. [[after breaks]] Before we continue to work, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system to determine the quorum. I find that there is a quorum to work with. We're going back to work. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Law on the return of the seized property and compensation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one of the 127 MPs present, voted for – 126. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put on the agenda the draft decision to give its consent in the Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the National Employment Service’s 2013 Financial Plan, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 13 MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of a motion for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted three out of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2 of the Second Act on the Anti-Corruption Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 November 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the total of 127 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move on to proposals to withdraw certain points from the proposed agenda. National MP Bojan Djuric, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to withdraw the item from the proposed agenda of this session – Proposal for a Law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. MP Bojan Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28570	I won't speak for long, because I don't want to separate from some of Mr. Jeremic's duties, since I see that there's a quorum of the ruling coalition hanging on him, so that you don't return him to the O.R. once again half way. I suggested withdrawing the draft law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act from the proposed agenda of this session. I think the reasons for such a proposal are obvious. In a country that has this big problem with the PIO Fund, and we, Mr Krstic, have talked to you about it at meetings that we had, I think at the very least, it is dangerous and harmful to propose at this point a bill amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which actually has one member, where you change the coefficients, or the degree of increasing pension harmonisation in the following year. This has made it impossible for MPs in this House, above all the MPs of the opposition, to intervene in many other places in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, and to propose amendments that we believe are necessary at this point, and that without them, the entire pension and disability insurance system, or the PIO Fund, will collapse in the coming year. I remind both you and the public in Serbia that it is a fund that goes through over five billion euros annually and that it is actually the largest and worst company in this country, a company that actually makes almost 2.5 billion euros a year. In a situation where you have suggested joining the agenda points in this way, when this is just one of the 11 points of the agenda, I find it absolutely unacceptable to bring the National Assembly into such a situation that MPs have one or two minutes to talk about the essential problem of this country, the PIO Fund. We are prepared to do so in this debate, even if you do not respond to this proposal and do not remove this point from the proposed agenda, open the issue of huge abuses in the PIO Fund, the way that this fund works, the huge resources that are being poured out through it, unintended, ineffective use of the huge assets that this fund has, the way it manages in that fund. I think it's a shame that we don't touch that part of the PIO Act that, for example, determines how to run the PIO Fund. I think it is inhumane, inhumanely inhumane towards this country that you are proposing a law that practically forecloses employment in the public sector, which will allow thousands of young people, who would otherwise enter the system, into the education system, into the health system, into all other parts of the public administration, therefore, to shut down their access and service and progress completely, to deny them the possibility of helping their country, while saving as white bears 21 members of the PIO Management Board, and incompetent people who are not able, or a large majority of them, to manage their own assets, and let alone the property of Serbian citizens who, again, again, only through the circulation of pension money is five billion euros. (President: Time. ) These were the reasons that led me to suggest that this item of the agenda be removed from the agenda. I would suggest that this is also the case with regard to the decisions on the PIO financial plan. That's not possible for business reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28571	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, v – four, abstention – one, 126 of the total attendance of 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bojan Djuric, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to withdraw points from the proposed agenda of this session: a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2014 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2014. However, given that these proposals are not on the agenda as specific points of the agenda, they are considered as an integral part of the draft law on the 2014 budget of the Republic of Serbia on proposals from MP Bojan Đuric for the withdrawal of these points from the National Assembly agenda cannot decide. National MP Aleksandra Djurovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 2nd. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: First Joint Principle Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System Act, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Taxation and Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Legal Income of Legal Persons, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Tax Procedures of the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Changes of the Amendments to the Law on Social Insurance, Proposal for an Amendments to the Law on the Payments of State Employees, Proposal for a Law on Tax Procedures of the Net of Persons in the Public Sectors and Proposals on Returns of the Law on Returns of the Law on Returns of the Laws of the Laws of the Law of the Law of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Nationals of the Nationals of the Nationals of the Nationals of the Nationals of the National Assemblys of the National Assemblys of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the National Assembly, proposed. Another joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the 2014 budget of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2014, Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2014, Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2014 and Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2014, Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the National Employment Service Decision for 2013. Third Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2 of the Second Act on the Anti-Corruption Agency and Decision on a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 7(1). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act. The Fourth Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party and the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the National Assembly President Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Does MP Aleksandra Djurovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted seven of the total attendance of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Djurovic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the examination be carried out in particular on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 11 of the proposed agenda immediately following the completion of the principled review of those draft laws. Does MP Aleksandra Djurovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the total attendance of the 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to put on the agenda of the emergency proceedings, on a proposal to withdraw certain points from the proposed agenda, on a proposal to merge the debate and on a proposal to conduct a search in particular immediately after the completion of the initial search, on the basis of Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted four of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tobacco law, 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, 9. Proposal for a law amending the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, 10. Proposal for a law on reducing public sector net income, 11. Proposal for a law amending the Return Act of the Abuse of Assets and Reimbursement, 12. Proposal for a Law on the 2014 budget of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2014, Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2014, Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the military insurance for 2014, and Proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service’s financial plan for 2014, 13. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2013, 14. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2013, 15. Proposal for a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, 16. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2 of the Second Act on the Anti-Corruption Agency, 17. Decision on a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 7(1). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, 18. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia Group 19. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party 20. The motion for a decision amending the Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the president of the National Assembly, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. We're going to work on a set agenda. National MP Janko Veselinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28572	Mr. President, I didn't answer the Rules of Procedure, but it was in accordance with Rule 97. In view of the fact that we are sitting material that has been called for today in late afternoon hours and that today there is a united debate on the following laws – the income tax of citizens, amendments and additions to the tobacco law, additional value tax, tax on the profit of legal persons, tax administration, etc., so it is clear that this ruling coalition, formed and after the reconstruction of the Government, is not the majority, and that today you did not have a quorum for the start of work without some people, or MPs you met in the hallway, but, however, we want to say how badly these laws are bad, harmful to Serbia's citizens, which are going to be affected by the cost of living. We're asking to double the time of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28573	Thank you. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I have a proposal from MP Janka Veselinovic to duplicate the time of discussion. We're going to vote. I ask the National Assembly to plead on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 93 of the total of 127 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Given that the time of debate is five hours and that the time is allocated to the parliamentary groups according to the instructions you received in the material, I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit applications for a word with the order of the MPs. Does the representative of Proposer Lazar Krstic, the finance minister, want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28574	Thank you, Mr. President. I will briefly take the opportunity of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament to speak to you. These eleven laws I will try to explain why we have proposed these laws in this form, to briefly explain what these laws contain and to refer to what they represent, but I will not discuss this in detail about the budget, as I assume we will do so at the next item of the agenda. So why do we have these eleven laws we're discussing today? Three main reasons, one is facing reality, recognising problems and trying, the first step towards resolving the problem. I am referring to the deficit here and I am referring to the reduction in the middle and long term of public debt, relative to the gross social product. Another reason why we are discussing these laws is to speed up the fight against the gray economy, whether in excise products, whether in charge of VAT as such, means to tighten some criminal measures and better respect for the law. The third reason some of these laws are here is a technical improvement, some of the systemic reform laws adopted in the last year by this government. Before I go into all the details, I would like to say that these laws, at least in this reform work, are in no way different and bring nothing new to what has been published, I think that October 7th was a cabinet session, i.e. included in a fiscal strategy that the government adopted as a roof document of its strategy on 1 November. So, as far as this first reason and facing reality are concerned, we're now talking about the 7.1%) deficit, which is usually a total deficit, a deficit that we haven't previously called that name to say bad. But what we faced by coming and looking at, to say some basic situation to make it look like in 2014, was a deficit of about 9%. Some foreign institutions will say even more. We also faced a situation where public debt increased by 29% at the end of 2008, i.e. about 64% at the end of 2013. It's some kind of borrowing limit we can go to, maybe we can do another ten percent. Realistically, before they ask questions whether things can work or not. The third reason is the commitments we've made in the past, I'd say for the most part, five years, which various public enterprises have taken as far as possible under the guarantees of the state, which the banks have questioned, so to speak, in business policy, especially those with a government stake, have loaded on the back of the budget. I'm talking about one figure of about 150 billion dinars, which we're going to have to pay in the next four years, so to speak, below the line. That's what doesn't get into this budget that we're going to talk about at the next agenda. As for respect for the law and some of these laws that are proposed here among these 11 amendments and additions, it strengthens criminal policy and accelerates the application of tax collection and is part of this reform of the tax administration, which we have talked about in public and which we have to implement. There are not many questionable things, I would say that we are forced to implement these measures on the spending side and we are forced to implement them in the way we do it here, however, in the long term what we need is to respect the law and to combat illegal trade in excise products, primarily tobacco and of course oil products, and to start charging taxes as it should be. There are some serious things that need to be done and organised in terms of tax administrations, which are already in the last year, but there are other systemic problems that we need to solve when it comes to companies in restructuring, in other public enterprises, public utility companies, so that we can put them on healthy feet and allow them to pay taxes and other obligations to the state. We are talking about these measures that are regulated by these laws and amendments and additions to the law, some of them are not and cannot be ideal. Most of them are not ideal and not popular. The opportunity to reform ourselves in a more gradual way, I would say, if we had missed when others took advantage of it, I think primarily in Europe, and that was at the height of this global financial crisis, which we have declared our development opportunity and did not address the illogicalities that we have in the budget and in the system, how other countries have been doing and why there was then and the support of external institutions, I would say that there had to be an understanding of people in our country, I would say that we have understood and trusted perhaps even gambled. With these measures, we're trying to save the uncontrollable scenario and they've been taken at the last minute, but I believe in time. If implemented, starting with this budget, then and in the way defined by the fiscal strategy, the uncontrolled scenario is the Greek scenario, is the Portuguese scenario, the Irish scenario, a scenario in which we are not the ones in this Parliament who have the last word on it, what we want to do and how we will run our policy. It's a bad scenario, a scenario that we should avoid, which is the only right and meaningful thing to try to avoid, regardless of the difficult situation we're in. And also, these measures, the set of measures that we're talking about here, are one minimum that is necessary, although we've heard that we need more for some analysis. We have heard from some that there is an alternative, some scenario, and if we have not heard any coherent and nicholic, a minimum that is necessary, and also socially responsible. It's just that we've been trying in this limited time that we have, to adopt these laws, and in the extreme line, to form a budget according to how we simply address and how we're going to sort of share this burden, until we have enough time to adequately eliminate the anomalies that exist, mostly in the public sector, I mean public enterprises and, of course, the state administration. I'm going to mention again what I talked about in the government and a few times later, so what are the laws and what are we actually doing here? It's not hard for me to say and look into anyone else's eyes, because I believe it's the only way we can get rid of these very scenarios that I've talked about and that have happened to some other country, not so far away. So, by these laws, although some of these are not ideal measures, we increase the VAT rate from 8 to 10%, we transfer computers and IT equipment, which is in accordance with the rules, so to speak of the European Union, from a lower rate. I mean, we didn't just do it, we did it as much as the rest of these measures in the dialogue as possible and how much time it allowed. It seems to me that we've done everything in our power to see what makes sense and what doesn't make sense. Although it was initially announced that we would consider and have considered raising and transferring hotelers and hotel services, let's say from a lower point of view, together with talks with hotel associations and other experts and members of the professional public, we came to the conclusion that and if it makes sense to do so in Belgrade, it makes no sense to introduce it into a law like this, because it would have bad effects on the hotel industry in the rest of Serbia. This VAT increase is about 250 dinars per consumer basket. It's not small, especially in these circumstances where domestic consumption stagnates, but it's necessary. It's necessary until we've established the system. We're setting it up to fight the gray economy, which we're going to succeed in the next three years to double what we're going to get by increasing this VAT. Another measure or to say the second effect of these laws will be the reduction of net earnings in the public sector. Also, something we haven't mentioned, and I think it's quite right and I'm glad the government supported it, and I hope the National Assembly will support it, too, is reducing the period of right to compensation for elected, appointed and appointed persons from six to three months. To make it simple, it means that those who stop their post in the state administration, including me and the MPs who are here will not receive their salary in six months for those who do not have the next job, but we have put it down to three months which is in line with some standards and outside Serbia. Again, this is the pre-cursor for payment classes that we're going to introduce into the entire public sector. They already exist somewhat in the state administration, but there's an anomaly here. In order for someone who does the same job in a different place in a different ministry to earn not only the ministry but also comparable jobs in education and in health care to earn as much as he deserves by the weight of the job, according to the professional provision he has, and of course in accordance with the economic opportunities that the state has for it. Also, we have considered in detail what and in what way we stimulate and business, tax incentives, concrete investment incentives in profit taxes, and this is something that we also, considering how it works with both us and elsewhere, realized that it is not of primary importance and from a poll and talks with businessmen is not of primary importance for the promotion of economy, and thus neither for the state in the next few years, since 2014, but since 2015, 2016 due to the principle of tax collection, we are making something more than 20 billion savings, or more income. Also, we adopted, not only thinking about 2014 although I would say something that might be logical on the political side, and on the extended indexation for public sector wages and pensions of 0.5% twice a year, nominally in 2015, 2016. We've moved the general state we're facing as a state we've moved, we've in no way disputed or abolished the payment of advances based on restitution and finally, and after looking at the results, so to speak, that is, the data we have now for the first time in the register of public sector employees, where we have 740,000 people, which is about 20% more than we thought by the most optimistic or pessimistic estimates that we have the limit to say employment in the public sector, where we're going to be able to establish one government body that will be able to look at exceptions, and where we're going to have to force all the bodies and budget users in the public sector, to look at their real employment needs and where we'll be able to have a review and control of the way that happens. I think most laws are actually explained in terms of what we're going to discuss today. Other laws that we will not talk about today, but which are important laws to implement the reform properly and which are the other side of this medal, which relate to the acceleration of the economic environment in our country, are the Labour Act, the Planning and Construction Act. I believe that these laws together with this macro-fiscal stability, which we are introducing with this budget and the laws that we are going to debate today, will actually lead us to a situation where we will be seen again as a country that is on the right track by foreign investors, but also domestic economies. What I would like to underline again is that what we are discussing today is not in any way fundamentally different from what has been in the public for almost two months, i.e. what is detailed in the fiscal strategy and explained, and the fiscal strategy was adopted on 01 November. What I'm also saying is that we've heard a lot of individual criticism. When I say individual criticisms, I mean individual measures or individual parts of any reform laws, either budgets as such. But we haven't heard any holistic alternatives. We have not heard any alternatives that explain how it is otherwise possible to stabilise public finances and start an economy in this medium term. In doing so, for the first time we have heard of the measures contained in the amendments and amendments to the law, as well as the budget by the fiscal council, by the professional public, by foreign institutions that they are real. For the first time, we're going to be having a debate about whether this is the right policy and not whether the numbers are correct or not. I think it's good, and I hope it'll be a good basis for a constructive discussion here. What we are adopting today is the first step in the way of major reforms that we want to implement over the next two to three years. To understand systemic and structural reforms mean nothing more than to translate – we talk about education, that in education we value those teachers, teachers, teachers who achieve results. We have ways with these exams, by participating in international different types of testing to measure the performance of people working in the public sector. The same goes for healthcare where the entire system will be improved, especially for public enterprises and state banks. The introduction of corporate introduction, financial performance indicators, operational efficiency that will allow after a while as a public whose money is being spent here, where money should be obtained in the case of profits, the ability to point fingers and say – this works or this does not work. This is not a trivial process because it is not only about individual public enterprises but it is about hidden systems of subsidies and social givings that are distorted and not just and which we have to correct. It can't be corrected by 11 laws and corrected in 11 weeks. It's not something that takes more time and it's the only responsibility to solve it that way and that's basically what we do. To answer this, this is the way we want to address the reforms in the PIO Fund, i.e. in the pension system as such, and we will debate together here in the first half of the following year along with reforms of some other system laws, such as the Law on Budgetary System, such as the Law on financing of local administrations, and hopefully, the Law on financing of the AP Vojvodina, to which we will approach. So, I would just perhaps remind for the end that we are on our way to the EU and we chose this not because someone is on the ground, but because we want to introduce stability and to go towards a system based on legal and economic security. These are the first steps in that direction. This isn't a demagogy. There is no political reason why the government, or the ruling majority in this House, and hopefully some opposition parties, would support these measures and this budget. These laws are not laws that make political points. This budget is not a budget that brings political points. These are laws and budgets that are a step forward and the only political response to the thing to do, the only alternative we have. I just want to thank you, because we have done this very quickly in the last three months, and we have done a lot, in terms of a credible fiscal strategy, in terms of amendments and addition to these laws, there are 11 today, in terms of budgeting and in this short time we are going through amendments to all Members of Parliament and committee. I just want to thank my co-workers at the Ministry of Finance, who have really done a lot in the last three months and done a lot to make this happen. Finally, we stand open and hope that this time will be used for a constructive debate, that we will discuss on the basis of what is real and what is possible, and that we will not use these five hours, as far as we are determined to discuss this law, as well as the time we have determined to discuss the budget, to address the past. I'd rather discuss the future, how and how we can improve these proposals together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28575	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28576	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to try to make the SVM's views of these laws before us. As we know, under the first item of the agenda, we will have a debate on a set of laws that we must pass in order to comply with the basic principles of the Government, in the case of the existing law or the upcoming Budget Act for 2014. In addition to a set of tax laws, we also have the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on alterations of salaries of civil servants and deputies, we also have the Law on the reduction of the income of persons in the public sector, the Law on tobacco, etc. By reading these laws, last time I heard from Mr. Secretary that most of the changes were legal-technical. Perhaps my comrades from other parliamentary groups will talk about these technical or legal changes, that it is because of the intricacies of the coalition that runs the government, but I think we must in principle change those laws that are not very good. We need to improve the laws to make our financial situation as good as possible. As for some changes, they have so-called. fiscal or financial character, which will very much affect the budget for next year and perhaps 2015 and 2016. These are major changes, especially in VAT increases, reduced VAT rates from 8% to 10%. We have changes regarding the suspension of the investment loan for fixed assets and development, in the Law on corporate income tax, and then by introducing so-called Solidarity tax. In the Payments Act, after the function of the officials has ceased, those six months have been reduced to three months. These are the kind of things that will immediately affect the budget next year. Now I would like to say a few words about the law that is before us, which are amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, and I would like to pass the second law, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, since these two laws are connected. Article 1 The budget system law is proposed indexation or so on. Restricted pension and salary growth, public sector earnings for 2015 and 2016. We know that for next year, that pension growth is 0.5%, 1% next year, and the salary is going to rise by 2%. It's written here for 2015 and 2016 that wages and pensions will grow twice a year by 1%. We think that the cap on wage and pension growth is necessary, since such a measure affecting budget expenditure is around 55% of our expenditures are salaries and pensions. I think that's how the existing law solved the case, that pensions and salaries grow with consumer prices. By this new law or by amending the law, we're technically not going to freeze wages, but we're going to block their growth. This law has set linear growth in public sector and pensions for about 3.5% for the next three years. Some colleagues may say that it should be compared to inflation growth for the next three years, but I think inflation or inflation growth can be difficult to determine for the next three years. We'll be happy if inflation is only 3.5% in the next three years. With these measures, I think we will lower the purchasing power of the pensioners and unfortunately, if we see well, if we see that they are customers of our products, of our domestic products, then this will indirectly affect the decline of domestic production. I hope this doesn't happen. Still in Article 1. The government has proposed a ban on the employment of new people in the public sector, with the aim of filling up vacant jobs by 31 December 2015. This can only be done in exceptional cases or circumstances, with the government's consent. The proposal envisions the total number of employees for a certain period of time, due to the increased volume of work, only to be employed 10% of the total number of employees. The newspaper here is that, in addition to the suspension of the transfer funds, fines are also prescribed for users of public funds, and also for responsible persons. We have exceptions to this law. These are courts, public prosecutors, elected and appointed persons, appointed persons in state and local self-government. The directors of public enterprises are also put here. In the second point or in the member of this law, it is stated when the centralised profit account will begin. So it'll start on 1 January 2015. We've been here over a year of this application. We hope that with this member based on the Central Register of Public Sector Employees, we will solve the problem and bad practice that some people in different local self-governments receive a second or higher salary than those who do the same work in other local self-governments. As for the Law on Tax on Income, we positively assess and support, and in particular Article 5, amend the Law amending Article 85. Law applicable in point 16). It is a matter of precise tax arrangements for other incomes, which are not paid on revenues from the sale of agricultural and forest products and medicinal products. This is about natural persons who are farmers' owners, agricultural pensioners and, of course, those natural persons who contribute to compulsory social security pay for the solution and in accordance with the law. We also positively estimate that in the new additional Article 5, which refers to the level of normised costs of 90%, which are recognised in determining tax revenue as a tax base based on income from agricultural and forest products and medicinal products. To this law, the biggest observation is that you did not pay attention to lawyers, doctors, dentists and owners of private offices. Unfortunately, they will remain in the flat-rate taxation and will not run these books in order to pay taxes based on guided books. The current legal solution is that these cobwebs seem to have a salary of 25,000 to 35,000 dinars net monthly, but we think it's absurd and it's not quite true. Mr. Minister, as a non-party figure and as a financial expert, why did you leave out this category of cobwebs, why didn't you transfer them to book-keeping taxpayers? I think we'd have extra income with this change. As far as the Value Added Tax Act is concerned, as we know, from January 1st next year the lower tax rate will rise, i.e. it will increase from 8% to 10%. Here, as you said, the computer and computer equipment will fall into the second class of taxes. So, lower so-called. A special rate will be applied to basic life supplies, medicines, medical aids and, unfortunately, to communals. With this proposal, I read somewhere, the government expects about 20 billion dinars of new incomes to receive a budget. So, the increase in this VAT I think the citizens of Serbia will feel in their pockets. I'm not saying they're gonna get hit hard, but the poorest citizens of these hundreds of dinars mean a lot. For some, it's a great time to get to the next pension. Some citizens will feel these measures more, and they are citizens who work in the public sector. Then I would move on to those laws that affect them, which is the Law on reducing the net income of the public sector. As you said, this is the first step in public sector reform, which we will see the effect of this law in the following year, in 2014. Under this law, salaries above 60,000 dinars will be taxed by 20%, over 100,000 dinars with 25%. With this proposed law, there will be savings, if I may say so, about 15 billion dinars. The control of this law will be carried out by the tax administration. Of course, fines are also provided if this law is not respected. We think it's bad that there are above-average pensions left out in this law. We ask – why are these above-average pensions left out of this solidarity tax? We think that by introducing a solidarity tax on state pensions, it would receive about 13 to 14 billion dinars. The second question – why did some workers of certain ministries not take into account, and in particular we mean the workers of the MUP, those who have been receiving bonuses for years in advance? There we could save about six billion dinars. So the total savings would be with these measures of around 20.5 billion dinars. Mr. Minister said that these measures are not ideal, but they are just, if we look at an alternative, that public sector wages will be reduced. This is the fact that in the public sector, 30% to 35% are higher incomes than in the private sector. Some advisors, perhaps your advisors are making more money than you, Mr. Minister, but it's now in our system, unfortunately, so. The next question – did you take into account that with these measures, highly qualified people or highly qualified labour will move into the private sector or that perhaps even worse, they will go abroad? Here we especially think of specialists doctors, economists and other experts. In the company profit tax law, we do not think it should be in one word – it is deleted: "repeal tax relief for investments or incentives for investment in fixed assets and development". Perhaps it would be enough just to exempt those related to the untapped part of the tax credit that they have so far been able to transfer or reduce their future tax obligations in the next ten years. So, the law wouldn't make it any easier, it would take that unused part of this loan. Maybe it would be a better solution to this law. The question now arises – how will these measures affect future investors of domestic nature or foreign investors? That'll show time. Here I wrote down - tax discipline and several signs of questions. I think, Mr. Minister, you know that in our country, tax discipline is not at some level. As we have seen or read, some tax administration laws will be controlled and I hope the tax administration gets a more significant role, and with these moves it will return and respect the tax administration. As you know, 12 or 13 years ago, we had a system solution that could control our finances. It was the SDK system. I hope we can get some kind of system back into our financial practice, so we don't have so many problems, especially with tax collection. The SVM MPs will support several of these laws. Here we think of those laws that will improve our country's financial situation and that have a positive impact on the position especially of the agricultural population. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28577	Thank you. We are now interrupting work to begin the 8th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. According to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll be back at 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28579	I am opening a joint principle search on draft laws that are on the agenda and we are continuing discussions on authorised representatives. Who's picking up the word from the authorized representatives? The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected others to come forward and that's why I didn't pick up right away, but I won't take much time for a simple reason because we're talking about laws that follow budget laws. Since it is the following laws, it is difficult to talk about these laws in particular, not taking into account the budget. But since we have a budget debate, I'll just say a few things. I think these laws are being extorted, they're very restrictive in some things, and they have a mild social component. I must stress this, because there are many solutions in these laws for which, as a member of the Social Democratic Party, I can hardly and should raise my hand. Looking at what is to be achieved, looking at what is wanted and knowing what is the dubiosis in our budget, where the problems, where they are, are, I consider these laws to be the first step towards solving the problems we have to have in the next period. There's an emphasis here on a gray economy that has plenty of space in our country. That's more than 30%. That's a really high percentage, and that's where the IRS is talking about and her work. I must say, there are very big problems here. Whoever had contact with the tax administration, who was doing something there, saw that there was a lot of bureaucracy, that there was a lot of difficulty in achieving some rights. So I suggest that, in the next period, we pay a lot more attention to the tax administration, a lot more attention in terms of modernizing, that there are simply two things in this country, which are certain, one is death, and the other is that you have to pay taxes. Therefore, everything else is uncertain. Let's see if we can make a tax administration that'll be effective. I can't help but take into account the fact that when we introduced the fiscal registers, that it came to life, that it gave results, and that now after a while, we don't have those results that we had. When I talk about it, I'm talking about because there are a lot of internal reserves that we need to fill in to fill out that big budget hole we have. Of course, it may look a little bit at first, but a little by little means a longer-term solution, so in some mid-term getting out of the problems that we have inside this budget. Now I'm going to go back to a few questions that these laws solve. I'll come back because this budget, which we're talking about, where the dubiouss are really expressed... What's particularly important is that we have what's above the line, and now it's the first time that comes up and I'm talking about what's below the line. What's below the line, we have to tell the public clearly and openly. What I think and what I'm going to say when I talk about the budget is the fact that this time, this government is courageously, openly telling where it is, where the state finances are at this point. That the state is great, it's not. That it's hard, it's not. It's been admitted, but we have to look for a way out of the situation we're in. We're talking here, in these laws that are proposed as following laws, what we should do. First of all, pay taxes. As a Social Democratic Party, we believe that the burden of difficulty must be borne by all according to our property power. Therefore, one who has more must stand out more. I can't help but get the impression, if we have 114 billion for interest in the next 2014, and we're giving 35 billion for subsidies to agriculture, eight and a half for subsidies to the economy, the question is, who is, when and why is he taking loans that we now have to give 110 billion for interest? At the same time, missed policies are currently paid by citizens, paid in a way that has to be reduced by salaries, and those who have over 60,000, and we must say that these 60,000 are not some of the resources that Serbia can live with. What citizens will feel is the fact that salaries in the public sector and pensions will be limited by 0.5 and 1%, respectively, and in 2015, in 2016, these pensions will go only 0.5% in April and October. The pension system is indeed in crisis, not only within our country, but within our region, but also in Europe, because we are known as an old nation. The question arises – how is pension reform proposed? I must say very responsibly – the reform of the pension system has begun and it is already giving results. There is room to continue to look for some other ways of reform, and there is no magic wand that will suddenly reform the system, which will immediately produce results. This is only possible if retroactively or if you suddenly reduce wages and pensions by 30% to 40%, then you can live off the contributions made for pensions. That in this situation, and this government is socially responsible, we can't do that. So we need to step by step into reforms and in these steps we need to get results, that pensions are paid, that we have 12 regular pensions and that these pensions can be lived. We also support the attitudes that will be for state officials, however demagogue it seems, that at six months we go to three months of payoffs after we're out of office. However, we find ourselves in a situation that even small repairs will ultimately result greatly. One of the painful points that we Social Democrats find difficult to accept, and unfortunately, we have to swallow that bitter pill, that is, raising the VAT, that is, from 8% to 10%. Now it is quite clear that the wrong economic policies in the previous time, which have come to the collection right now, are simply being poured over to all layers of the population with that difference, that they will most sense those who have the least, because they, even these small sums, that are calculated between 350 and 450 dinars, mean a lot and will mean a lot in the next period. There was also a pay speech here, about how someone besides one salary has two, three salaries, two, three compensations, etc. As the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, we advocate to be a single salary, that there is no addition, but not demagogical, to say -- yes, our minister has 105,000 and works 14 hours or 16 hours. It's pure demagogy. No one can work for 105,000 14, 15 hours without asking for the maximum, and by the way, he's also a top expert and an expert on his field. Let's set things real and then on real things let's set things up the way they go and how they have to go. This is how we often fool ourselves with some demagogue or populist things, that we pay a little bit of the ministers, and even pay a little bit of the MPs, and on the other hand, we talk about some other things. I have to point out that's what's very important. Secondly, the Social Democratic Party stressed, and here we talked, and we very much welcome the fact that hotelers, however, as far as VAT is concerned, have come to the point of paying at a lower rate of 10%. This will mean that we will be able to develop this sector as we have continued to develop it. There was talk of pay grade and coefficients. I think we really need to introduce in this country that for equal work, equal jobs get paid like that. The possibility remains that only quality is especially rewarded by those coefficients. But there is one institute called collective agreements, where unions participate. We insist and demand that collective agreements continue to exist. Of course, order should be made in those areas. We have about five, six different bases and 800 of some coefficients, so it happens that if someone works in an agency, and we don't even know their number, they have a huge salary and someone who works on some very responsible and difficult jobs, like teachers, doctors, has a small salary. I just want to say a few more things. These measures, these laws, I believe are only an initial step in fixing our situation. They must take further steps that are seen in many areas anyway. No talking about taxing property, no talking about taxation when someone has five, six apartments and lives on rent, no talking about taxing some expensive products of cars, yachts, I don't know, and planes, etc. And there's no taxation, at least I don't see it or it's going to be, if someone's buying 400, 500 acres of state land and having enormous incomes, and for that, they don't pay the corresponding taxes. I think there's a way that the burden of the crisis is evenly distributed with that fact that whoever has more can pay more. The Social Democratic Party will support these laws. I must admit that these are difficult decisions, that we do it with bitterness, because we are against the measures that mean only linear taxation of people, and most often those who have the least, because they are most affected. We are doing this because of the future, because we hope that in some medium time we will get into a situation where we can work, earn, and, of course, do not get into a situation where our external debt is constantly increasing, that our interest is growing, and that in the end it turns out that we are setting a basic problem that we are giving 260 billion out of the pension budget, and no one is asking what we are paying for interest rate in 2014, or for all the public sector employees we are giving out of the 270 billion budget, and 110 billion we are giving to foreign lenders, which is the result of the failed economic policies of the time we lived in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28581	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28582	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this is your fiery baptism here in budget matters. It's a real opportunity to get answers to questions that we can't see from the bill. Of course, all these laws that we're having today's debate, and the budget, are essentially one thing. It's not easy to separate these discussions, but I'm going to try to ask you today what's on the agenda. Last year at this time, of course, you weren't here, but more or less everyone else did, we debated how realistic revenue was, whether what came here as a draft budget law is sustainable or not. A similar instrument was, the VAT rate was increased. Turns out that between what was projected at the end of last year, 2012 and what happened in 2013, there was an insurmountable difference, and then we went into budget rebalance. The first question that the ZZS parliamentary group is asking in this debate is that you tell us that you see according to the items of these 26 billion, if I'm not mistaken, the increase in VAT revenues. How do you see where this greater income will come from? What are your estimates, whether there will be a reduction in the traffic of computer equipment, or IT equipment, as modernly said now? What are your views of that whole market? It's precious to every citizen. It's about something that becomes a part of everyday life and more or less, if not every family and every household, then a large number and it's important about the transport of this area as an economic branch, and all of us as a user of this equipment, what do you see will happen with that? So there's two things. This is very serious, because at the end of the first quarter we'll see if you've had good bills or not, which will be a great sign of your skill that one hard job, the job of the finance minister, run in a good way. So what do you expect from these items of increased VAT, where how much more money will come in to get these more than 26 billion? How do you see these economic areas are going to move where the VAT rate rises? The other thing is profit tax law. That's what I asked you the other day when we saw each other, when you had consultations with the MPs' clubs. I'm also saying here publicly that we've had very correct conversations and contentious conversations with you. I think we're all out of that meeting with a more complete picture of what your idea is than we got into that meeting. You didn't convince us to vote for the budget, but we got more information. So 10 billion dinars should be more on the basis of the profit tax to be in the 2014 budget than in 2013. It is very important that you tell us what your vision is, which part of those 10 billion will be poured into the budget as an increase in total profits in the economy of Serbia, which is part of a change in the policy of all these loans, the tax so-called, with one serious procedure that you have entered, that you eliminate one part of the investment as a basis for reducing or completely exempting from paying the income tax. I know it's not an easy decision, and I'm sure you have very clear projections, but here, please share it with us. So how much do you expect to increase the total profit, and then on that basis we have increased income based on profit tax, that's important to us. And in what areas do you expect this to happen in Serbia compared to 2013? How do you estimate that investments in Serbia will happen when we change policy, since I assume you will get a majority for this law and these laws, when the tax credit policy changes? Looks like I'm gonna get something that's the central point of what I'm talking about today. Together, Serbia as its central political topic has self-government, in addition to solidarity, the country's rapid accession to the EU, and we are very concerned. We are talking about the law on the budgetary system, the way you set up your new policy, so you and the government, a policy that should dramatically limit the number of people who will be employed in the public sector in the next two years 2014 and 2015. I know the government has to do something and it's not controversial. I think it would be better if you'd opened up one broad debate and we'd seen each other as MPs' clubs before you'd finished all these laws. At the end of the line, we didn't even see these laws the moment we talked to you, we only had a draft budget law, but now there's no job done. My question is – what is the goal? Seven hundred and forty thousand were employed in the public sector. What is your goal and goal, Mr. Minister, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? How many public sector employees will be employed on 1 January 2015, how many public sector employees will be on 1 January 2016? What is your projected picture of this important, fundamental element of fiscal policy in general and economic policy? Now to get to the other side, how is the system set up? I think as far as local self-government is concerned, there's a very serious constitutional problem, but besides this, I'm not going to say anything. So, I think the Constitutional Court will have to deal with the government's serious right to restrict employment in local self-government. There's something I need to do. I want to open up a discussion about this thing. So, municipalities, cities and systems of local self-government, as written in the draft budget system law, I think they all fall under the category of useful public funds. No one will be able to hire anyone until they are approved by the government's competent body, as you wrote in the bill, which will again be decided by the motions of the resolution ministers. My question, Mr. Minister, has it been considered, have you dealt with a very different structure of employees by local self-government in Serbia? There are 170 municipalities and cities. The differences in the number of employees in municipal administrations in Serbia are, I think, going up to 1:4 compared to the number of employees per population. What's your policy? That's my question. Do you direct local self-government in any direction? Do you want to reward those cities and municipalities that have employees below a certain percentage relative to the number of inhabitants? So, are there 100,000 citizens in one city, so there's a big question of how many employees are in the administration, 100, 150, 200, 250, 500, 700? I think it's a very bad policy for all of you to have the same archaic. Because you don't point local authorities in any direction. In real life, it will happen that this government body, however it is conceived, will have one nightmare because it needs to deal with all of Serbia and that it approves every job in all of Serbia, whether it's a health home in Babusnica or a theater in Subotica or a clinic center here in Belgrade or your Ministry of Finance, all one thing. I don't know what that can look like in life. It'll be a terrible judgment. But that's a technical question and I don't want to debate it. You're taking on that responsibility. I'm asking what your policy is. What do you say to a local self-government that has a dramaticly small number of employees compared to the population? Did they make a mistake? Were they supposed to hire three times as many people to be in the same situation as those who didn't do housework? It's unsustainable, Mr. Minister. This kind of approach can't do any good. Rewarding good and giving clear direction to those who are not good, I think that's a good policy. There's no such thing here. You did the same thing in the budget law, and I'll only be there for a little while, because we'll talk about it these days. You've been reading to me what almost two billion dinars of reduced transfers to municipalities and cities mean. If I remember correctly on August 1st or 31st, it doesn't matter for this debate, in 2013 and you took and reduced linear subsidies 30% in cities and municipalities budgets. There is one problem, which is that it is formally or nominally called subsidies are not subsidies or are at least subsidies. Capital investments shall also be managed under the nomenclature of subsidies in cities and municipalities. Any street asphalting in any city or municipality in Serbia is a subsidy. You've cut everyone's 30% short. What kind of policy is that, Mr. Minister? Don't those who hired fewer people have the same cost for their administration. Those who do not subsidize their local and public enterprises, because they are bad and make up for some losses have more of these so-called. discretionary couples. It's the money run by politics. They can help agriculture, they can solve their infrastructure issues, they can solve their citizens' problems, they're in the same situation as those who don't care. Those who have a huge number of employees have almost no discretionary money. What's your policy? What is the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I don't understand, Mr. Minister, how do you want to create a better system? With solutions like this, it doesn't work. It's not possible. That's why we can't vote for this. To go back to what I've been saying months ago, open a debate, let's talk. You saw none of us are dangerous, none of us. We were well-intentioned when we spoke with you, I'm sure other colleagues were very polite, well-intentioned. We will like you, and it's my impression that you're a well-intentioned man, you're making a very good impression, but let's talk about things to make things better. If we don't talk, you can see how we get in the wrong way, and those bad solutions are then dramatic and difficult to remove. It's hard to get out of all this. These are my great fears. It is totally unacceptable for the ZZS parliamentary group to undermine the rights of local self-government like this. I am sure that when you enter a deeper reform of the tax system, when you start seriously dealing with finance and fiscal systems of local self-government, you will be interested in solutions some of the cities in Serbia are already applying, which is that local communities are left with a tax on property. We'll see how much more tax on property than it is today, how much more people are willing to pay if the money in the name of the property tax is collected and remains in their villages, if it stays in their city districts, in their neighborhoods. That's the way, Mr. Minister. If you build a government body to decide if she'll be a nurse in Kursumlia, there's nothing to do with that job. It's a done deal. It's only a matter of when you'll be informed that politics has failed. You're not the first one to think of that. In this country, they tried to do it back in the '90s and after that. You can't centralised to achieve a thing and I completely want to confess your good intentions -- that's not possible. Enter the decentralisation of the country, self-government, give people a chance to decide. People can't make a lot of decisions, and it's their interests to make more bad decisions than good decisions. It's not human nature. Mr Minister, I hope that some of the laws you have proposed will appear in this assembly in the near future, for which the MP group will be able to vote for Serbia together. Unfortunately for us, this time it won't be a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28583	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28584	Thank you. I'll just briefly answer these few direct questions you've asked. I'll comment on local self-government and funding, since you've talked about it the longest. As for the increase in VAT, we have projected at a gross amount of 28.4 billion VAT increases, with some of these basic good imputements that are at a lower rate are actually input components for some of the products that are then exported to what we have vomiting, so the net effect that is included in the budget is actually 21.4 billion or slightly above 0.5% of GDP. We believe, and we also charged it when we went with our estimates on macroeconomic assumptions, that we went pessimistic. What I'm saying is that we thought that there would be a substitution in buying these goods that are at a lower rate, that instead we would buy less of those that are at a higher rate, and we also charged that. But what I'm trying to say is that I think there's a lot of these goods and that retail will recognize it. We even heard the announcements about it, that there will actually not be an increase in prices, and that I hope that what we have included as an estimate will be underestimated from the revenue side of the budget, that is, what we are talking about as to the effect on consumers, that it will be less than it is. As for the price of equipment for "you" and even lower to the higher, that is the case in all EU countries. We had one longer period in which that rate was lower, which is justified because it was supposed to come to modernization. However, we are now comparing prices, and we have done this, we see that hardware prices are significantly higher in us than in countries in the region. It will only regulate the market, of course, but there is room for some of this effect to be absorbed by the sellers themselves “you” equipment. As for this second direct question about the Law on Profit Tax, the increase in 2014 is based on a modest increase in the economic activity that we have planned, which is again pessimistic and simple from inflation we have 10 billion dinars, which you have cited as an increase. This is not an effect of this law, i.e. an amendment to the Law on profit tax. The effect of this will be seen in 2015 and 2016, due to the method of payment, you know, of course, about the advance of commitments. Finally, as far as this budget system law is concerned, two things I want to separate. One is about this restriction of employment and the government's bodies and the other about funding local self-government. It's not in this law, it's in the budget. We'll talk more about it. As far as the Budgetary System Act is concerned, you know, we have since 2010, at the level, specifically the Ministry of Finance, control over the employment of people in local self-government as such, where the maximum number of people per local self-government is determined exactly as you mentioned, four employees per 1,000 inhabitants. I can tell you now from the register and based on reports that we regularly receive, that a huge number of municipalities have breached that limit and that we will have to address it and are already addressing it through administrative inspections, but that today is the case, which I don't think is a good solution, but I will return to that in a second, the Ministry of Finance approves every new employment in local self-government. I think we will define by the government regulation if and when the Budgetary System Act is adopted a way of how natural it is to leave room for those who retire, who stop working in different bodies. It's different for the state administration, for education, for health care, and that's how we'll deal with certain ministries in co-operation. Then we'll use the register that we have for the first time at the state level to establish a system of human resources management that won't last forever and shouldn't be at the central level in a situation where there's a crisis and the state's money spills out without control, and there's so few of them. We have to talk about it this way. That's the answer to that. As for funding local self-government, I am not in favour of centralisation, but I am also against the pausal decentralisation that took place several years ago when without the transfer of significant competencies the balance between the republican budget and the budget of local self-government. Our intention is not to get into what happened. It is our intention that in the first half of the following year, each before budgeting for 2015, we discuss in this House the Law on the Budgetary System in general, perhaps a whole new one to write, we must also move on to programming, to discuss the laws on the financing of local self-government, as well as to discuss the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which has not been the case so far. That's one set of things we're gonna talk about in the first half of next year. The second set of things that necessarily go parallel to that, which wasn't the case before, is to talk about how we're going to establish a tax system. Someone pointed out that we haven't addressed all the tax forms here, but then we'll decide who will be in charge of collecting which taxes and what transfers will then be determined. I hope I answered the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28585	Replica, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28586	Thanks for the answer. Again to go back to what I think is the essence, which is that in laws like this and the Budget Law, there has to be a visible policy. Politics is the direction the government believes certain systems should go. Of course I know there's a register, and then there was an extraordinary opportunity to tell who this provision applies to. Why would you, as Government through the bill, propose to Parliament that employment be prohibited for everyone? I guess who's sticking to the percentage and who's alone able to maintain their system, I mean cities and municipalities, why would you, as one of the Supreme Judges, even get involved in it? My objection is directed in that direction. Why did you put everything in the same basket, because in Serbia, all cities and municipalities are not the same and why you don't reward the good and you don't let the bad know that they have to be different with these measures if they are in accordance with the Constitution? That's my remark. It violates the principle of self-government and it's not a good thing. Each of the mayors of city councils, city parliaments, however you like, or municipal, who has worked hard all these years to have employees as long as it takes, in accordance with some standards, it's 4:1 simply not sustainable, I think it has to be reduced, it's very convenient at some point, to look at how many employees in the city administrations in Germany, Austria, Sweden, Portugal, Spain, and we'll see that it's not 4:1, but it's far below that. But why do those who are at the level of Austria and Switzerland and Sweden, what do you punish them for? That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28587	Time, Mr. Petrovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government, Mr Minister, we will briefly look back at these proposed measures, although we have already discussed a lot of things in the context of the talks that you have organised with representatives of the parliamentary groups, which is an extremely good practice, and I hope that it will continue, where we have learned a lot about what your intentions are for next year, but also what might be some of the legal proposals and measures for 2014 and 2015. This set of laws that you are proposing today, of course, is very difficult to discuss separately from the draft budget itself, but we will make some comments. According to us, I think what we told you earlier, of course, it's not your fault and, after all, the budget that will be in front of us is subliming the work of the previous governments and previous ministers and you've come more or less to the founding state, since you've come as minister in the reconstructed government. Of course, we won't blame you for a lot of things, but we think this was a great opportunity to maybe go into reform more comprehensively, especially in public sector reform. As you know, Serbia is a highly centralised and bureaucratised state, where, in every sense, from the level of public spending to that of public enterprises hiring a huge number of people, etc., and to a large extent, such a situation is suffocating the private sector and we have always mentioned that it is not the problem of the income side of the budget, but it is the cost side and we wanted to talk about it. The measures proposed by you are mainly tangled by the revenue side, in particular as regards the amendment of the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Tobacco, the Law on corporate income tax and the law restricting salaries and the number of employees in the public administration. The increase in taxes from 8% to 10%, of course, will mainly tang consumption and the most basic consumption among citizens. We can only assume what happens next year, but I'm not sure it'll give the effects you're planning on the budget. It can also lead to a rise in the grey economy, especially when we talk about it mainly concerns bread, milk, dairy products, sugar, fat, oil and things that are basic life supplies. The easiest thing to do is to tax the consumption that is otherwise low, in terms of domestic demand. I don't see that that'll lead to the results you'd like. We've already witnessed a raise in VAT. I think it has its limit and can't be done forever. When this government was elected, not the one in which you are now participating, but when the ruling majority was established, there was talk of departementisation, reform of the public sector, bringing in professionals, etc. and some reforms in depth, and I don't think that's what happened. We are turning again to tax the consumption of citizens, etc., where the spending party is not even thinking about reforming "Serbiagas", "The Railways", making a new airline which is a question of how it will work, whether it will ever achieve profits, roads, electricity, etc. Of course, you said that these are issues that require a long period, not only to be looked at, but to be corporateized, management mode, etc., but I don't think that we have time for analysis and for paying enormous figures to consulting houses, but that we should once have some things cut and I don't think that the main problem in that case is the gray economy, but some other colors I think are red, black, blue, etc. And these are the economies that should be the subject when talking about reducing the budget deficit. As for the concrete solutions in your proposals, I would especially refer to the tobacco law. I don't think there really was a need for a solution like this, where tobacco producers are placed in some uneven position compared to producers of other plant cultures, where it's literally even, as if you're growing marijuana, certainly in some countries, that the manufacturer can no longer buy seed unless there's a contract with one of the processors. I don't think that's going to give you any special result. I understand that the excise income has probably fallen and that cigarette consumption has fallen, which is still not good to happen, that we're a country where people are stimulated to smoke, to collect as much revenue as possible from excises. It's certainly no other case. After that, we are declared the country that has the worst health system in Europe, precisely because we do not have prevention. The tobacco law, I think, is part of that kind of wrong policy, and it shouldn't have put the burden of it all on people who do tobacco production at all right now. As for the law that regulates salaries in the public sector, pensions and employment restrictions, some of my colleagues have already talked about it, but I really don't see how an official, or an official in Belgrade, will be able to determine how many and where people should be employed, in some local self-government or even in some public enterprise. There are therefore boards of directors, therefore there are bodies to deal with, to bring systematicisations, and all of this is eventually seen in some balance sheet of success or state of the public enterprise. Public consumption really thinks it can be regulated in other ways. This will lead to additional red tape and centralization, and whenever it comes to such solutions, it turns out they're very bad. Of course there will be cases that some will get consent, some will not get consent and it will always be politically colored. As for the other draft laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax, I think some of the proposed solutions are even good, that tax credit cannot be realised for things that are not in the function of that legal person. As for the amendment of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act and the Budgetary System Act, where you're tanging future pension and salary growth, I also think we're forced to do so, but again - what is the comprehensive economic policy that you represent? If we're talking about reducing the deficit, of course, that's good. In my opinion, I also mentioned this in the talks we had -- can we at a time when we are facing recession, and Serbia has been in recession for many years, when we do not have economic growth, to also reduce the budget deficit in all ways by killing spending? Our current economic growth of the whole country depends on only two things - one model of Fiat's car and agriculture, whether it's going to rain or not. It's not an economy that can survive in the long run. If we're talking about some kind of economic growth that we should have as a developing country, 5%, 6%, 7% or 10% a year, that should be my goal. The deficit itself should be viewed, but public debt should also be seen against GDP. The current GDP growth is 0.1%, 2%. These are now projections for 2014. Whether or not they will be realised, I don't know, but complete public finances should be in function of economic growth, not in the function of foreign creditors. Of course, foreign creditors will always tell us -- reduce the deficit. They have two or three ducks watching and that's all they care about. When we have 25% or 30% unemployment, when we don't have any economic growth, I also don't see how GDP is going to grow, if we're just focused on these two things, with the budget you've proposed again, it's not a topic, it's not a developmental one, it's a crisis. Whether it's going to change in 2015 or 2016, I don't know. All in all, some of the legal solutions, like I said, aren't bad. I think it's really a dry drain drain, as to where public spending can be handled, but I'd really like to hear when public sector reform will be approached, when will guarantees stop being issued to public enterprises, and when will they stop subsidising the fallen giants? As for restructuring, i.e. enterprises that are in restructuring and privatisation, we also cannot hear from Minister Radulovic when it will finally be over? Of course, if we're trying to reduce public spending, we also have a series of ideas about where budget revenues could be replaced. Let's say, raising a mining rent, given that Serbia probably has the lowest mining rent in the world, where the famous investor who bought NIS pays 3%, where in that same Russia pays far more, and we repeatedly pointed out that, but we can't get an answer to the question -- does anyone intend to deal with it? Also, progressive income tax. We're the only country with a regressive tax rate. The less you earn, the more you earn, the lower the rate. Also, taxation of corporate ownership, an increase in profit tax in the financial sector, etc. It's just some of the ideas that we're going to present specifically to you, but surely there are ways to achieve additional revenue for the budget. All in all, for some of these laws we might vote. We've given a few amendments, so we'll see if they adopt. If you are able, at least answer a few of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28589	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28590	I'm going to answer these few questions very briefly. I think it's a success that we, we had those conferences with the Fiscal Council and the Fiscal Council recognized it, just by talking about these laws and talking about the budget, we're translating the discussion into what is necessary in order to actually make it happen. What's necessary? It is necessary, of course, to reform the public sector, which we talked about, regarding the register, the pay grade and everything else, I will not repeat. Of course, it is essential that we complete the restructuring of these companies that are in that group of 153 companies. It is crucial that we do not allow ourselves another "Employment Bank of Belgrade", Agrobank or Vojvodina Development Bank". It's on this expense side, which you mentioned. On the receiving side, we are a key revenue party and we need to return tax collection to where it should be and take very concrete steps in the tax administration, with modernisation that has already been in progress for some time, by introducing an electronic submission of a single application after deduction and some other changes in this Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. As for alternative sources of income, we also considered alternative sources of income. There are good reasons for possibilities and for justification why some of them have not been decided. You are well aware that the fiscal strategy also mentions a potential additional tax on the financial sector. Looking at this situation that isn't great right now, we've seen that maybe it's not at this point in time for the most correct measure. After all, this thing about the tobacco bill, which you asked the question, that was the case before. That's actually the case since we eradicated illegal trade in the beginning of 2000. What we've just done is we've defined more precisely how a legal flow of tobacco from the manufacturer to in this case factory is actually going. On the other hand, we've increased the penalties, so that there's actually a reason why people wouldn't be engaged in illegal trade, because so far it's been worth it and despite the law. That's what this is about, and the bottom line is that the discourse is being transferred and that what you said now needs to happen, to the next developmental one, because this one is the crisis budget, because we are in crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28591	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28592	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, I will certainly do my best, if at all possible, to adhere only to those draft laws that are in this united debate today. However, there are 11 of them, and we didn't have enough time to get to know him, or to read them in detail, and even less to analyze them in detail in order to be able to endure a good number of amendments for all of them. Of course, such advances have been found in the congregation procedure and in such a way, we are rapidly discussing them today, which, of course, is not a public debate. There have been consultations with MPs' groups, but I think there is another public debate on these proposals, since they are only being characterised by what we will discuss next week when the budget is under discussion, in which the MPs could give their opinion on these proposed laws that we are discussing today. Clearly, these changes and additions were necessary in some ways. I'm saying again, they're conditioned by the budget, but I'm worried about one thing. Just because 11 draft laws have been amended and amended on the shortcut, it seems to me that changes and additions to the same laws that we are discussing today will again occur in some due course of time. It is clear, of course, that they were necessary, that I have just mentioned, for the reason that next week the MPs will declare themselves and state their position on the budget. But at the end of the day, we didn't have any basic minimum time to get to know each other with 11 draft laws, so today we're talking about a united point that counts 11 of the bill. Of course, I'll try to look back at at least some of these bill proposals and try to separate them from the full budget debate, which seems impossible at this point. Today, we have today, as I have already stated, 11 draft laws that are united by this joint debate, and I will look only at some of them, trying not to repeat everything that my colleagues have already stated. What is absolutely common for all 11 of these draft laws on amendments and additions to the law, to be absolutely accurate, is that in the reasons for their adoption and in fact their justification is absolutely in each of them, it appears to be all in order to reduce the budget deficit and enable the functioning of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Truth be told, I don't mind. I know it's not your fault and I know what you inherited, and you had something to inherit, especially when we're talking about the area of finance. When you say that certain draft laws are passed so that they continue to comply with the system of taxation of spending of the Republic of Serbia as is represented by EU standards, I don't think you can classify all the laws under such a category, and especially the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the return of seized property and compensation. In fact, this law was passed by the previous government and it is good that it was passed. She brought it in 2011. I don't know if you know how many requests are filed at this point for the return of the seized property and the compensation. I don't know if you know when he's dating this period and how long the owners have been struggling to recover that property. It's perfectly understandable to me that you want to make savings and that's something completely logical. That's where it went. I'm going to have to state something you're stating in the reasons for law-making. In view of the very difficult financial situation in the Republic of Serbia and the budget deficit, it is necessary in a different way to regulate the payment of the compensation fee for which, unless a member of the 37th law is changed, around 20m euros should be allocated in 2014. Clearly, the figure of 20m euros is extremely large. It is clear that it is not in line with those proposed austerity measures that, all of us here and I support, but it seems to me that, when it comes to this kind of cruel law in some future period, we have to discuss their changes and additions again, because this is some question that can no longer wait, and this kind of partial changes just in order to emulate what will come next week and to vote the budget, I think it is in the extreme line of unsertainable. Some of the bill I will refer to is the draft law on amendments and additions of the Law to additional value. Only three members have been amended in this bill, and in most of the proposed laws, the amendments are minimal, but they will affect a huge number of citizens of our country with their desired goals. A change has been made here that suggests that a special VAT rate rises from 8% to 10%. Of course, any increase in VAT is one of the most unpopular measures and the fact is that it will cover the widest circle of faces. The most unfavourable will affect those who have the least income. It's not a good idea, the citizens of this country know very well. Here I'm just going to quote point 1 of Article 23(2) that this increase is related to. It is said that at a special rate of 8% VAT, i.e. the new 10% tax on goods and services or imports of goods: bread and other bakery products, milk and dairy products, flour, sugar, edible oils from sunflower, corn, oil rapes, soybeans, olives and edible fats of animal, vegetable and honey. Of course, all of this needs to be added to drug trafficking. You should mention the heat. This list includes a wide range of both goods and services, but from these few items that I have cited, I think it is clear that this is actually about something that is necessary for everyday life. It is clear that the weak purchasing power of citizens will weaken further. I repeat, it's not your fault. You came at a time like this when little can be destroyed. Of course, the change that applies to a smaller circle of people but certainly not to a meaningless change is the exclusion of personal computers and components of which are made up of personal computers precisely from the list of taxation at a special rate and the new taxation of this computer equipment at one general rate of 20%. As I said, it is certain that these are unpopular measures, but these unpopular measures have resorted, if you look at some comparative-legal analysis and some countries in the environment and they went towards increasing the VAT rate. But since you said yourself you had no choice, throw out at least this "some choice", since you had no choice at all, then my exposure should serve the citizens to know that the prices of basic life supplies have been increasing since 1 January 2014, when the provisions of a bill are just beginning to apply. As regards changes and additions to the budgetary system, this certainly draws the most attention to the ban on public sector employment by the end of 2015, with the exception that employment is possible only if necessary and the bodies of the Government agree with it, and on a proposal from the competent ministry, that is, the second competent authority, with the previous opinion of the ministry. The proposal is clearly intended, i.e. you as finance minister to reduce the number of public sector employees you see from the provision that the number of persons employed is reduced to 10% of the total number of employees. These are planned layoffs of workers, all of which result in an increase in unemployment. The very procedure of employment, and in the situation where it is necessary, in my opinion, is quite complicated, is essentially unarranged, because it simply remained that the act of the Government has made the procedure for obtaining the above-mentioned consent faster. I believe that a much better solution would also be a more comprehensive solution for public funding users in their frameworks to educate employment commissions. Of course, I will also refer to the proposal for a law on the reduction of income after the public sector. This is unlike the others, this is one new law, so it's not about amendments and additions to some law. During the debate, in fact, you explained this Bill proposal, and on the Finance Committee, you explained that in Serbia there is what some of my colleagues have already mentioned, the register of how many employees there are in the public sector and what their salaries are. That's when we're familiar with the fact that there are 900 coefficients for payouts. In fact, the aim of the promoter is to fully introduce the order, in fact, into the distribution of income, because it happens that some people who do the same job in two different places are not paid the same, but that discrimination is done, that is, that some people have higher incomes, others have lower incomes, and at the same workplace based on the same work. Furthermore, compensations received by employees who work at the MUP were also mentioned. I agree that for the same job, people should be paid the same. However, this same job description often does not mean the same job for the one doing it. So the abovementioned Ministry of Interior has more people doing the same job on paper, and in reality one works harder than the other and it is necessary to reward them further. The interior ministry, a little later, because I think it's one topic that's been getting a lot of public attention lately, and we see what's going on in the Serbian police, if it can be called in general. I would like to say here, of course, that at least on the subject of this bill, I agree that it is necessary to introduce some harmonisation in order for people doing the same job to be paid as well. Of course, in this place, I also have to mention something that got absolutely all the parliamentary groups, which is actually done by the doctor's and pharmacist's union of Serbia, who is expressing its dissatisfaction with the announced salary tax in the public sector, i.e. health care. It seems to me that one of my predecessors has just mentioned health care, in which it is more than catastrophic, and the DHSS can talk for hours and we voted in this assembly absolutely against every law that has been passed in the field of health. I guess in the next period, we'll do it too. What I have to read, and what the signator of unions, doctors and pharmacists wrote is the following fact – reduction, instead of negotiating an increase, unfortunately, is what the situation in the country is, and such insufficient salaries, wage cuts are the most professional, the most educated and most experienced doctors, and that is the fact that doctors who have been social peace keepers in this country for years and thanks to which the health system is maintained and that is the fact, because only thanks to doctors the health system and maintains. What's not a matter of judgment is a matter of personal attitude or relationship to the problem, these are the facts that stand. Doctors, i.e. health care, pay not from the Serbian budget, but from the Republican Health Insurance Fund. Health is not a budgetary user, and "the savings on our salaries would be savings in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, because they are funds of the Fund, not budget funds". Of course, we've criticised a bunch of times just the business of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. In the end, let me say again somehow I've tried at least somewhat to take some of these bills apart from the budget, as some of my fellow predecessors have said, that's almost impossible. The budget itself next week, when we discuss it. Of course, we can discuss the budget here. Some give themselves the right to discuss these 11 points of the agenda, in fact, have already started the debate on the budget, but all of these measures, of course, again, mention that these proposals, mostly most of the amendments and additions of the law, have only one proposed new law, only done the same thing already foreseen in the 2014 budget. My biggest concern is that this was a shortcut, and that we should be changed and complemented by the same laws that we are discussing today, they're just expecting us in some reasonable period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28593	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28594	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe you will understand me, Mr. Krstic, if I start our dialogue today by asking which one I will answer immediately. What can the average citizen of Serbia conclude by looking at the current course of the debate? What does he think about the seriousness of the subject we're talking about, the importance of the measures you're proposing here, the polemics we're entering? Do we have a picture of our parliament and the atmosphere in which we are talking, of the economic policy that our country needs to lead? Not about the budget, but about the economic policy, or the measures that you and the government promoted two months ago. Is this atmosphere talking about the seriousness of the situation, our willingness to go along with these challenges to meet or about impotence, irresponsibility, populism, demagogy, hypocrisy? I don't address it personally to you at all, but first of all to those who are leading the country today and those who, when I talk about economic policy, are responsible for the economic course on which the country has been back for years. All of what you're actually here today, I can't say you're defending, because unfortunately we've been brought into a position from which we can't even defend ourselves anymore. Everything you're trying to explain, actually a monologue, because the other side you're talking to doesn't actually exist. What is what our society needs? Solid tax, raised VAT rate from 8% to 10%, amended and added several laws? Of course not. Our society first needs an answer to the question why our Serbia today is what it is, and immediately after that response, the visions, the plan, the order of moves that will bring our potentials, rights and obligations into line with needs. Before we specifically discuss these extorted measures, I first want to tell you what is what you are alone and what I have recorded as crucial, pointed out in my speech at the beginning of the debate. You said we needed to respect reality, to face it. Your government's relationship to the subject that we're talking about today is a clear message from the country's leader that they're staying on the same course, that they're in the same shoes and with their heads in the same holes, in the sand that they've all been in before them for the last few years. What is what any responsible politician can tell you today in Serbia, there are not many. I'll dare try to be as specific as possible, with the ambition that people who listen to us now, in what we say and do, don't see the malice, the desire to roll over, empty their pockets if there's anything else in them. So, to take away what they think they're entitled to, it doesn't exist anymore, but above all, our need to face this real world, and then we see how we're going to make it better, because the way we live, by running away from it, we can just disappear. It's a responsibility to tell society the truth. Up to you, for the last five years, in a less or more unchanged atmosphere, we with the finance ministers of the Serbian governments have started every debate on issues, why are you lying to us? Why are you unrealistically representing the country's incomes and why you're hiding expenses, why can't we get an answer to the simple question, how in the proposal of the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia alone, the deficit is so small, and in any other place where it is analysed, whether it's talking about the Fiscal Council or about that evil of the IMF, how often this institution in Serbia is experiencing, as your Prime Minister also described, why is it always much bigger there? First, honestly, thank you for saving us this waste of time and this kind of inconvenience, which is at least honestly telling us what our budget deficit is next year, but that's the topic for the second debate, not for this one. On these issues, we cannot recognize this reality, because we cannot talk about the real world, if we now expose to society and parliament the error invoices, and there is not enough power to deal with the cause of the problem that we are talking about. What is our economic policy relying on today, Mr. Baptizer? Where's her hold-up points? In changes and additions to these laws? You yourself know it's necessary to wash the hole, while on the other side, it's even bigger. How can someone who is responsible for his country, therefore, say that you are yelling at the back of this people, who has been used to, since he's been standing on his feet, that thanks to the politicians who run them, they live by selling their future, and how can we explain to this society that it has come to an end? In Serbia alone, no one was interested in what would happen to the Fiscal Cliff in America? We live in parallel reality. Today, no one in the country sees this debate as a failure of those pompous and unnecessary political concepts that turned Serbia's new economic policy. We wanted to discuss this issue after political talks, not after talking to you, because you are not a politician. Physics is inexorable, and these laws have been falsified by physics. If we want to pay off pensions that pensioners can't normally live on, salaries that can't be combined with the month, if we want to repay loans that aren't enough for us to live on, then we need to apply the measures that you're proposing -- solidar tax, higher VAT, changes and additions to existing laws. How are we going to create a normal environment? Where is the Minister of Economy, where are those involved in social policy in government, where is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Energy, where is the Prime Minister? Can we talk about the government register without talking about something that's much more important, and that's probably some economy where there's a surplus of value that this country is about to spend? If we only have these laws before us, then I have to tell you that in 2014 we have no right to expect anything but a free fall in which all previous years have passed. Let's start from the beginning. It is true that Serbia is an overindebted country. Why is that? That debt wasn't created by you alone. That uncontrollable spiral has its foothold in a time that remains long after us. You mentioned the crisis in 2008 and then we were lonely, as we are now in this debate. We didn't think then that it was the essence of the LDP policy to explain to Serbian society who it was meant to be against. They're doing it better than all of us other parties in Serbia. Both then and today, we have also proposed an agreement with the plan we have called – an agreement for the future, went to the Prime Minister and put before him, for example, pension reform, public enterprise restructuring programmes, put on a programme of additional taxation to those who have achieved an extra monopoly position in Serbia, change of mine rent policy through an analysis of royality in all countries in the environment, proposed the acceleration of labour market, the completion of privatisation, the change of labour legislation. Instead, populistism and demagogy, with 29% of the public debt, have they reached 64% of today's GDP. It's not just your problem. You can be the finance minister and you don't have to be. There's a finance minister sitting here. He's deprived of the inconvenience you're exposed to right now. We talked to him like this about budget rebalancing and he mostly agreed with us, but he can't go on like this. That's why we won't agree to uphold these laws. This is not an expression of our revolt against you, because you are the government, and we are the opposition, but there is no other way to draw attention to those who lead the country today to sin just as their predecessors did, where, unlike Cvetkovic and the Government of DS, who could only listen to us, you have their example. I guess it's a lesson enough for everyone to end the adventure they live in from today to tomorrow. We are here in parliament, only the second position of our party, seeking pension reform in Serbia, and we have suggested that pensions be reduced by 1% for each year of early retirement. Today, we are talking about a pension reduction of five, six or seven percent per year of work experience if it goes unwarranted. It's not an expression of your whim or anything, it's an emergency. You know how when you run a failed Kosovo policy, an irresponsible Kosovo policy, ignore that reality, then at the end of the day, the price remains somewhere in Jarinj and Brnjak and is invoiced by the NGO of the Serb municipalities. When the wrong economic policy is being run for years, then it comes to those who work, and those who don't work, and those who are half their lives retired, and those like people from my generation who won't welcome a state pension, and doctors, and party officials who entered the state sector for echelons, they arrive to everyone. So this is an opportunity for us from the LDP to first point to the causes of the problem, and then we try to agree with everyone in whom there is political understanding about what needs to be done. If we talk about the debts that our country has, and you mentioned them, can we reach an agreement on the elemental order of future borrowing, and stop assigning each other Nobel and instead see where we can find 525m euros, how much we need to give in the next year for serving part of the interest and the principal. Is that right? In 2012, the DS government had to think about 320 or 350. I think it's 350. In 2015 it will be 570. Let's see where we can find the new 630m euros to cover the debts of "Srbiagas", "The Railway", the Deposit Insurance Agency? Because these are all the points we keep defending, and those who spend money on such projects don't believe in the purpose of what they're doing. It's not just your personal problem. If our social product is as big as it is, the burden we have is growing year by year. What is the basis for the confidence of the first Deputy Prime Minister, who is your political mentor, that next year will be better? It may be better in a party sense for individual parties, but there is a situation where we are not just politicians. In economic terms, it will not be worse, as the recession in the EU is predicted, our most significant external partner, with a slight growth in the German economy. On the other hand, there is a great Russia. But I believe that no one after a statement from the Russian ambassador last week has a dilemma about the great Russia's readiness to patch up our debts and allow us to live on it. So again we have to go back to the basic question – how are we going to organise our economy? Are we going to reform the labour market? Whether we will have a new Labour Act, which will be reached through the agreement of employers and workers, with the state ready to move to the place where the state must be and where it was from 2001 to 2004. That's when I was negotiating with the unions, and there were 100,000 workers in front of parliament. Today's president of the Union of Independent Unions then held negotiations on the other side of the table. After 10 or 12 hours, in which everyone knew why he was sitting at that table, we went out with a deal on a whole series of issues and the difference about a collective contract. But the Labour Act was not an isolated measure, but the Labour Act followed a whole series of laws that we passed and our economy was in motion. Today we have an economy minister who needs to come up with excess values that you will then spend as a finance minister, who needs to reform the public sector, and has reached ID cards; to restructure public enterprises or those enterprises that have failed, as social and of particular importance, and there is no company that has already asked for his resignation. He insists on the Labour Act, and has lost unions as partners in the work on the law. His position is very difficult. Maybe it would have been easier if he had the government's support in the business that he was going to do. He doesn't have that support. That's obvious. It would not be good for someone to conclude from your loneliness that you have lost your support, as these are the most important issues in a society that can be discussed. The economy is ruthless. Everything else suffers from makeup, but the economy is a crystal clear mirror. The image we have before us is a collection of ignorance and arrogance and pride and political nonsense. In the end – and unfavourable weather conditions. You quoted correctly, and I'm glad, it was said by one of the leaders of Serbia in 2008, that the crisis is our development chance. And then we were looking for what we're looking for today, for example, reforming pension policy, so they made us a bigger enemy of pensioners than anyone who's ever walked this country. The whole world did it on time, America, the EU, Montenegro in 2008, Bosnia, Croatia, Macedonia. When we want to make fun of Montenegro, we say they sleep till noon. As long as Serbia sleeps, if Montenegro reformed its pension policy five years ago, and we still cannot talk about it openly? This way we won't get far. I think you should be supported on some personal matter. You're young enough, and when you take the wrong steps, you'll have time to learn something about it. Others don't have that time. I think you have one good quality, which is, I wouldn't say it's Parliament's respect, it's some personal dignity. You can't lie to yourself. What we see in front of us is worrying, but it's not indecisive. The only thing worse than the deficit, the missing in the register, the problems we have ahead of us, is the desire to run away from all of this easily made promises. (President: Time. I'll be done in 30 seconds. As for the solidarity tax, we have a problem with this idea because there is no difference between civil servants and some public services. It's not the same thing when a party delegates its power to a public enterprise and you tax that man who comes there to the same extent as a doctor or professor, or a judge, or a policeman who sacrifices his life for our safety. Secondly, these platinum classes never left any order behind and it is the source of all kinds of corruption and abuse. I don't think it's a good way to go, because it's not in the mentality of this society. It does not view it as the introduction of order, but as an opportunity for abuse. We will discuss the budget more, but it would be good for this debate to be extended, because it takes credibility and the ability of all who deal with politics in Serbia to agree on what is ahead of us. You won't get anywhere alone if you think you're going on that trip alone. On the other hand, if you don't let us share responsibility, that job won't be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28595	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28596	Thank you. I'll be brief. You haven't talked much about the laws, but I just want to say that this government is the first government that has had the courage to face the situation as it is, to invite some people who aren't, to say the least, political deputies. I think that's exactly why we have this situation to talk about in a slightly more constructive way than before. I'm not going into the whole state policy, to debate now. I don't think that's the subject and it's not on the agenda today. But what I'm saying is that when there's a topic, and that's certainly a budget debate, there's going to be a prime minister and other ministers who can talk about it, so there's going to be an opportunity to go through all the individual points in a way that's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28597	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28598	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable ministers, firstly I want to say that I absolutely understand the position you are in, because I have seen the difficult situation of Serbia's budget, and especially given that until three months ago you have not even lived in Serbia, because you were abroad, studying, and then working, I have no intention of criticising you tonight, because it takes time to live in Serbia, so that you can see the total problems that are how to solve. All this stuff I'm saying tonight, I'm asking you to take it as your best-intentioned advice, not criticism. Someone said you couldn't get out of this alone. I can confirm that to you. The government can't go out on its own. I have to say that ever since the global economic crisis broke out, it has been pretty much wandering not only in Serbia, but also in European countries looking for a way out of the crisis. I can tell you that these laws that you have proposed today are not the answer to the crisis and that they will not solve anything. They buy even extremely little time. That at least they're buying a year, two days, they don't even buy that. Maybe they've been buying for a few months. Where's the mistake? I can say after five years of the crisis, the concept of economics is completely wrong. The measures of non-selective savings are suffocating consumption and pushing the country into an increasingly difficult situation. There are two schools, one that advocates reducing the budget deficit and public debt by saving measures, increasing taxes, reducing the spending of pensioners and citizens. I could agree that he can do that if that really happens. But if you look at it, all the stabilisation programs after the global crisis, from 2008 to today, have failed. They all went in the same direction and they all made the same mistake. The tax hike was due to fill the budget on short notice, and it actually choked production, so the base that is taxing was getting smaller and smaller. The less people spend, the less those who produce have no one to sell this stuff, especially domestic small and medium-sized enterprises. So if you look at how GDP was moving, it dropped 3.5% in 2009, so it slightly rose and fell again in 2012, so this year we are growing 2.4% again, and next year you yourself predicted a growth of only 1%, twice as low as this year. I tell you -- it's going to be zero, because it's going to be further reduced by these tax laws of consumption. The solution is to go in the opposite direction, encourage new investments. I'm asking you to withdraw the law amending the Tax on Profits Act, because I don't know who advised you. You have abolished Article 48, which gives entrepreneurs the possibility that if they invest, buy new equipment, expand the production and employment of people, that this is not denied them from the base of profit tax more after your changes. You're that tax incentive, so-called. The general tax incentives in the Profit Tax Act are deleted. It's a mistake. You will not harm large companies, but you will severely damage the huge number of small and medium-sized enterprises, which there are 200 thousand in our country, which employ millions of people. I spoke to such entrepreneurs yesterday at Uzic. They say that. You need to find some time to visit these businessmen. I know you're the finance minister and you say, "We have a minister of business." I'll talk about it in particular. But the mistake is, you won't get anything on the income side significantly, and you're going to lose tens of thousands of jobs, because people are going to have to fire the workers. By now they had some motive to invest in buying some tools or equipment, because they knew they would be exempt from that part of the profit tax. Return that article 48, you don't have to delete it. We have submitted such an amendment. Personally, I don't think you've studied this seriously or your associates have informed you of this. What's also wrong with tax laws is that you consciously go further down the spending of the population and that's the wrong direction. Lifting VAT on food, on bread, milk, sugar, drugs, of course, will not reduce the consumption of these products. People have to eat bread, meat, who can, milk, but they'll give up buying some other goods. It's gonna be a waste of time. Such tax policy does not contribute to God's growth in income, which has been shown in these five years, but surely goes in the recession direction, asphyxiating production. My proposal is – think about it, you might appreciate this opinion after seven months, but it will be more expensive then. Change course, give up these production-suffering measures and try to give incentives for investment. Look at this year, it's your best proof, Serbia has a slight economic growth. Remember we predicted it would be 2%. It's gonna be bigger, something a little bigger. Here, in ten months, it's estimated to be 2.4%, but it's here somewhere, as we predicted. If you look at the sources of growth, first of all the automotive industry, it did not create itself, it was not created by fixing the environment, but rather by giving serious investment incentives to companies from the automotive industry. So "Fiat" came to ruin the flag, and another 150 companies opened the factory components. Such a policy does not need to be continued, but needs to be intensified. Another source of growth is your agriculture. I don't want to talk about it today, but you've cut the agricultural budget. That's what we'll talk about when there's a budget debate. That's wrong. What's not good, and it's not up to you, and that's, as far as we're concerned, the URS, very alarming. The National Bank of Serbia has no confidence in your fiscal policy. Why do I say that? Because the current inflation is at a record low due to reduced consumption, and the Central Bank still holds the reference interest to 10%, which means it does not believe that you will succeed, otherwise it would lower the drastically interest rate. Why is the Central Bank's interest 10% and how do you expect businessmen and citizens to get cheap loans and cheap money if the Central Bank holds a policy of expensive money? I don't think anyone's following in Central Bank what's going on in their life. While inflation was 10% or 8% it made sense for the reference interest to be at a level slightly above the inflation rate, and now, if they announced that the annual inflation rate was 2.5% in October, and the central banks keep at 10%, it is irresponsible to this situation, because businesses need money cheaper. The banks will never lower their interest rate if the Central Bank holds 10%. Who gets that? Well, they only get those banks that invest money in the Central Bank's paperwork, and that's what makes it an activity. The money's pumping out of the banking system. Instead of going to the citizens, to pump consumption towards the economy, to invest, it goes into state records. It's the wrong policy. Don't believe me. See what the European Central Bank is doing today, and what are the Federal Reserves doing? You mentioned Europe, you mentioned international experiences. I know we can't fully use their experience, but we can use the principle. Federal reserves today pump up every month in the American economy 85 billion dollars. They print money. I know we can't and we shouldn't. Plus they keep interest rates on zero maltenes and the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve. So the principle is cheap money policy, stimulating consumption instead of non-selective savings policies. We're recommended completely reverse. Why are they recommending this? Because there's not that courage you're talking about. I'm not saying you're not brave, but you're not alone in government. There's more resources in the government. There's no courage to attack the biggest budget item on the loose end, and that's interest on loans. You yourself know that this item was 14 billion dinars in 2008, and now it's 114 billion dinars, that this year 90 and something was, the next 114, and it's going to be 135 billion in the next year. You're free of VAT on food, free of pay for doctors when they're all out of interest. Then why don't you pay off the early loans? If you're as brave as you say, tell the people in the government - we'll go free. I don't know if you know it, it's a graphite that comes up when someone paints a fresh white paint house, and someone comes to it and writes it in huge letters. I can tell that to the government you're sitting in - paint for nothing. What's worse, is it going to make sense to sacrifice that you're asking the doctor, the professor, the judges you want to cut your salary to? It won't make any sense. It's a vain sacrifice. Why is she a vain victim? Because everything you collect from their salaries eats rising interest expenses, and these dubiosiss are not created by borrowing only on the foreign market, but, Cedomir Jovanovic told you, the dubiosis is "Srbigas", "Galenike" from that period, which is covered by taking expensive loans here in Serbia from banks on interest, which are 6-7% per year. You can't swim out of it in one year, but in the next 100 years Serbia can't swim. I'm not talking to you, I'm speaking generally with good intentions. So, did you ask yourself, and are you even aware of the last time the salaries were raised to doctors, teachers, nurses? I don't know if you know when was the last real salary growth? Seven years ago, 2006. You were at the studio at the time. That was the last time a doctor or teacher in Serbia got a real salary increase. After that, it kept going downhill, seven years in a row, sometimes more, sometimes less. What's the message then, for example, to doctors? I can't believe you're standing up for a flattener. You take everyone's salary off linearly, whether the doctor has a patient and dies there at that hospital at work, saves lives or someone who doesn't have a job at all. It's not a good message. I'm sure you share that opinion with me. It's not a good message to go with the policy of a regular. You're because you don't have the time, that you couldn't understand the complete situation in Serbia, you're going along a line of less resistance, all linearly to cut. Now I'm going to tell you something that no one will hear. In order to succeed in limiting wages and pensions that the IMF advocates and supports the Fiscal Council, there is no courage to go into early repayment of the most expensive loans, wages and pensions should theoretically, I say mathematically, to lower it by 30% to 40%. You know that. That's what I calculated with my associates, that's what you calculated, but it didn't occur to me to suggest such a thing, as well as to you, because you know that wage cuts and pensions are 30% to 40%, the first politically inconclusive, socially unsustainable and economically counterproductive. Then do you think he's a surrogate of that policy, and that's a little bit of pay and pension you're doing for the next 10 years, a solution? Well, it's not, because with that policy, the IMF will always knock on your door after six months and say, "It's not enough," you're short another 300m euros in savings. You didn't have to wait six months, the fiscal council told you that after 15 days. As you announced your budget and your fiscal council programme said -- that's a good direction, but another 300m euros are missing. Where are you going to find that? Are you going to do that in a few months to get paid and pension cuts? That's not the answer. You will always be asked by advocates of non-selective savings policy yet more. There's no end to belt tightening. The question is, what are we doing here in the Assembly, what are the MPs doing, what is the government doing, one, the other, the third, the tenth? Does it make sense to participate in public work if the message is for teachers, doctors that by the end of the working century they will have a lower and lower salary or that pensioners will not see an increase in pensions for the rest of their lives and be happy to have money to pay for it? It's not the purpose of life. That at least the goal of doing all this is to lower the budget deficits of the public debt, but to move for free. If the deficit is going to be 7.1%, the largest in Serbia's history, most of it this year and bigger than the previous ones there, then what are you cutting people's wages for? What difference does it make if it's going to be 0.1% or 0.2% higher? I'm sure you're going to have an even worse situation next year. Remember, 2.4% of Serbia's economic growth will not be seen, only it will be able to dream if such a policy continues. This is my call to the URS not only to you, but first of all to your colleagues in the government to consider a complete change in economic course. I don't want to get into it at all if that's what I should have done when. If other countries have already begun to change that policy, so should we. There's another problem here. You have complete dysharmony within the same government between you and the Minister of Economy. You hit the wedge, he hit the board or the other way around, whatever you want. For two months, your colleague was distracting the entire people, burning down entrepreneurs that by one-third, by 30%, he would reduce the burdens on labour, or taxes, and the contribution to wages. I don't know if you calculated it to someone else, to make it another two billion euros in the budget, so he finally gave up. Why don't you tell the MPs whether it's true that your colleague, because it's very important who you work with in the government, suggested that as a complementary measure, electricity tax is introduced, that the profit tax is increased to 40%, to introduce gas excise duty, three times to increase the tax on citizens' property? That's what he suggested, but fortunately, you disobeyed him. I don't know how you're going to keep working when he spends 20 billion on stupidity. He's throwing money away, not some ransom, from the claims of former company workers in restructuring, and you're struggling here to scrape the budget and you can't make it. What I want at the end, or at the end of the day, I think the government should change the course completely in which it goes. To go to aggressive investment-stimulating, to go to tax incentives for production and employment, and to solve the deficit budget and problem through deleveraging. Two and a half billion euros should be paid off prematurely to make it easier for us to breathe. Without it, paint free.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28599	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28600	I'm just going to answer, since we haven't talked a lot about laws specifically, to these few findings. It's true that time doesn't travel, you're right, but it's also true that there's plenty of time that we don't have to cut the wages by 30% or 40%. That's not even necessary, I've calculated. It's not a message for doctors, for education and for anyone else that it's going to be reduced to them, as you said, and it's going to be less and less. This net profit reduction is a solidarity act, it is made up to address those who, of course, are not high wages, which will have less impact than others. But it is a precursor as I have said, i.e. the predecessor of those doctors, and I know because so are my parents in this and those educational workers who are successful, who give results, which are not set on the political line, the same is true for civil servants, the same is true for directors of public enterprises who should not be set up and there will be no future set on the political line, that those who are successful be rewarded, that those who are successful and that those who are successful are fired who are not. It's a message. Unfortunately, implementation of this can't be done for over two months. Some of these things, and you know very well, such as health system reform, education system reform and some other things that are structural, have to last significantly longer, because otherwise it's linear and knee-broken. The time for that was a little bit more, a year ago, a year and a few days ago, when you seemed to have chosen the extent to which it was necessary at that time, not excessively different course, because if you are now criticising the VAT increase, you have increased the VATs, also since at my position and surely facing the like, and if not this much of a dreary perspective in the following year, that you did not do so. I mentioned, when I talked about these measures, that I wish those measures weren't extorted and that some of them didn't have to be implemented. Also, I want to be very clear that we have economic policy in this budget. I'm not going to talk about it now, because it's not the subject of the budget, and besides, it's going to talk about it, I hope the Minister of Economy. When I'm already in the economic policy, since I'm responsible for fiscal policy, I just want to turn to the monetary component that's the third component and say that the National Bank of Serbia has reduced its interest rate twice in a row since the publication of the measure, and I'm pretty sure that if I consider it appropriate to keep doing this, and then when this budget and these measures, or these laws, are adopted, that it will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28601	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mladjan Dinkic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28602	This is exactly what I'm telling you because when I said the course was wrong, I said it because the three governments applied it consistently, including yours. That needs to be changed. It turned out to be a failure. This proved to be a failure in both Greece and Portugal, and Spain, all those countries were just getting into a worse and worse situation. It proved successful only in the Baltic countries, but there they cut the salary by 30%. Can it be done in Serbia? Is it supposed to be done? You don't have to. What's the problem? The government says we put up with it today, put up with it tomorrow, so we're better off the day after tomorrow. That's what you've said a couple of times. I'd be the first to sign it if it were true. But it won't be better the day after tomorrow. It'll never dawn the day after tomorrow, if there's no economic growth. You say it yourself – it'll be twice as low as this year. How, if there's no production, what better people will live than? If this little economic growth has come from encouraging investment, let's encourage them more. You said I raised the VAT, yes, VAT on goods of broad consumption, not on food. Am I happy with the result? No, I don't. When you talk about the reality of the budget, you can see for yourself how many associates have given you real estimates, like I used to, when you only two weeks after you delivered the budget to Parliament, you delivered 10 amendments to your budget on the 27th page. You were told that profit tax is not the income of local self-government, as you said in the original budget that you sent to this Assembly. Don't be too confident that superhumans work at the Ministry of Finance. There are good people, but there are also those who unfortunately give different ministers misjudged by this method of negative selection there for years. Trust yourself, your head, and I give you advice – spending reduction policy reduces economic growth, introduces the country into recession. It's all the other way around. It can't be done abruptly, but a little by little, stronger investment and savings in administration and bureaucracy, not savings on doctors and teachers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28603	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28604	President, you weren't here, but members 116 and 107 were injured, violation of the Parliament's dignity. It went without a look at what Minister Krstic said. He said they are not elected and there will be no elected directors of public enterprises on a party basis. I'm sorry, we sat here today for three hours, 126 votes to determine the agenda were given to you by the party director of the public company Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28605	Mr. Djuric, you know this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and don't let us enter into the essence of statements, whether ministers or MPs, each of us is politically responsible for what he said. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You'll have time and in your time say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28606	The technical information is that no competition has been called for Director PTT. It's not politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28607	It really has nothing to do with the president of the National Assembly and the holding of a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28608	It has something to do with Minister Krstic. It's nothing to do with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28609	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28610	I'll be brief. So, tax breaks for investors, even direct incentives are in the budget for next year. It's not a topic for this debate again. The point is, it may have been an opportunity to finance itself, but in order to finance it, or in order for these incentives to be given, we have to have money for it. In order to have that, we need to systematically change some things, such as public enterprises, such as a bulky state apparatus. We've spoken to it all. We have addressed fundamental problems that we have not addressed before, not in one Holistic way that we are doing so now. We have spoken as much as necessary, but as much as necessary at this point. This measurement in the decision that is needed at this time is taking the risk, or withdraws the necessity to change our behavior in the coming weeks and months and to go into these system reforms in order to get as many opportunities as we can tomorrow give and incentives and everything else and see economic growth. I believe there will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28611	The word is made by MP Mladjan Dinkic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28612	Please look at the 38 amendments submitted by the URS parliamentary group, so you will see that there is money, but your colleague, Radulovic, is wasting it in the well. He pours 30 billion dinars into the well. I'll tell you more in detail when there's a budget debate. As far as these laws are concerned, ask the Laundromat here, the man who's a baker, or ask any entrepreneur if it means or does not mean that small and medium-sized enterprises are exempt from part of the profit tax if it is invested. If you destimulate the investments of small and medium-sized enterprises by abolishing their tax incentives, it's a tax incentive, we're not talking about cash here, you're going to get a cut in the number of employees in these companies and they're going to reject your lower taxes. Look what happened when the profit tax rate went up by 215%. Did it grow? Not if we've made mistakes, that you continue them. I'm telling you this very well-intentioned, there will be a reduction in the base on which you can charge that tax. Maybe even I don't think you've even met what they've given you to end, but ask the businessmen, not me, that article 48, is it bad or good? Calculate how much money you're really going to get in the budget with that, and how much damage you're doing to a series of small and medium-sized enterprises with that. We're not asking you to use money you don't have to encourage investment, but money that's being thrown to better redistribute it and plus not to eliminate tax incentives for investments in profit tax laws, and you'll see when you look at the U.S. amendment about what it's all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28613	Next reportedly, the authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group, Dr Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28614	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, the laws we are discussing today unfortunately cannot contribute to the recovery of the Serbian economy. To cure the patient, it is necessary to make a proper diagnosis, and the wrong diagnosis is to treat this situation only with fiscal policy measures, which include new burdens on the economy. I think we need the exact opposite, discharging the economy and implementing the destructive measures that will boost growth and employment. I'd say for you, Mr. Minister, one question is the budget rebalance issue for this year. I'd like to start with that, because it's already obvious that the rebalancing that was passed in July will not be achieved. I'll tell you a few numbers. The July rebalancing envisions 837.4 billion dinars in the budget by the end of the year. By the end of October, only 659,6 billion were charged. This means that in the last two months, November and December, exactly 214 billion dinars or 107 billion should be collected in November and 107 in December. That's just not even theoretically possible, because let me remind you that the biggest charge in the last few years was in July of this year, when 80.4 billion dinars were made. Right at the beginning, because we're not still discussing the budget, we're talking about a set of economic laws, fiscal ones, I'm asking the question of when will the budget rebalance for this year come? As for the development component, which I think is crucial for the recovery of the economy, I think we can only provide it by diversifying foreign policy and trade. I think we should follow the example of Iceland, which made a strategic decision a few months ago where it said -- that, to the best possible co-operation with the EU, they also said -- no, to European integration. This decision was made solely because of the economy. They brought first of all for agriculture, or fishing. As you know, if they would become, or start, European integration even deeper and become EU members, they would have to accept a common EU fisheries policy, meaning for Iceland restrictive quotas and a dramatic drop in income. Fishing for Iceland means, I'll remind you, 12% of gross domestic product, 40% of exports, 15% of jobs. Iceland has made this decision in its economic interests. We have an example now in Europe. Similar processes are happening, processes are happening in Greece, they are happening in Portugal, but one example that is in front of all of us these days is the example of Ukraine, which also because of its own economy has decided not to join the EU, and has turned to a market that can absorb products produced on its market. Why am I saying this? I am talking about differentiating our foreign policy and trade and a balanced policy that needs to be turned aside from the EU with which it should continue to pursue the best economic relations, but must also turn to Euro-Asian integration. As you know, within a year exactly, on January 1, 2015, the Euro-Asian Economic Union will live. So it's not a political alliance, it's an economic union. I'm talking about this part that's related to the development of the economy. These three countries, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan and, in the future, probably Armenia and Kyrgyzstan, and perhaps Turkey, as they move into their negotiations with the Euro-Asian Union, account for 15% of the earth's surface. That's 200 million people. They're the first to produce gas, oil, sunflowers and sugar tails. Others are in the world for potato production. The third in the world is meat, steel, wheat. This is today's most desirable market in the world. Serbia is the only country today that has a practically duty-free contract for 99% of all products produced in Serbia's territory. I'll give you some information, Germany has been in the last three years, and the first one has come out of the crisis, diversified its export, if we call exporting what we sell to the EU. The percentage of products in the EU sold from Germany is around 20% and almost 50% is increased exports to Russia and Kazakhstan. This year, Italy increased exports to Russia by 24%, Belgium by 20%, etc., I could count for a long time. Mr. Minister, this isn't just a chance in product placement, which is beyond a doubt. We have a growth in exports to Russia this year by about 30%. Three times meat exports to Russia increased. The export of cheese to Russia has increased four times. On the one hand, we have a product placement. On the other hand, we have a job problem. It's a market where we can go with our workforce. I don't know if you know the only thing that's going on is the preparation of the Sochi Olympic Games for about 5,000 of our employees today. It means that 5,000 families get funds to build Olympic games in Sochi. It's like the largest factory ever built in Serbia. That's 5,000 employees only in Sochi. In Russia, according to unofficial estimates, it works on unofficial estimates of between 40,000 and 50,000 of our workers. It's 40 to 50,000 families. It's hard to find investors who will open 40 or 50,000 jobs here. When we talk about the Euro-Asian Union and when I compare it with the EU that I will repeat, we want to achieve the best possible relations, economic and other, but not to go into integration, there, except for products, we cannot place our workforce and services. Our construction firms are not operating on the EU market. They're working on the Euro-Asian market. Soon it will be, in four years or five years, the World Cup in Russia. There goes construction, right after the Olympics, new stripes, new roads, new ports, new stadiums. That's where our construction operation can be re-engaged. So, we often watch only the market on the side of product sales, but we need to look at the market on the side of new jobs. There is the potential for new jobs for Serbia as well. Of course, co-operation with Russia could be a lot better if we were to work systemically, not in the way we've done so far, but I'll talk about it a little later. As for the increase in VAT, in the budget's total revenue structure for next year, around 46% of the value added tax is foreseen. Of these, the budget tax is set to add up to 430 billion dinars, an increase of 25.6 billion compared to the rebalancing in 2013. Mr. Minister, my opinion is that these projections are unrealistic. As an MP, I'll tell you, I've been participating for six years in the budgets. I guessed all six times when I said projections were unrealistic. I spoke six times, and I guessed six times. Here, this is today another check to make sure I'm right. History for the past six years says I've been right every time, because very often the projects, which were given by governments before but also by this one, are unrealistic. I don't know why you're going to plan projected incomes that will certainly fail. That's what statistics say, time will tell. An increase in the lowest VAT rate from 8% to 10% for products, whose increase affects the most sensitive parts of the population and whose participation in total traffic is around 40%, will further reduce the low purchasing power of citizens, but also, I think, will lead to a decline in consumption. Due to the drop in living standards, we have a 8% drop in the store this year. Tax increase is a measure of recession character, not developmental. In my opinion, I've said that before when an increased VAT and last time, it's my opinion that taxes increase when the economy grows. I'm sure that's when the economy can absorb it. At a time when the economy is falling, tax increases, burdens and such a random economy, I think it's counterproductive and it's not going to bring the result expected on the revenue side of the budget. Here, best of all, I'll give you one piece of information - the efficiency of VAT collection in this year after the increase in VAT rates from 18% to 20%, there was no increase, but there was a decrease, and there was a 79% charge to 73%, according to the data that I have. What's going on? The grey economy is increasing which is one of the biggest pains in our economy. This increase won't, I'm sure of it, of course, time will show who's right and who isn't, will also lead to an increase in revenues in the budget, but will lead to an increase in the grey economy. As for the increase in taxes for the IT sector, I personally think it may be even the biggest mistake, which is the fastest-developed sector in Serbia, outstanding. According to the statistics I also have, we officially had 230m euros in exports from this sector, mostly software. The potential is much bigger. I will only give an example of Microsoft, which here in Serbia has its regional centre and has been working on software to identify Cyrillic manuscripts that export to Russia. Microsoft in Russia is not doing this, but Microsoft in Serbia is doing software to recognise Cyrillic manuscripts for Russia. They did it. Because of the Free Trade Act, or the duty-free contract we have with Russia, it's treated as a domestic product, it's extraordinary, we develop experts, we develop technology, and I think it's additional development sites. That's that innovative economy, that's that innovative jump we can make. We don't have ten innovative chances. This part, IT, is our innovative chance and I'm asking you to think about it. There are young people, there are the most talented citizens of our Serbia. So let's, instead of now that they're on their way, to stall them and cut them with that tax, let's let them stay on the same level so they can be competitive. India's not waiting either. They don't sit there in India, they're just as fantastic programmers as ours, they don't sit in other countries, so let's at least be competitive with these elements. As for the solidarity tax, they will have no more significant effect on budgeting. The savings that are expected to be achieved with this measure are around 100m euros. I think this is more than one measure that, in a way, you can call solidarity, but it's going to do some damage to these people who have 70,000, 80,000 dinars. And anyway, at this time, when people survive with these humble salaries, any blow to their personal budgets won't do them any good, and it won't do the state any good. Also, I have been called from several hospitals by doctors who say – doctors will be damaged, and some administrative workers who have salaries less than 60,000 will not have this tax. Now for those of us who may be the most qualified and most needed, we work not for so much pay, we sort of subtract, maybe not much, but certainly sensitive to their families. As for salary and pension growth, expected inflation will eat them. I think savings can be made elsewhere, and that wages and pensions, public sector wages and pensions should follow the price rise for a little bit. Mr. Minister, these were all individual measures. They could all be replaced only once, but by a system measure, which would provide the state with 300 to 500 million dollars a year, a much greater effect than the measures you set out in your proposal. The state of Serbia is applying an EU SAA that is causing huge damage to our budget and economy. I'll give you the information, Mr. Minister, about customs. I'll just take the customs. Customs revenues in 2008 were 800m euros, even though our imports were growing. Our imports are growing, and customs revenues are dropping. In 2009, we had no 800m euros but 500m euros, in 430, to have 315 in 2012, and this year we are estimated to have only 280m euros. Once again, in 2008, before the implementation of the SAA – 800m euros, 2013 – 280. Had it not been for the implementation of the SAA, the state could have made between 1.5 billion and 2 billion euros through these customs. The debt could have been smaller. Not to mention indirect problems, when we opened our market completely for EU products, and we were weakened after sanctions, wars, we have high interest, much greater than in other countries, less subsidies, and I think that this one correction, which is the end of the SAA, would bring much more into the budget than any other measure. For the development of economy and employment, we need, I will repeat, the diversification of foreign trade. We see it in the DSS below as best possible co-operation with the EU, but without European integration and in the development of co-operation with the Eurasian Union. Look, we have a paradox. Why isn't this cooperation with Russia even more effective, why is it rather versed? Because there was never a desire to solve this problem systemically. I repeat what I said last time. As we already have a dozen agencies dealing with co-operation with the EU, why don't we just open one, watch out, not ten, but just one co-operation agency with the Russian Federation, which would systematically start dealing with this biggest one of our future markets, where we can place not only products, but where we can get new jobs too? Not to mention the potential of investments from Russia, Kazakhstan and perhaps some other republics on our market tomorrow. We have several examples where these investments from Russia have proved remarkable, not only in Serbia, but in the entire environment. As we have a European agenda that is an action plan for co-operation with the EU, we will insist, seek and fight for that we also have a Russian agenda that will allow our economy real opportunities for development and for improvement, both technology and production processes. Of course, it would be good if the government of the Republic of Serbia did, and you have that possibility, a clear ten-year strategy. Finally, Mr. Minister, as a party to the right, the DSS represents the interests of the domestic economy, and we believe it is counterproductive at this point that these measures are affected by the very businessmen and those who do. I think the economic concept of the government is completely different from the economic concept of the DSS. The Democratic Party of Serbia will vote against these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28615	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28616	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as it always is, at this time, there is a budget ahead of us and we cannot, without reaching the budget. However, before we reach the budget itself, we should point out that we have a new chapter in our fiscal policy, although some here do not like it. We need to make appropriate changes to the laws on which the new budget will rely. The amendments to the laws that are proposed and which are subject to these principles today are those that will allow us to have a budget that will be realistic after many years, i.e. projected on realistic basis and will not be a combination of items that are visible in the public and those that are hidden and remain below the line, and then later appear and surface completely naked in public. Also, we are close to being able to claim in December of the current year that we are dealing with something that can be done and that can withstand a 365-day test, but we cannot, of course, as it always is, promise that we will certainly not have to resort to traditional rebalancing activities already. We are close to the fact that this budget depicts the true consensus of a society on how we must behave in the time in which Serbia is located and when we are not doing well and how we realistically reconcile some goals that are in their very nature obstructive. Simply, it's a math that you can't back down from, if it's in the position that Serbia is in today, when we're overcoming the budget deficit, and today they're changing and supplementing the law and one bill that's ahead of us is nothing but the predecessor of the budget law itself. The budget deficit, of course, is covered by using, at the very least, increases in tax rates and a reduction in budget expenditure. In our case, we need to be more careful on the income side, and the savings that are being potential will be much clearer as the definition when we start to discuss the budget itself. Without a desire to perform in style - my mouth, praise us alone, we were a thrifty state in the current year and were spared as planned. The expenditures didn't run out of control, but unfortunately, our budget failed because they failed the revenues. There are two reasons why this happened. First, the revenues were already projected above the level that is optimal from the point of view of taxation, i.e. the tax rates, contributions and other costs of the state, which stimulate people to go to the gray economy. Secondly, even the tax collection itself, which could be charged in the larger amount by hiring a state apparatus, we can freely say it did not function adequately. There's been a fundamental problem, because we're trying simply not to make the state someone who's dragonically punishing their taxpayers, trying to make more than possible, in a way, to create a gray market ourselves. If we analyze statistical indicators, we could see that many indicators are not so bad, but, unfortunately, from what we're discussing today, it's of very limited benefit. However, this is a question to discuss within some other laws that will soon follow. The most effective measure on the income side is, as we all know, an increase in VAT rates from 8% to 10%, i.e. the transfer of certain items from lower to higher VAT rates. Of course, this measure has greater potential on the revenue side. The flaw in these measures is clear to all, and this is that in a certain way it may be destabilising the IT sector in Serbia. We can't say with certainty that he'll be devastated, because when we talked on the board yesterday, because of the fact that computers are up to 30% cheaper in the environment, the issue of margins in our country has been raised, not just by these 2% increases. I have to take the opportunity to realize that we are no longer a country that is in the first stages of the development of the IT sector, even on the contrary. What is of paramount importance to us is that at the last minute, it gave up the devastating idea that VAT would be transferred to higher rates to hotel accommodation services, as this would result in the cancellation of its good development that took place in tourism, especially in congress tourism in Serbia, and many investments would be at stake. In addition, it was pointed out by the restoring ministry and the professional public, and it is good that it gave up killing the ox over a few steaks. I think it's a good thing she gave it up. The second amendment and addition of the law relating to revenue measures concerns excise duty on tobacco. The emphasis is on the fight against tobacco sales, which is not paid for by a single dinar to the state, and has become a mass phenomenon with rising cigarette prices in Serbia. This is an extremely simple question and refers to the state's ability to deal with its most basic functions. Selling tobacco on black will never stop completely, but it's unacceptable for it to be a mass phenomenon. These issues show the importance of the state and its credibility to propose other things that involve much more complex actions, both in the area of prevention and in the area of control and possible use of force. This is particularly important to demonstrate in conditions where the price of tobacco products in Serbia is much lower than that of tobacco prices in the surrounding countries. In short, there is a desire to share the deficit, but I repeat the overall deficit, so that it does not go out with the arguments that in the year of savings we are projecting a budget that has a greater deficit than it was in the previous year, by acting on the income side. The potential on this side is mostly not at higher tax rates, the space for new taxes is limited, but the space for better payment is open, especially in light of some stronger reforms that could follow in the coming years and which would basically be applied lower tax rates at a much higher charge. I think that's what we're all trying to do and that I can only realize that the key to success is a better charge. So we're on our way to saving. We don't have room to increase tax rates, but we have to increase the basics. We have the opportunity to save on social benefits, i.e. to subsidize the economy of different species. Some questions are also asked, and one of the questions that is asked for a reason is whether we are shortsighted when we treat the problem exclusively through savings. The budget needs to be balanced. It's undeniable, but will we achieve it in the long run if we don't give growth stimulant, if we reduce effective demand and don't relieve the economy. Is the problem with our external debt that removes some of our statehood and sovereignty because it has increased over 60% of GDP or is the problem that we do not have growth, or that a good part of GDP has escaped into the gray sector? Is consolidation necessary and sufficient or is it only a condition that must have along with it essential incentives for growth that will not be the child of any party or any institution? These are, my dear colleagues and colleagues, essential issues that will determine whether this budget is done technically, best of all, realistically, or we will have to rebalance again. Without giving stimulants, we can go out to the green branch, not through selective money giving only to certain companies. Otherwise, I fear that in the year in which we have really put the deficit under the control of savings without stimulating growth, as a result will have slowed the growth of public debt, but that we will remain without economic growth and new employment. We must neither remain fascinated by savings nor see that we have other outcomes that only require a little more credibility, which we will gain if we show as a society through the necessary seriousness and continuity of the reasonable economic policies that are ahead of us. Things have to be viewed dynamically, and the unit of analysis has to be every firm and individual, not a game of large numbers. Only if we understand how fiscal policy affects the basic units of analysis, and in particular how it affects healthy companies and socially vulnerable groups, can we talk about the synergy of different aspects of economic policy-making. If we ignore solving problems in the area of economy and hope that someone else will solve it for us instead of ourselves, all budget tightening will be in vain. There are no solutions that are fast. I have to go before the SPS parliamentary group to say that there will be no solutions that are socially unacceptable, at least while our party is in government, and I sincerely hope it will be over a long period. There will be no fiscal consolidation that will contain elements of social injustice and endangering the positions of groups now living on the edge of existence. On the other hand, we will always give support to the measures that mean creating conditions that people who are now on the edges of this society come at least in an opportunity to be themselves creators of their own happiness. We believe and know that the only future of this society is in a consensus that must be achieved between workers and unions on the one hand and employers and their associations on the other. It only leads to healthy foundations and a healthy environment in our country. We believe that such a partnership is the future of this country and that it will be recognised because it is the only way we can go forward. We also believe in reasonable solutions resulting from the agreement of young and old. By the agreement of those who produce real goods and those who deal with finance. Only through strategic agreements can we have sound competition and be a people who will be respected in the world because we have the same thing to offer. We are aware that we are part of a coalition and that sometimes we have to support some things that we disagree with, because reality is different in front of us. When it comes to this, we see that these are measures that, as MPs of the SPS, we must support in the hope that in some years to come we will have the opportunity to fix them by trying to see things more realistically. I'm particularly referring to the pay cuts that are most publicized these days. It may not be the best move, but I'm saying, the reality in front of us is to cut salaries to doctors, judges and teachers. I am taking this opportunity to state that the right approach is not linearly to reduce salaries, but to find mechanisms of impact assessment and thus lead to a fair policy that will result in an increase in efficiency. In all businesses, where people tend to work and work. We hope that in 2015 we will find better solutions and think carefully about what the state needs to do and how to do these jobs in the right way. Ladies and gentlemen, the time we're witnessing is complicated and challenging. Our desire is for reforms to be a matter that we will have a consensus on, not a matter that is day-to-day politicizing. Although space for the diversity of policies that can be implemented in reality is so reduced that only the narcissism of small differences is the only obstacle. We are facing the answer we want Serbia and it would be good to forget both Serbia's first and second because we have only one and it will start to land if we are not up to the challenges ahead. We have to learn from our own mistakes because we didn't know we were learning from other people's mistakes. The worst thing that can happen to us is that we stumble again on the same stone but this set of laws and the budget that is ahead of us and will be adopted is a good guarantee that it will not happen. I think we can do a lot more than this. I thank you for your attention on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28617	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28618	Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the DS, I would like to say immediately that the fact is that we will not support this financial package, nor the budget, nor is it in any way our desire to criticise the government's actions just because we are an opposition. I will try to show in the next 20 minutes deep reasons why we think that the strategy proposed here and the measures that reflect such a strategy are not what Serbia needs today, perhaps in other times, perhaps in some other countries, but certainly not today. I'd like to say two things first. The first fact that at least the budget arrived on time and that the opposite of what happened last year was not at the last moment as much changed as was the case with the 2013 budget. Yes, the fact that it came in time was completely adjudicated by that amendment, so it was an even worse situation for us MPs because we had to make amendments to the text that was completely offended by the government's amendments. It's not like you haven't changed your budget. We'll talk about it next week. Other elements, it must be said that you have made an effort to demonstrate the state of our country's public finances. I was in your position ten years ago, and it's a good thing you're going back to practice that there's nothing more, as we say the craftsmen of public finances below the line, and let's say folkly, that everything that needs to be shown and as far as public finances are concerned is in the documents that were delivered for discussion. I think it's a good practice, which was neither my successor nor your predecessor, which is why I don't think you'll have the same problem that our nation had with the fact that this year's budget, which by the way, Mr. Minister and you know very well, would have to rebalance, for who knows which time, probably the third time, because the predecessor has exceeded the budget revenues by a billion euros by putting us all on the donkey bench of Europe's public finances. In fact, you listened more to your associates and suggested revenues, which we think are somewhat exaggerated, bloated, that there will be no full VAT revenue as much as you plotted. We certainly won't have a problem with having so many equations to move in the middle of next year that 300m euros from local self-government, in the middle of the budget year, for example. that the city's budget of Belgrade is completely destroyed. That's what this temporarily bigger one sees. Those problems they have, to their surprise come from decisions made by this majority and that have in many ways threatened the functioning of our capital. If this is on time and isn't too modified, the financial systems have come too late, these laws, we've had barely two, three days to see what you're suggesting here, in time and to be honest, I'm afraid it won't be enough. Why won't it be enough? We had a chance yesterday, Mr. Minister, to cross some arguments with your team. I said this package represents the twilight of Serbian public finances, for which I did not blame you, but for the fact that they are not an adequate response to the real challenges of our nation. Yesterday you said it was demagogy. Let me quote you. Today we have seen that we do our macro-economy, if you don't believe me, do you think that I am not objective enough because I am also a participant here in a political arena, Mr Stojan Stamenkovic, who is following and I think he is unique in that case in our country, the macro-economy of our country, and he has followed all negotiations with the IMF, and everything from Milka Planinca. Your majority, not us, you, last year you proposed him to be a member of the NBS Council and thus was fully introduced into financial flows. When Mr. Stamenkovic tells us that the deficit proposed in the budget is a record in the world, when he says that the only countries that have this sizeable deficit of 7.1% are countries to quote – which are at war or which have unstable political systems, I think that's enough reason for all of us to be concerned. I'll add one more thing to keep quoting it. This is what I wanted, in fact, on behalf of the DS, and I believe all people who really want good public finances and our country, to say, and that is that this budget is not what will ensure that Serbia does not go bankrupt. Mr. Stamenkovic says that with this budget it will be necessary as soon as possible, but in the spring to make an agreement with the IMF and to quote – to agree on an emergency plan for public debt reprogramming, because there is a danger that in 2017 foreign reserves will not be enough to cover the one-month import of goods and services, to translate into Serbian, we will go bankrupt, and we will have nothing to pay for imports, the dinar will slide and start inflation. This is no way for me to put unrest into the hearts of our citizens now, but I think it is our responsibility in this home to point out the consequences of what is proposed. This package is not good because the budget has and the financial laws have three functions, macroeconomic, economic and social. If you want, these functions were piling up after World War II and gradually where there were no economic ones, they set up during the deal, during Roosevelt, then after Beverly and other reforms in Europe, and we are followers of all that, they formed social insurance systems and Serbia like other countries in public finances had an increasing number of social functions. The macroeconomic package you're proposing is nowhere. It's neither there nor here. It neither reduces deficits or debt, nor secures the launch of any activity in our country. We've got a dizzy growth in our duties. You found Serbia with 15 billion euros in sovereign debt. You said it was near bankruptcy. So far, you've added five billion euros in less than 18 months. You propose to increase this, not only by 5.8 billion euros, as it was in the budget, but by an additional 800m euros, which you added, 16% increased a few days ago. We'll talk about it when we talk about the budget. The problem is that in the budget and here, when we see what happens to tax laws, in return you have measures that reduce the purchasing power of citizens through an increase in VAT, you reduce the incentive for investment, and it seems to me in the most ridiculous way possible, if you allow me that term, in a law that gives very modest incentives for those who invest in this weather. You're saying, we won't let that happen anymore, the effect isn't that big, it's five billion dinars in 2015, so we won't have any of that in the government register next year. Mr. Minister, I think just what I just said, and I'm calling on other parties, especially those that form the majority, to simply withdraw that law. Economic downsizing funds for agriculture, and we all say it's strategic. There's nothing to build, and we know it runs 16 sectors in our country. As far as capital investments are concerned, there is nothing new than what was formed and launched, except what the previous government prepared. That's why this package doesn't even have an economic function. Socially looking, when you presented the measures at least you said that you would form a fund that perhaps, we don't know, 2014, 2015 I don't quite remember, but was instructed, was there to mitigate the effects of increasing VAT, on basic supplies, on medicines, on communals. That's the main problem. This package has nothing in it, it's just a copy of what you found and a little respect for what you think is given the size. Mr. Minister, you're a technocrat, I was ten years ago. You have the protection of the most powerful man in the country, and I have, even though he had great competition and it was even harder for him. Use the mandate, don't like you said on the board yesterday to say – it'll be later, we're almost there. It's very complicated, there's resistance. If you do not take advantage of the mandate at this time, it will not appear again. I think this is how I show the seriousness of the situation, when I appeal to you and we from the DS have proposed a series of amendments, and I hope that you will accept them, not because DS would then say, we know more, we are more experienced, it's better, than because it's very important that at this point the reforms of the capacity of this package are strengthened. It's still possible to do that, although it seems to me, in many ways, that this is all very uglyly set. Let me say in the next nine minutes a few details about various laws, so instead of speaking in general, let's say what's better and why some of the things that are proposed here aren't good. It's a value added tax. There is a reason why no country in the last two, three years in Europe has proposed to increase the lower VAT rate. The reason is that in an extremely fragile economic and financial situation like Serbia, even if we forget the social moment, and we must not, the financial and economic effect of this measure is not good. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, the figures in Serbia are today: food industry production - minus 16% since the beginning of the year; juice production – minus 22%; beer production – minus 40%; general trade turnover – minus 15%. These are the conditions under which the previous VAT rate increase, against which we were against, has led to over-incomes being exceeded by a billion euros. That's what we talked about. Because of what you are proposing today is the direct and most brutal attack on the pocket of the poorest citizens because without bread, rabbit, milk, without drugs and communals, no one can. That's what they're called. Inelastically good. It's going to happen that people are running further into the gray zone, that those supplies are going to be, as is the case with tobacco, so now you're proposing the law as some kind of rescue or fireman pyromaniac, because of the increase of your predecessors and this government, we have a significant excise now what we have in the tobacco domain, and the same thing is going to happen to us, remember and write down, and about these key things. And you're talking to merchants and that's what they're worried about right now. The minimum you have to provide, and we'll talk about it on the dissenting side, if you keep insisting, and we'll be against raising VAT, it's that on the bulky side of the budget certain funds are provided and that for the poorest pensioners for whom the minimum 13 pensions have been abolished, and I don't understand how PUPS colleagues can not talk about it, and the fact is that these measures of reduction and restrictions on wage growth and pensions are implemented linearly, without any feeling that some are much more difficult. It's hard for everyone, especially for some. You've got to take it down partially on the plain side, and that's what we're going to propose as a true social democratic party. The budget system should not be very smart or verifiable in the domain of public finances to see that this package that you proposed black on white says that this government offers citizens, to all pensioners, to millions and 700, as well as to all those 700 thousand in the public sector, and with this Mimetic effect happens in Serbia, the private sector monitors what the public sector is doing, look at the statistics, look at the experience in the last 12 years, it is simple that after the fall of 5% of purchasing power in the last 18 years, you said that the inflation you plan, however, is lower than before because demand is so small, there is almost no increase of 0.5%, 1%, 1.5% of the following years combined in 2014, 2015, 2016, 3.5% approximately. So you guarantee everyone that, as has been the case for the past 18 months, everyone in the country will be worse in the next three years and every year. It can't be a solution. It is not only socially irresponsible, it is an economic and financial loss strategy. The IMF came to visit you. Here, I spent two months there before the flight. Just to see what's cooking in that kitchen. At that moment, a study came out that echoed as a bomb among those involved in economic policy, which is that the IMF itself admitted that the strategy applied in the case of Greece in the most drastic way, just the one you propose here, did not produce results. The IMF isn't much of a charity group. It matters to them, which is why we formed her after World War II, they make sure that every state and government is able to pay their debts. That's all they care about. The way she did Greece and what we said we should do, it's not good. This leads Greece into an additional problem for paying off their debts. Therefore, give up this losing strategy that you have been implementing for more than a year and a half. For all our citizens, I urge you to change this approach. Let's go, honourable citizens and MPs, all together into the wall, into a financial wall that means at a given moment, Mr. Stamenkovic and others, for several weeks now, talk about it, that it will not be possible to pay off pensions, when it will not be able to repay the debt. It's your responsibility. At this point, you have the greatest space, although I know how hard it is to avoid it, you have to take advantage of that mandate. It's yours, I'd say, not historic, but a very huge responsibility at this point. That's why I don't have time to get into the details of the other laws, how you can delay another year of functioning the central pay register. That's a good idea. Here, I'd like to commend your predecessor for that. What's that for? What are you waiting for? Perfection. That's what needs to be done, so we know where he works. Mr. Minister, I asked you yesterday and today I'm asking you in front of the entire nation, you said at your first media appearance that you, as minister, think it's not normal to receive two more privileges on the minister's salary. Mr. Minister, today you're proposing a law where you can... It's an DS amendment, I'm asking you to accept it, to prohibit anyone in this country who works for the public sector from receiving any salary except in the home. Do I have to show all the papers? They're full of people who receive, here's this, seven paychecks, 454,356 dinars. Is that man an entrepreneur? He didn't, he did. Uh, six salaries, 335,000, three thousand euros a month, nothing deserved. Mr. Minister, we all have a chance to make it right together, and in this law that you're proposing, we'll cancel double, three, four, five, six salaries, and then you'll see how much easier it'll be for you to introduce what I introduced in 2002, and these are pay classes. Because then things fall off and then you'll be able to measure much easier and put order where it takes and which has been threatened in recent years. Unfortunately, I don't have much time. I'd just like to mention two things here. It's that it's not good for you to say for two years no one should be employed unless they beg some body in the government and reintroduce politics. We've given the amendment to ban it -- no exceptions, but that's why in the definition we say for young scientists, who are supposed to come, now they're ending, you went to Petnica, you're a goner, so you know that people who are now finished, although the public competition for scientific projects is currently under way, if this stays like this, we've given the world our intelligence a clear message that they're emigrating. Think about our amendment. He's not terribly ambitious. Ensure that young scientists can join science projects during this. The second thing, you predicted in the budget that the mass of wages in this budget increased by 7% when compared to 2012. Is that a responsibility? You said 3.2% next year. You said it was because some are making progress. Do you realize that this law ensures that anyone who retires will not be replaced. It's about 2-3% of people every year. Make it 1.5%. You've opened the space by 4.5% increase in salary. That's what people are gonna use. You'll see. That's why we're asking you to take a good look at the DS amendments. We ask you to withdraw the Law on corporate tax because your colleague Radulovic today said that foreign investors are cream on cake, and that our cake is broken, that they are capital nonsense. You can't let us not know which way we're going and what we're doing in this country. These are too serious things to be played with. You decide in the government whether we want foreign investment or not. If we want, let your colleagues stop meeting contradictory signals, because you well know from the world where you come from, and in which I was, that every word, any minister, has its weight. Finally, it is absolutely inconceivable that after a decades-long waiting for a family that for ideological reasons was taken away from property, when the DS with the coalition partners at the time ensured that the Restitution Act was passed, that the first thing you say would be delayed. I don't know if you know this, but since 2003, the same DS proposal, it's been feeding, filling... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Serbia's National Bank of Serbia's dedicated account with 150m euros. It is estimated 20m euros, and according to an agreement with the IMF, it will not be counted as a deficit. It's just like that. Use it and don't punish people. In the end, I'd like to conclude, if you give me 30 seconds, Mr. President. Mr. Krstic, there are those who say it's very difficult, that it's all a lot of obstacles, that reality can't change. You're technocrats. You have the protection of the most powerful man. Use it, time passes, it's almost over. Think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28619	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28620	Since you haven't talked too much about the laws, as you did on the board yesterday, I won't be too long. All I'm gonna say is, as far as this is concerned, we're gonna chase and we're gonna hit the financial wall, now's the time to change. Now is the moment to change and we're changing, changing this set of laws which, again, I'm going to repeat, is what's necessary to stop as much as possible that one lump that, I say, has been thrown from the mountain and rolling down and increasing in the last five years. The solutions we offer are, of course, partly extorted, but the solutions that allow us to do in the next period, and that period I mentioned that it is two to three years, I called for, of course, a fiscal strategy which for the first time is a document that shows what we are actually planning to do and in what way, quite clearly, which will allow us to actually implement the things that this wall we are talking about, the financial wall, is going to put away once and for all in front of Serbia and allow us to move in that direction and to develop in this direction. As far as these specific things you've been talking about, we're centrally calculating earnings as the deadline we're moving, but we're going to gradually introduce entities, or certain bodies into it. As for more wages or earnings, of course it has existed for the last 10 years as it stands and cannot be simply cut, because you cannot automatically prevent certain institutions from functioning, which would do so. But for the first time with the collection system that we are introducing in the tax administration, which will allow us how many places someone receives salaries and that we are doing the suspension as much as necessary, we are going to create a system base and database, which will allow us to offer solutions that will not mutilate the state administration, and hopefully in time, to avoid what you are talking about too easily, and that is the Greek scenario of the second thing. Also, whenever this payment is planned that goes into the deficit, as regards the rights achieved by the restitution, which we do not dispute in any way, we only postpone them for one year, considering that we are forced to take measures on other fronts, I am just asking the question – what was the fiscal strategy in 2011, when it was actually adopted and was it planned to be public debt today at the level at which it is, above 60%? That may be the answer to this, and I believe we will have a much wider debate about many of these other things when we talk about the budget at the end of the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28621	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28622	Mr. Cross, let's try it again. It's rare when someone has a mandate like you. On January 25, 2001, I received a similar mandate. Every day we fought all together with heavy things and in the flag and how many strikes and paying classes we made and tax reform, which is deeply done, these are the things that gave us some foundations. Yes, this great crisis has broken some systems in many ways. It's hard, so right now something has to be done radically. I'm afraid that this approach, when you say - I personally don't want to have three salaries, so I'm going to pay it in the budget, but it's me, and you know that our citizens can't understand that you're asking them to pay for more expensive bread, milk, and they're being paid for by characters who receive three or four thousand euros every month, just because they're exploiting a certain system. That's unacceptable. Do you realize, Mr. Minister, that the mandate at such a difficult moment is to recognize the problem and immediately solve it, to say – no one receives double salaries from the budget, and if necessary, of course, through the dialogue that you were supposed to have before, we will see if we can arrange it through the amendments, we will see if there is any systemic exception. What you're proposing here is that everyone punished is the same, everyone who has a salary doesn't matter if they're good, bad, they're taxed the same thing, doctors, teachers, engineers, etc. After that you say, no one will be employed. Local self-government, those who respected the law that was passed in 2009, which you forgot to put out of force... We have a very dangerous situation when we have duality of legal standards. When it comes to court, people won't know what they have to respect. It's a very dangerous thing. You need to put out of force immediately if you want those laws you're changing right now, because some things happen here again. You punish the local self-governments that have been monitoring and saving. (President: Time. ) Don’t tell us to introduce some difficult words here, when we said a year ago that strategy had to be changed. You just said what hit us in the DS a little while ago, which is that no one offers solutions. Mr. Krstic, I promised yesterday, here's a personal signed version of a plan to get Serbia out of the crisis, which the DS prepared. I hope you find a lot of inspiration here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28623	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28624	I've already read it. I'd just like to draw attention to a few things. You and I didn't get a similar mandate. I wish I had a mandate like you. You've done a lot of... (National MP Gorica Mojovic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28625	Please allow the minister to continue exposure in order and peace. Mrs Mojovic, I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28626	You've done a lot as a finance minister. Unfortunately, I think we've gambled a few chances that we've had to change some of the things that we've stayed and after that time, and in the time of the crisis that's been in all of Europe since 2008 and where we've had the opportunity and I believe that macroeconomicly we have not now had the opportunity to bring things into order and to root out some anomalies from the system. I take into account how many anomalies there are and how many systems are down, how I found him when I started my mandate, we can't turn off the light, which would mean some of those things that you suggest or that we'll discuss when the time comes to discuss amendments to these laws. We are doing radical changes right now, but we are doing them in a way that is responsible and that enables us to see things first, things that we haven't had an insight into before, such as the number of employees, the structure of employees, wages in the public sector, things like one fundamental reform of the tax administration and many others, to look at them in an adequate way and to implement reforms so that they will be long-term, that they will be permanent and will not do more harm than benefits. No matter what the situation is at this point, alarming, we haven't taken to panic and we're not going in that direction to panic, we're going to sit down and work to get things in order and put things on our feet, and that takes into account the situation in which both the public sector and some of the other elements that are pictured on the budget we can't do overnight. It's simple, the work that needs to be done here is a job that takes time. We have given ourselves a very ambitious deadline that is embedded in the Fiscal Strategy and incorporated into some members and the Budget Law, which was not the case before, which is that by July 1st we will implement some of these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28627	Replica, MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28628	And was Djindjic easier? Was it easier for Djindjic when he found and led Serbia after the war they participated in and led Serbia, and Milosevic, and Nikolic and Vukic? Was it easier then? Was it easier when we found the ruins? Was it easier when we were two years behind in paying for baby supplements? Was it easier when we owed six and a half months to the pensioners? Was it easier when all the cigarettes were being smuggled? Was it easier when oil was in the streets and in the streets? Was it easier to walk "Determination of Death" on our streets? Was it easier then? Was that an easy mandate? It's a real reform. This is the Democratic Party, which at the most difficult times knew how to respond to the mandate. Mr. Minister, this is nothing to it. Show, or at least the one behind you, and the first vice president, and the Prime Minister, the minimum courage to talk about what you're talking about, and that's reform, to put it into action. You don't accept any of our amendments reformically. Everything's gonna be just as soon as we do, flying a used plane, no investments. How much money did the Arab Emirates get? In particular, how much money from an Emirat account has been transferred to an account in Serbia? I'm telling you zero, and you know it very well. Enough of the show, enough of the fairy tale, enough of what's yet to happen. Minister, burn and respond to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28629	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28630	I'll do this one last time. I don't argue that it was hard back then. I just said that you and I as finance ministers got a different situation. You then had one flight that was recognized by both inside and outside which, unfortunately, after years from 2008 until the moment I took office we do not. We have to prove credibility in conditions that are high public debt, of course, and you had a high public debt, but you had a chance to write it off because it came out of one era and entered another. We're unfortunately that age, I'd say, we gambled, and now we're in a situation where we have to ourselves, without that support and without, so to speak, credit in terms of trust, we accomplish it that way. That's the situation we're in, and that's one of the differences between that and this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28631	Replica, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28632	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there really is a classic replacement here. Reform amendments to the DS and reform amendments are being discussed. If we got out of the past regime when they had all the chance and all the chance, not the amendment, legally to carry out the reforms, would we get into this situation when it was burning and nobody said it wasn't burning, but my question is who set it on fire? Who set that fire in Serbia? Who set fire to such inflation, such a fall, let's say, real growth, i.e. the fall in 2009 of 3.5%, the fall that cost us, Mr. Djelic, at that time of 719 billion dinars? Who predicted these budgets? Who set the financial situation in Serbia on fire? When did the sunbeam come into existence? Now what? The reform amendments solve everything. Why didn't you show courage so far to tell us who brought 730 and thousands of people into the state administration to political, party, godfather, family relations? Who paid them? In what way? Whose responsibility is it? Now, when you finally make a list of these people, and that's not enough, you raise a scale and that's from those who had all the chance, all the time in the world to make something like that, but they didn't. They cared more about the accounts and the traffic of private companies. I wish that for those 12 years, Serbia had trafficked, income as one firm of 38-39 billion dinar Dragan Gilas. Let's do a little reform change. Come on, show us how it's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28633	Replica, MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28634	Now I'm going to tell you, Mr. Minister, because I'm no longer responding to these absurd attacks. You don't have a flight because you don't have results. By all standards, Serbia has been going back to everything since the start of the work. You say, "We found a lump." You make an avalanche out of it and that's the problem. After 15 billion euros in debt, which is not little for the country of Serbia, you added here again last week, an additional billion have increased the country's debt to 20 billion euros. What are you offering us? You're offering us more than 6.6 billion euros next year. That's not the way to stop the bra, Mr. Minister. You don't cut your salary in the budget, you don't take advantage of the possibilities. How much did we hear about the famous Public Procurement Act? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will discuss this next week. The cost of buying goods and services can be seen on the Internet presentation of the Assembly. The increase is 10%. Is that a savings? Where's that billion euros in savings? That's the problem-- no flight, no credibility. The only answer you have is an insult to your political opponent. It just doesn't work anymore. That's not working. Nobody believes that anymore. Serbia needs concrete answers. Serbia needs perspective. Serbia needs more money to see in its budget for agriculture. She needs money that won't go for 500 million dollars from the World Bank and 200m euros from your transit fund just to get people fired, and that's people who are 50 years old, people who don't have any high-end expertise like you, who can't manage the labour market today. You tell them without any program for their future. Give the future to people, that's what Serbia needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28635	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28636	Articles 106 and 107. Mr Djelic brought up something exciting here so that people would believe that in the 1990s Alexander Vukic and who he mentioned, all of us, and I was a minister along with Mr. Vukic, were in charge. First of all, Mr. Djelic, you know we couldn't have wanted to in the 1990s. Second, you're in charge, not us. Third, you sold all the companies for three and a half billion and 1990s, and that was one of your main electoral slogans when you won October 5th, that we sold 49% of Telecom for a billion and a half euros, as you will. Maraca or the euro, it's the euro today, to be completely honest with you. The equivalent is the same. It's one of your main election campaigns. A billion and 650 to be exact. You sold the whole Serbian economy for three and a half billion, and now for that economy of Serbia, which we had to cancel, privatisation, because it was wrong, and you were canceling it, and not only this government, we pay 750 million a year for those workers. Now let's take the four, five years that we pay for 750 of those workers, so we're all three and a half billion that you took for sale and privatisation back to pay for the workers of poor privatisation. So we didn't take the money from what the citizens had been doing for 40 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28637	Mr. Angelkovic, since you've reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, just so there's no replica. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28638	I just want to be very clear, I'd suggest we calm down a little passion. I didn't have anything bad to say, I even followed your work as finance minister, Mr. Djelic. I was talking about some other times, just to talk about what's been on the media for a few weeks and break that myth. I'm just going to go over the fact that it's basically what I want to do. At the end of July 2012, when the new government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, it was 15.5 billion euros in debt. At the end of November 2013, it is around 19.5 billion euros before this new issue of the Euro Bond according to preliminary data. It is an increase in public debt over the past 17 months of four billion euros, without the last euro bonus. You'll see why. I just want to say what these funds were used for. I'm not talking about a lump, about an avalanche, I'm talking about a lump that's become an avalanche. So, out of the four billion euros, two billion euros were used to finance the budget deficit, which during this period, meant from July 2012 to November 2013 it was 227 billion dinars. Secondly, to finance the failed banks of PVB, Agrobank and RBV, these are the liabilities of the past again – 260m euros, for the capitalisation of the Commercial Bank – 100m euros, and this is the payment, based on the early payment of the debt to the London Club, is given 300m euros and by guarantees to public enterprises, which is something that we address with change in this budget and in this fiscal strategy. By guarantees, the debt has increased over 500m euros. That doesn't mean all these guarantees will be paid off by the state. After all, what remains between it is free cash and debt in an account at the National Bank. So the money we have on the account is 1.15 billion euros from what these four billion euros were taken. Just to break the myth of what those money was spent on. They've been spent because the locomotive's been going that way and going further, it's been going towards that financial wall since it left, so since mid-2012. I'm taking this intersection, we're pulling the brake now. We can't turn her around 'cause the train's gonna be off the rails if we do it today for tomorrow. That's what we do. This next year's budget and these laws that we're supposed to talk about right now are the responsible brake pull, brake pressure and the fiscal strategy that's forecasting over the next three years is how to bypass or remove that wall. It's just facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28639	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28640	I'll try for a while, since it's set here in a very dramatic way, as usual, a question - who set it on fire? He burned down a student grain in this country, and this student was called Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, along with Professor Milosevic. When there was a question, who burned it, they set it on fire. So that we don't go to the 1990s, because the data is murderous for you, and you can go from 2008 and tell fairy tales to the people as if the crisis wasn't economical in this country, or in the world, with your cheap, pathetic attempt to accuse a party of something not guilty of, and not accusing your coalition partners, I'm just saying that gentlemen are acting in a way that has already become symptomatic and endemic. You are unable to say absolutely nothing of what you have built or what you want to do for half your authority's term. You come to this congregation and you keep telling us about what used to be. Here you go, gentlemen. Make a chicken and come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28641	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28642	Now I'm supposed to be offended by the henhouse, so let's go outside. I don't think that's gonna happen. It is for some much softer characters on our political scene, but for the sake of truth, and for the sake of less theatre, the burning of grain and everything else, what I want to inform not those who want to hear but are in this room, because anything to tell them will not be heard, but as in those sculptures where mouth, eyes and ears are closed, from the United Arab Emirates only for one project to encourage our dedicated industry, only for the Atlas rocket is paid into the budget and not in the straw shop and not in the aunt's couch 12.5m euros. In the Republic of Serbia, he landed, unlike the previous 10, 12 years when only mosquitoes and flies landed at the airport, landed half but functionally and much better than all those in the former JAT fleet, the current Er Serbia, and close their eyes to it. One has not landed but will land on your sorrows, but fortunately all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will land a fleet of 10 Airbus planes and 319. Serbia will now be a profitable company, valued not only in Serbia's areas, but in the areas of this part of Europe. You don't like it either, and it's not for a chicken. I respect that, it wasn't with that pace that grew "Darek Media". It's not that pace. The "Darek Media" grew much more significant, it grew much faster, but it is owned by DS leaders. This is how the state of Serbia grows under the leadership of the SNS, but this is not how our companies grow, since we do not have them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28643	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28644	Mr President, Article 27. What made you let this happen at the end of the day? On what basis did Mr. Babic first speak, then replicate Mr. Stefanovic? There was some normal debate between the MPs of one party and the minister. I suppose the minister represents, I don't want to go in, but I mean quite correct authority in this conflict. Does anyone need this in front of a television diary to happen? I say that for myself and for the other MPs waiting for some order to speak. After this play, which everyone here is doing, you're gonna interrupt the session, right? Before the diary, in prime time, and then I'll see you tomorrow. We've been waiting here since 10.00 this morning. Why are you letting this happen? I see you're looking forward to it, and you're in it, that's what I have to say. You're communicating with your MPs. At the end of the day, we reached the chicken and student who burned the grain. I don't see what Er Serbia has to do with this. Plane A 319 is fine, just made the first time 20 years ago. These others retaliate in a similar way. Why does it end like that, Mr. Stefanovic? The rest of us have to wait until tomorrow, because tomorrow morning's not due. The prime time is chicken and flip charm.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28645	I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I've informed all my colleagues about how we're doing. From all the parliamentary groups, they asked me when we worked and how we worked. I have clearly announced that we will have a debate during today's day of authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, where your authorised representative of the parliamentary group spoke, and could say in a better time what he wanted to say. As president of the National Assembly, I do not have the right to restrict MPs from reporting and seeking a replica when they are mentioned, or when authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups respond to the mention of their parties. That can't happen. Look at the stenogram. I can't get into what any MP will say in an argument, especially in a replica. Many today spoke far beyond the subject of the agenda. Today we have no budget on the agenda, and many have only talked about the budget. What do we do? The theme is so good, it's about economic moves. That's why I think it would be better and more correct to allow that kind of debate than to end. If I'm happy, as you say, I'm not happy. It's a lot easier for me in every sense when the debate is being held on the subject and when it's all over for the most part of the day and it's been going on. Am I going to communicate with the MPs of my parliamentary group, absolutely will. It can't be you or anyone else to stop me. I hope he doesn't try. So, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. As far as I'm concerned, we can go back to the debate at any moment, but it certainly doesn't depend on me alone. That depends on all the MPs who take part in this debate. If I were to deny anyone's right to a replica, it would be here either asphyxiation of the right of people to turn around, if the Assembly wasn't democratic or tolerated or anything like that, which I don't think is right for me to do or say. I'll always let people say it. I appeal to them to use the terms that are acceptable to the National Assembly in these performances, and in that sense I agree that we should all take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, but we will plead, if you wish, in the day of the vote. Replica, Mr. Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28646	Mr. Minister, first of all, let me thank you for giving us the most important illustration of the error of the goals you are currently trying to achieve. Now you've explained to us how you used, if I'm not mistaken, four billion. We listened very carefully. In these four billion euros, there is not a single euro or dinar for Serbia's economy. To be specific, you said you had received the Commercial Bank. We know why. Other shareholders have been insisting on it for two, three years, so can you not tell the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development? They're in a hurry. They'd like to resell their share. We know all that, but the moment the credit activity in Serbia falls, when all the banks withdrew a billion euros last year into their nuts, when that Commercial Bank has liquidity, it's a luxury. You shouldn't have done that then. You told us some banks were covered. If there are any illegal matters, let all authorities do, but contrary to what was said for some of these banks, you covered and saved those who were above the legal limit. You didn't have to. One more thing, where that risk has been systematically, that so many banks that have one or two percent of the market's participation allegedly endanger things. No, you wouldn't. You've returned 300 million euros or dollars to the London Club. It's marketing. It doesn't change the role of the aggregate, no indicators. That's what your predecessor did, to say something's coming back. We can keep going. Mr. Minister, just to tell you one thing, you don't work primarily in that place, or those who have put you in the interest of international financial institutions, and you don't work in the interest of bank shareholders. They're important people, but mostly at this point, and they'll figure it out, you have to, as you say, talk to the citizens, the manufacturing sector, so when these bankers say it's not good, you tell them -- if it keeps up, the next one that's gonna die is all you. Your priorities are upside down. These four billion you've squandered and these 5.8 plus 800 you've misplaced. There's a problem and that's the difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28647	Time. Replica, Mr. Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28648	I mean, how can I not say that the demagogy of four billion was given to the recapitalisation of the Commercial Bank? This rest is spent on deficits. You know that covering the deficit is subsidizing the budget from one side. What was in that budget in 2012 and 2013 is not going in. As for bank coverage and systemic risks, we've done an assessment of the damage to VAT. I'm not going in for these others. We have assessed together with the NBS in a new institution that is set up next week, and we have done it informally, which is for financial stability, we have assessed on the fact that we have to do what we have to do, which is done with the Business Bank of Belgrade, and we are taking steps not to let it happen to us with any bank in the future. I think after what you say has to be done more on one side, I can't catch a consistent thread, because on the one hand you say that what we're proposing isn't enough and that it takes more courage, and on the other hand you're saying that we should turn to the citizens what we're doing all the time and honestly, as you can see, there hasn't been any change compared to what we've been talking about since October of the month when we went out with the first package of measures and the first video of the situation. Then you go out and you say, we work for foreign financial institutions, and those three things put into the same paragraph is simple, I can't catch a logical thread, not to say it's not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28649	I have Mr. Djelic and Mr. Stefanovic registered in the system, I can only give a word once, and you can choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28650	Mr. Minister, it seems to me that we can see where the problem is now far more precise and I will not answer this matter again. I'm just saying that I'm very worried that 100 million euros, when you say that, is just like that. In this budget, nearly 14 billion dinars are foreseen for the whole science of the Republic of Serbia, or one little more than that figure. You're talking about a solid tax, and only one guarantee for "Srbigas", which you said, not us, you said in the government that you wouldn't give it, will be twice as big. The pots are mixed. It's a difficult situation. The pots aren't big, and when they're mixed up, we have a big problem, especially at a time when you have little resources, you have to think very carefully about what the priority is. Who said we were attacking you to work for international financial institutions? No, we just said that at a given moment it would be much smarter if for those 100m euros, if we took that example you increased the 50m euros budget for our agriculture. You cut it by three billion dinars. By three billion dinars, you cut it. And that you increased by 20 million euros, for example. for science, so that finally scientists have a way to finance direct material costs. For example, for 50m euros, one fund you were talking about, not us, which would be the safety for pensioners the poorest and other layers affected by the increase in VAT rates. Is this fair what I said? Is this a demagogy? This can be done. Let's do it that way. Why wouldn't they? The stockholders of the Commercial Bank would survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28651	National MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28652	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we talked about everything but a set of laws that are practically the beginning of reforming Serbia's economy and social policy. You may not have known, Mr. Minister, but you woke up two former ministers to teach you how to look at the economy of Serbia, which is over-indebted, and which should prepare about five billion euros, only for the interest of what some former owners of this country, because they thought it was in debt. It is not easy for you, but at this point you see that you have one great responsibility and weight, precisely because you have led to one responsible policy, and you have pointed out the seriousness and real situation in Serbia. That situation at this point, so it's not even a little great. We've seen the budget deficit. We realized that the biggest deficit for public enterprises, for the benefit of the social enterprises in restructuring and for the wolf is that part of the economy practically that can't be fought for the savings the public sector needs, essentially to make. We now have for the first time information that 740,000 people have been employed in the public sector. For the past 13 years, we haven't had any information as to what the number of public sector employees is, but we know very well, and our previous negotiators on this subject have lectured us that we should listen to the IMF, and this same IMF has always talked about it, in each contract and arrangement that 20% of public administration should be fired, or 20% of public spending, and about 10% of pensions are reduced. They never did so, but at the expense of everything and Serbia's entire economy persistently hired more and more people in the public sector. It used to be necessary, and in most cases it wasn't necessary. I would pray to my colleague, as I am addressing the minister, and since my colleague lectured for the last half hour, that ministers can indeed ask the committees everything they want and this Assembly and this Serbian government has introduced this transparency in the work between parliament and the ministries and ministers themselves. What you have now shown with this set of laws and this draft budget is that you really have good intentions for this country, that indeed this government and Mr. Vukic's proposal had a full explanation for why he proposed you to be Minister of Finance, because you showed that you could bravely go out in front of all Serbian citizens and say what a budget deficit is. What are the costs resulting from these 13 years and how fundamentally we stand at the view that it is very difficult to run one responsible economic but social policy of Serbia. What is difficult, which is when the Fiscal Council and one brain trust sits and says – you know, all subsidies to public enterprises should be lifted, and all subsidies to social enterprises in restructuring should be lifted, and pensions should be reduced, and that means that Serbian citizens should know, a minimum of 150,000 to 200,000 people who would lose their jobs. And then when the Serbian government says extremely responsibly – no, we will go one step at a time, and we will save on those items where possible, where we will all equally try to bear the burden of all austerity measures. Then it's total demagogy when they say -- well, you're now attacking teachers, attacking doctors, attacking, and protecting pensioners. No, we preserve the country's simple economic stability, which is the most important detail, and what you said, is controlled accounting and sustainability of the budget. It's very difficult, especially to project for the next three years. But that is why it should be said openly to the citizens of Serbia, for the next three years we will have to bring unpopular and painful measures. They relate to the public sector, the state administration, employed by these 740,000 concerned social enterprises in restructuring, but also to a certain part of the restructuring of the pension fund, which will certainly make certain changes in certain incomes and social categories. There were always so-called so-called budgets. non-tarified social giving positions and that's what needs to be avoided. We've never had a chance to listen to all this before, about the budgets of former prime ministers. It is important to say that the government adopted the fiscal strategy on 1 November 2013, which envisioned a reduction in the budget deficit by 2%. But what is interesting, she realized that these huge savings would result in major social disturbances, and that it should be done with some 1 – 1.2%, of which 0.85% pulls through these legal changes and savings that relate to both the income tax of citizens and this part relating to the savings of workers, i.e. civil servants and deputies and these changes relating to the increase in VAT, so we have that 0.3% will be shown through a reduction in subsidies, which will be almost three billion dinars in the following year. Why is this important? Because we have to slowly bring in the process of privatising social enterprises in the restructuring of the region, because this limit is legally 30 June 2014. We have to free these 153 companies from budget financing, we have to find a way to survive, and what they don't want to integrate in some other way or go bankrupt. There is somewhere in there a proposal from the Ministry of Industry that will go through certain legal solutions through this Assembly in the future should be supported, together with the Labour Act, along with the laws on planning and construction. But what is important is to say that everyone has been a little involved in the destruction of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the last 13 years for the purpose of insinuating in some way certain relevant entities in Serbia's economy. We have come to this by saying that it is simply very difficult for Serbian citizens to understand that we all have to bear the burden of savings equally. You know, that's a question in another country where about Serbian citizens have, as they would say, a corporate culture, or a culture to pay taxes, to see their country as something that gives them some security and economic but also an economic opportunity to function on the capital market. Then it would simply not come to the fact that some non-equivocals lead to certain positions of demagogy. What I'd still like to point out about all these legal proposals, and believe me, I've read them all, unlike many who have debated here, and I can see they haven't even read those legal proposals at all. As far as the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is concerned, it is clear that it will go completely every year to a six-month gradual increase of 0.5%, but what the Law on income tax of citizens we had in the debate has been shown to be a complete misunderstanding somewhere. Because the law proposes that an employer who has a certain self-employed activity be made aware of whether he wants to pay a citizen's income tax as his income, or whether he will give it away from his own activity. Thus, this law defines exactly what is the method of taxation relating to profits. It therefore considered the ministry in its proposal that the budget could generate potentially 1.2 billion dinars. The second part that will practically cover this deficit is the part relating to pension and disability insurance, which is approximately 1.4 billion to give its contribution to preventing, that is, the reduction of the deficit, while it is fully justified that the tobacco law has been passed not only because of those excise duties that we see only through the budget, but because of compliance with certain European directives of 2001 and 2010 and 2011 which is fully in line with these regulations. That is why we really should commend him for being given in this package of laws. What caused probably major reactions somewhere, that's this VAT law that increases the rate from 8% to 10%, but one should say, that what's good, which is, let's say, some previous governments have put under this measure, which is that there were revenues taxed and those related to agriculture and forestry. That was interesting, too, that people who were involved in picking these products and who were literally barely able to survive from these funds at the end of the month were taxed. So, with that kind of operation in this area, you've come to the conclusion that many have entered the gray area of the economy, and now they're completely freed from it, but that's why the owners of certain business entities dealing with this kind of thing have been introduced into a legal system. The effects of these revenues are not small, so 20 billion dinars per year give and that's what's very important. The law on corporate income tax would otherwise be commended for the fact that last year this law practically amounted to 23.8 billion dinars. By introducing such a tax on the profits of legal persons, the budget is thought to amount to 8.5 billion dinars in 2015. Why is it even important to say and commend certain legal proposals relating to social security contributions? Because simply the founder always wants to pay, unless there are certain funds, they contribute to that minimum personal income projected by the Republic of Serbia. This proposal shows that the practical state is considering you by requiring that minimum to be greater for the founders of its business entities, thereby giving great benefit to the individuals who have these entities, because they will later receive a pension, i.e. the basis for calculating pensions much greater. Finally, it should be said that it is very important that the law which implies the return of the seized property and the compensation, because it implies that in 2014 the full procedure in the legal sense of collecting documents and issuing solutions should be completed and that in 2015, according to some EU rules and recommendations, there must be State participation in a certain monetary form. The monetary form is up to 10% and can be up to 10,000 euros in value, and the rest of the 90% will go through government bonds. It is really very good that this law represents a good signal to all those who have entered this process and reminds that this deadline is February 2014. This shows that Serbia is still defined by this European path, because it is one of the conditions that will come at some time when negotiations with the EU are opened, and that is the point that is practically in the work of the finance ministry. In the end, I would just like to tell you that the easiest and most difficult thing to do is to essentially start certain savings and reforms, but this country, or the Ministry of Finance, has begun from itself, as seen through these eleven legislative proposals. What is important is that the reduction of the state administration will be one of the most difficult jobs Serbia has ever had. It is very difficult to stop you from leaving quality personnel from the state administration, and yet, on the other hand, it is very difficult in some way to rationalise the number of employees. It's very hard to cancel all the guarantees we give to public enterprises overnight, because it always causes some major earthquakes in the functioning of the economy, but it's obvious that you have the courage to do so. The Serbian Progressive Party will back all legislative proposals in Dan. Please continue on this path of reform laws and for that you will always have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-03-0.u28653	Thank you. At this point, we interrupt work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
