ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21155	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all agenda points and a decision on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, with the proposals for a decision on granting consent to the amendments and amendments to the financial plans of the mandatory social security organisations for 2013, we move to a decision on the remaining points of the agenda of this session. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the budget system. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 33, abstentions – there are no, no four votes, of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the MPs: Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Article 7. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments submitted by the MPs: Vladimir Ilic to Article 5, along with Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic to Article 9, Borisav Kovacevic to Article 14, Gorica Mojovic to Article 16, with the correction and amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on members 9 and 18. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 6, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 7, no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 6, no one, with abstentions, voted 168 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic, Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Radmila Gerov, Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 166 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 15th amendment with the correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 166 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 164 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, no one, with abstentions, voted 168 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We move on to a decision by the National Assembly on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. I remind you he's a 20. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 39, the abstentions – there is no vote, not 11 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 45 abstentions – there are no, no four votes, of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pensions and INVALID Security Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 43 abstentions – there are no, no four votes, of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165, out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 40 abstentions – there are no votes, no votes, 8 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Pension Insurance Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 46 abstentions – there are no, no four votes, of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Download of Obligations to Public Business "Serb Ways" according to business associations on the basis of unsettled obligations and the transmutation of those obligations in the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the draft law in principle and in particular, and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(4), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the taking over of the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" by companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and the conversion of these obligations into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 42, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote 10, of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 156 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 158, out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 171 out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 159, out of the 182 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 163, of the 182 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment in the same text was brought together by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic and joint MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 152, out of the 182 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 162, of the 182 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 160, out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 50 abstentions – there are no, no six votes, of the 185 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the taking over of the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" towards companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and the conversion of these obligations to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 49, the abstentions – there are no, no five, of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority of the votes of all MPs, passed a bill on the taking over of the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" towards companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and the conversion of these obligations into public debt by the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE LAW ON THE PURPOSE OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES TO THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND THE MEDICINAL PRODUCTS AND THE TRANSPORT OF THESE OBLIGATIONS TO THE PUBLIC REPUBLIC OF SERVES AS THE National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the Law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the draft law in general. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that Article 105 of Section 3. 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, scheduled for the National Assembly to decide most of the votes of all MPs on the laws governing public borrowing. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the law on the obligation of health institutions to large-scale drugs on the basis of the purchase of drugs and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 48 abstentions – there is no, there is no 9 vote, out of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all the MPs a bill amending the law on the taking over of health institutions' obligations according to large-scale drugs based on the purchase of medicines and medical material and the conversion of these obligations to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE ACCOUNTING LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill on accounting. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – 47, the abstentions – there is no, there is no – 11 MPs from the total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – two, did vote – 172 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 174 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 174 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 172 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 172 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 171 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 174 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 172 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 171 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for nine – 172 of the total attendance of the 181 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 41. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote – 49 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic put together the title above members of the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 170 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none, abstention – one, voted – 169 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic put together the title above Articles 44 and 44 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote - 171 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted— 170 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the title above Articles 48th and 48th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – 169 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, submitted an amendment to Article 51. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 53 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the bill on accounting, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 42 abstentions – there is no, no vote – eight of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on accounting. We are moving to the 7th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE REVISION We are moving to the decision by amendment. I'm putting the draft review law to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – 39, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 15 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, none, the abstentioned, voted – 169 of the total of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 169 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 169 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, none, the abstentioned, voted – 169 of the total of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 110th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote – 168 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's in article 113. The draft law provides for the provision of Article 113 to have a feedback. According to Article 197(2) and Article 160(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, when voting on those provisions, the National Assembly will in particular decide whether there is a general interest. I put the motion contained in Article 113 to the vote. The proposal for a law that there is a general interest in the provision of Article 113 having a feedback effect. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 24, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 25 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft review law to the vote, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 40 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 10 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill of review. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON FACTORING Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to decision-making. I'm putting a vote on the factoring bill, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – six abstentions – there is no, no vote – 29 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MPs Bojana Bozanic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none, the abstentioned – one, did not vote – 165 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 165 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic together submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the factoring bill, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – seven, abstention – one, 31 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a factoring law. We move to a vote on proposals for a law on the approval of international contracts. I remind you, on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. We move to the ninth item of the agenda – Proposal for an INFRASTRUCTURE LAW BETWEEN THE Government of the Republic of Serbia and THE Government of the People's Republic of China, I am putting the proposal for a law on the validation of Annex No. 1 of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 29 of the 175 MPs present did not vote for – 145, against – none, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Amendments and Agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on the Realisation of the Programmes "CREDIT FOR THE AID TO THE Small AND Medium ENTERPRISES BY THE HOME BANKS SECTOR AND SUPPORT TO LOCAL DURING THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT BY THE PUBLICATION OF THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY AND THE PROPOSE OF THE PROPOSE OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on credit for the implementation of the Programme "Credied for the Assistance of Small and Medium Enterprises through the Domestic Banking Sector and Support of Local Development through Public COMMUNAL Entrepreneurships" in generality. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 30 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. National MP Mira Petrovic, at a session on 2 July 2013, at 11:15 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 157 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on July 2nd, 2013, at 8:13 p.m., pointed to violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not citing a member to whom the injury relates. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 154 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has decided not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 15 July 2013, at 12.25 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether a member of 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 94, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not 65 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that a member of 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 15 July 2013, at 12 o'clock and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether a member of 107 is injured. Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 95, against - seven abstentions – there is no, no vote - 58 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that an injured member is 107. Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 15 July 2013, at 12 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether a injured member is Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 101, against - three abstentions - there is no, did not vote - 51 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that Article 106, paragraph 1, has been injured. Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babić at a session on 15 July 2013, at 12 hours and 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether a member of Section 107 is injured. Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 90, against - no one, with abstentions, has, has not voted - 55 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that Article 107(1) is injured. Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 15 July 2013, at 13 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(2). Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether a injured member is Article 107(2). Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 79, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted - 64 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that Article 107(2) has been injured. Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 15 July 2013, at 13 hours and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide if a member of the 106 is injured. Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 82, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted - 60 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is an injured member of 106. Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 15 July 2013, at 13 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether a member of 107 is injured. Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 90, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted - 50 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is an injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. At the same time, I remind the MPs that at 12.00 hours, the ninth extraordinary session begins, and I ask that we begin at 12.00 hours on time. (The session ends at 11.25 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21156	The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 16 July 2013 (The session began at 12.15 p.m.). The session is chaired by Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 166 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, MPs have the right to ask questions, i.e. to seek information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word on the basis of this member? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21158	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to use this possibility for some very important and serious questions for the end I come from and for the people I represent here. An event where the public in Serbia did not pay enough attention, and as it should have, was an incident committed by four Serbian Army soldiers in Novi Pazar. On July 10th, the four soldiers called for a taxi ride to the barracks and from the moment they entered the taxi car, they began to shout taxi drivers. Then they started with insults, even death threats. One of those threats was – if you know who you're driving now, we're soviets, members of a special anti-terrorism unit, we're working on a crossing with Kosovo and we're killing Muslims and Shipara. After that, they also physically attacked him. The cab driver managed to get out of the vehicle and scared for his life, he called the police. As far as I'm concerned, the Army has already initiated proceedings against these four soldiers. It is very important that the process is transparent. The way the culprits will be sanctioned will be a message that will be sent by the authorities to all those who have such ideas, but also similar ideas, but also a message that will be sent to the endangered citizens of New Market. I don't want to talk right now about how upset this incident has upset all the citizens of New Market, especially those referred to by the threatening words of drunk soldiers. For generations, the new Pazar, through centuries, has patiently and carefully built his multiethnicity, and it has not been disrupted in even the most difficult moments. The citizens of Novi Pazar will not allow anyone, so anyone to play with these values, and especially someone who is welcomed to work and stay in a barracks located in the center of town. Meanwhile, after the incident, there was another one that, unfortunately, also failed to get the public's attention, which is the graphics -- Ratko Mladic, written on the wall of the Islamic-Agina mosque in Nis. The mosque had been set on fire before in the March 2004 riots, and a day-long police surveillance was assigned after burning over the mosque. Despite that surveillance, several months ago there were broken windows on that mosque, and on July 13th, the graphite was written. The mosque was originally built in 1720 and is the only mosque in Nis and the surrounding area. I want you to understand this, especially you, my fellow MPs, that these events have brought unrest and uncertainty into lives and have done harm to the citizens of Serbia of another religion, or other nations compared to most. We are as a state obliged to protect the rights and freedoms of all its citizens. Besides, that's what we've committed to with the MP's oath. They're people who aren't guests here, they're on their own. I find it extremely important and therefore ask the Government to clearly determine these incidents and declare its position to the public, and I call on the competent authorities to do their job quickly, efficiently, professionally and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21159	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21160	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, today is July 16th. On today, in 1946 preparations were made for the crime, and General Dragoljub Draža Mihajlovic was shot on the night between July 16th and 17th. I am taking this opportunity to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, whether the government will propose to parliament to adopt a resolution condemning the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes, in line with Council of Europe Resolution 1096 and 1481, because the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has called on all former communist countries to condemn the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes. Without the adoption of the resolution, Serbia will not become an EU member. This resolution was adopted by parliaments of all countries in the region, except for BiH and Montenegro. Croatia, to remind you, did this five years ago. If Croatia, for example, has pleaded on the crimes of the totalitarian communist regime at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, rejecting the legacy of Josip Broz Tito, I ask - why does Serbia keep the legacy of all that was bad and what has caused the greatest crimes in the 20th century in these areas? As a result, I will state the fact that the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes of Totalitarian Communist regimes so far, in just three years, has listed over 50,000 names and names of people who have been liquidated without trial, just because they thought otherwise, by a new winner. 210 mass graves were found in Serbia's territory. Is that sufficient reason for Serbia, as well as all countries that bear the legacy of the communist regime, which in the meantime have become members of the EU, fences against these crimes, condemn those crimes and state their clear stance? I'll read you a piece of the Council of Europe resolution. I'd like the Prime Minister to read it, too. "The totalitarian communist regimes, which were in power in Central and Eastern Europe in the last century and which are still in power in several countries in the world, are without exception characteristic of a massive violation of human rights." We, if we want to and pursue European values, must first protect human rights, as the greatest principle of democracy. Infringements differed depending on the culture of the country or the historical period and covered individual and collective killings and executions. I remind you that the Russian Duma has condemned the Stalinist crimes, and that Serbia, as the greatest guardian of that legacy that has brought Serbia's greatest misfortune, must not be determined for years, decades back, according to these crimes. Several times we have talked about it only in the last few days and we have issued a statement asking that all parliamentary parties, as the Council of Europe is asking, be determined according to these crimes. We survived the tragic history from 1944 to 1946, so after the war and after the war people were killed because they thought otherwise, here in Maglai, at the stadium "Borca" near Morava and everywhere there are 210 mass graves in Serbia. That crime, or those criminals who committed crimes, were rewarded for their crimes. History was then repeated in the wars of the '90s, because people in these places thought the crime was even worth it. I don't dispute the anti-fascist role of the Partisan movement, but I seek, for the sake of reconciliation and for the sake of all that awaits us in the future, to determine ourselves also by the crimes committed in the name of the liberator, the release and all that they have waged as some kind of fight for the better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21161	Time. Thank you. The word is Dr. Neven Cvtićan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21162	Dear President, gentlemen of the vice-presidents, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I refer my question to the minister of education, science and technological development in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Zarko Obradovic, and it concerns the way science is financed in Serbia and the scientific institutes. We're all aware, not to be unrealistic, difficult situations in which public finances are found. We are all aware that budget items, which stand out for science, cannot be at the level at which they are in developed countries and the EU and the rest of the world. For example, let me share one piece of information with you. The separation for science in Japan and Finland is greater than 4% of GDP. Not only the state but also the private sector, i.e. the economy, participates in this isolation. The separation for science in Serbia for many years, almost a quarter of the century since we entered the crisis, has been no more than 1% of GDP. To repeat, no more than 1% of GDP, and usually the figure is from 0.3% to 0.6% and 0.7% of GDP, respectively. These funds are only enough for the science of life and not to live, but to split the wages for the few scientists who work in the institutes. Our science plays a social role. In developed countries, science performs a development function and there is no country development without investment in science. So science is the main resource that serves the development of a country. My particular question, to formulate this question, is – can we change the model of science funding? Can we just unfunded science from state sources? Can we get the economy, the private sector involved in funding science? Natural sciences can be included in the production process. Social sciences can participate in strategic state decisions. In order to further specify my question, I ask Minister Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development in the Government of the Republic of Serbia – is what is currently set out in the budgetary texts for science, not more than that, to be paid to scientific institutes regularly and in the quantities in which it is prescribed? Very often it happens that we have what are the direct material costs of the institute, that it is paid by delay, that it is paid partially and that it is paid in insufficient amounts. This is what I have to say, because I come from one scientific institute, I'm a scientist, that scientists are mostly enthusiasts with us, who spend their own personal and family resources because they don't get enough from the state. Let me conclude that at the end of asking this question I realize that if a society wants to move forward, it has to put education and science as a strategic goal. To us from SDPS are education, science, technological development, all that has to do with those people who are supposed to be the leaders of this society, they're educated people. So, in our society, we've had a lot of negative selections and we finally have to make a positive selection so that the state finally knows who it's going to fund. The first ones to be funded are scientists, people from education, people who are educated. It is good for a society to invest in the mind and for those who are the most qualified, because this society is repeatedly returned. We are starting negotiations with the EU and this is the country's strategic goal. Why can't we just look up to EU countries, including an EU machine, which is targeting science, says what priorities should be explored and then put in funds? The investment in science with us is a verse. My question, which I am asking in particular, is the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development in the Government of the Republic of Serbia – can we change the way science is financed? Can we get scientists to pay off everything the state has to offer them? Can we all, together, both the Ministry and the Minister, and the National Assembly, fight to make the budget items for science bigger because it will benefit the state? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21163	Time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21164	Dear colleagues, my question concerns the repeated environmental incident in Obrenovac and I refer it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to get an answer – what has the government done so far and what will it do to prevent such incidents, or to mitigate the adverse consequences of these incidents? The initiative to ask this question came from a conversation with the President of Obrenovac Municipality, who is sincerely concerned, along with the citizens of Obrenovac, for the health of citizens, because this incident, we could see it this morning in the contribution broadcast on our televisions, is really causing a huge concern for the citizens. The president of the municipality tried to organise a meeting a month ago with representatives of the ministry, directors of public enterprises, i.e. Kolubara, Termoelectrica Obrenovac and representatives of the Health Protection Institute. However, such a meeting is not organised because it did not respond to its initiative. That is why I am taking this opportunity and I am taking this opportunity to initiate a new meeting of this committee through my member of the Committee on Environmental Protection of Serbia, to try to resolve this problem at the meeting in the presence of the most competent, above all, resolution minister, director of thermal power plants, representatives of local environmental associations and representatives of local self-government. The idea for us to be present at this meeting, in addition to the Secretary-General, the President of the municipalities of Lazarec, Obrenovac and Kostolac, representatives of the "Kostolac" and "Obrovac" thermal power plants, where these incidents were common. We need answers to questions - are these incidents due to bad technology, technological failures, lack of money, or is it simply the price to pay for the dirty technologies that we come up with electricity? Of course, I am convinced that the government has taken steps and that the Resort Ministry is taking steps along with the thermoelectric power plants. I think that we, as representatives of the people and as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, must also put additional pressure on all those who are most concerned about these problems in order to speed up their resolution processes. In this regard, I believe that the resolution committee, as it did in the previous case, will call a session to which all relevant factors, including the Secretary-General, representatives of local self-government, the directors of the thermal power plants, will be held in order to obtain both the requested information and the proposal for a solution to these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21165	The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, in order for this institute to ask parliamentary questions to make sense, then the government should answer questions. However, these questions turned out to be going into the wind, and the government is doing uncontrollably as it pleases. In fact, Mr. President, my LDP colleagues have repeatedly, over the last few months, asked a very simple and clear question – why does the government violate the Law on Public Enterprises? We referred this question, of course, to the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister in charge of fighting corruption, since the common knowledge is that the generator of corruption is public enterprises and state bodies. This law came into force seven months ago, in December of last year, and these days it ends, as we know, and the anniversary of the government's work, and I think the violation of this law is a real mirror, a real picture of how incompetent and dishonest the government is in implementing reforms, even in the fight against corruption. Mr. President, the government has violated the Law on Public Enterprises by not harmonising the founding act of a company whose company is the founder, and such companies have 30 at the level of the Republic. The government has not implemented a procedure for the removal of the boards of directors of these public enterprises and for the formation of a five-member supervisory board. Only in a few companies did she do it. To make the matter worse, in April, means four months after the adoption and entry into force of this law, which the government has proposed, not another government, is scheduled for the boards to be abolished. However, in April, PTT Serbia chose the opposite of the law by the new Management Board and the new chairman of the Management Board, and this was after the signing of the Brussels Agreement, so it cannot be an excuse that the government was busy signing the Brussels Agreement. The government did not call a competition for the directors of these public enterprises, and was obliged to call them by June 30th. I repeat, she has only called for a few less important companies, such as national parks, the Public Enterprise "Panorama", whatever it is, "Storages", the SDPR, and the only competition has been called for the EPS and the Public Enterprise "The Roads". Check this out, and when he sets out a competition, and when he calls, only in rare cases, means, which is the exception, the members of the Board of Supervisors are once again harshly breaking the law. The latest example, in the official messenger, published on July 5th, the government appointed members of the Supervisory Board, one needed to be of the staff order, and one needed to be an independent member of the five members. One member listed here as independent is Branislav Jovanovic, executive director of the Nis City Construction Directorate, as we all know, a member of the URS and our fellow MP. Why is that? I don't believe the URS has blackmailed you like that. Just look at "The Official Messenger", just a few pages away, you have the appointment of General Consul-General Bozidar Vucurevic, now a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, otherwise former Serbian Radical Party MP. The thing is going round, probably, because there is no competition being held for the director of the PTT Public Enterprise, whose head is Mr. Milan Krkobic, otherwise a member of the PUPS. So, the government is breaking a rough law and there's no excuse, it can't even be drawn to an economic crisis because of it, and it can't be said that it's an excuse... - President Weather. It is time for Mr. President to apply the Law and stop the violation, and we do not need a quick answer office to get what the Rules of Procedure belongs to them. (President: Your time is up. You have five minutes and your time is up. All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21167	Thank you. So I fully agree with you that the government must give answers to the questions that MPs ask. I will personally insist today through the Secretary-General, as we have done many times. I think it is the government's obligation to answer the questions of the MPs, whatever they think I should do, I'm not going into it, but that the answer within 15 days must be fully in agreement with you and I will insist on it. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21168	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my question today will not be contradictory and with subsequent intelligence, as some of my colleagues have asked for a resolution on the conviction of a crime, and making the closest and most intimate relationship with Jovo Kapičić, or asking for more money for science, while voting for that same budget, which has abolished the money for science or rebalancing, which has also collapsed...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21169	Please do not lead the controversy, this is not the time when you are leading the controversy and giving a replica to the question of the MPs of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21170	So my question today will refer to another national shame and shame that this government has given us. I asked the question two months ago – what will the state do, what will the government do, what will the competent ministry do about nine centuries ago from the birth of the Serbian state and church's relatives, Stefan Nemanje? I got an answer from the Ministry of Culture, which I can first of all call shameful. Approximately this is how the minister refers to this and says – as part of the anniversary celebration, the Ministry of Culture will co-finance the Redesigning and Promotions of the site of Zadožina Milos Crnjanski, and at fairs in Leipzig, Thessaloniki and Warsaw will present the summated works of Milos Crnjanski and Petar Petrovic Negos, and as far as Stefan Nemanje is concerned, he will organise a special museum exhibition dedicated to life and the work of Stefan Nemanje with the Serbian Orthodox Church at the end of the year. That's really more than embarrassing. It is even a note that the Ministry of Culture will launch regular competitions to support projects in the field of culture, where institutions that are ready to implement programmes to mark significant anniversary. I ask the Prime Minister and ask the President of the State - does the Ministry of Culture really have the only role to play and that it is ready to implement programmes to mark significant anniversarys if an institution reports to mark such an anniversary or is the job of the Ministry of Culture to preserve national identity, national tradition, culture, religion and our national history? The other day, on July 12th, at Petrovdan, Peter’s church in the medieval race or the present New Pazar celebrated its cross glory. None of the Serbian officials, beginning with the president of the state, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, Prime Minister, Vice-President, Minister, none of the state officials, nor did you, Mr. Parliament Speaker, find it appropriate to go to the glory of the Church of Petrova in Novi Pazar, to give proper attention to Serbian church and state heir Stefan Nemanja in this symbolic way. Nine centuries is not a small period. Stefan Nemanja was born in 1113, and 380 years later, America was discovered. If other nations had such a rich history, they'd look up to her. Last week, it marked the birthday of Serbia's greatest scientist and world scientist, Nikola Tesla. Croatia celebrated that day and mentioned Nikola Tesla. In America, in Philadelphia, a few cities celebrated Nikola Tesla's birthday for five days, and national media in Serbia was mentioned in just one minute that Nikola Tesla was born on that day, and then American series, "Exit" and the story of cattle with "Farme". It's the most embarrassing and embarrassing thing for this country. I ask the Prime Minister, I ask the President of the State, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic – will they, as former great nationalists, bear in mind that nine centuries is a significant anniversary and that 900 years of birth of Stefan Nemanje should be marked, that it is necessary to at least arrange the birthplace of Dejeva and at least make the route towards that place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21171	The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. In addition to her, he was reported in the system and Mr Sinisa Lazic and MP Miodrag Lint, so that it would not be later that I had not given someone the opportunity to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21172	Dear President of the National Assembly, fellow MPs, I have three questions that I would like to refer to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mr. Knezevic. The first question concerns the deadline for submission of requests for the exercise of the right to basic incentives in plant production in 2013. As we know, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development on 30 January this year. This law defines the types of incentives, means of use and conditions for the exercise of the right to incentives in agriculture and rural development. Sublaws are closer to the deadlines and procedures for the registration of commercial agricultural holdings for these incentives. This year, the renewal of the agricultural production structure, as well as the renewal of the registration of agricultural holdings, provided that no small number of agricultural producers had completed the renewal of the registration, but had not received accurate information that it was necessary again within a certain deadline, more precisely by 30 June, to submit a new application, i.e. the new requirements for the exercise of the right to basic incentives in plant production in 2013. My question for the minister is – can the problem arise by paying the subsidies this year according to the data mentioned in the renewal of the registration, as the registration structure of agricultural production was also reported during the renewal of the registration, or - could an additional period be set for the submission of applications, in fact, the copy of already registered data? The second question I refer to Minister Knezevic concerns non-commercial family agricultural holdings. Article 6 The Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development found that the minister was closer to prescribing types of incentives and non-commercial agricultural land. Since many agricultural holdings are registered as non-commercial, which is mainly small and less wealthy households, which mainly live on agricultural production, my question is – did the Minister provide for incentives for sublegal acts for these holdings and what kind of incentives? The third question, which I also refer to Minister Knezevic, concerns the production and export of raspberries. It recently released data that Serbia is no longer a leader in the production and export of raspberries and that the leadership position this year has taken over Poland. According to the Chamber of Commerce, a total of 70,320 tonnes of raspberries were produced in Serbia in 2012, and the export revenues amounted to $180m. The production of raspberries in Serbia in 2012 was lower by about 20,000 tonnes compared to earlier, and estimates are that this year the production of raspberries will be even lower, even by half compared to 2012. The conclusion from the recently held 50th Jubilee Malinari Jubilee Group in Brankovina near Valjev was that the situation was due to insufficient co-operation between producers, refrigerators and exporters, as well as insufficient support from the state in the form of aid for overcoming the effects of drought. Starting from the above, and considering that raspberries, after sugar, are our most important, i.e. A strategic export agricultural product, whose exports have so far provided significant foreign exchange income, my question is – is it also what does the Ministry intend to do to stop the reduction in the production and export of raspberries and to what extent does it intend to stimulate the expansion of this production and return to Serbia's recent leadership position on the market of these products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21173	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21174	Thank you. I'd like to ask, first of all, questions concerning agriculture. I think it overlaps with several ministries, so the issue also concerns the Ministry of Trade, both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. First, what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do about the price of wheat, if we know that the market price at this point is far below the producer price and if we look at the fact that last year's drought halved 50% or 60% of income, that this year we have a price that cannot cover costs? In doing so, we know that subsidies are only paid for one day. The regressed fuel regulation runs until June 15th, with announcements that it will extend until July 15th. In doing so, people cannot buy that much fuel and store it in one place. In this way, the black market and the resale of oil derivatives can be stimulated. Why do we not have, as in the Republic of Croatia, a blue diesel regulation that would be available during 365 days to agricultural producers? What about the subsidies in livestock, if we know that the budget rebalances, the agriculture ministry's budget is reduced? From what state will they honor these obligations? The second part, which also refers to agriculture – what are the motives and why are the directors in veterinary institutes, callifiers and all those other institutions where they worked and, in doing so, very successful, had positive results, and brought people to those places against the law that do not meet both the basic legal conditions and have some qualifications that are necessary for the exercise of such a duty? What's this about? Is this all in accordance with the law and is it part of a party procedure or does it want to improve the system in a better direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21175	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask two questions to the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration. First it's war crimes. In fact, 15 days ago, the Croatian Ministry of Justice provided a list of 1.587 persons suspected, accused or convicted of war crimes in Croatia. It is already the third list the Croatian side delivers to the Serbian side. The first list was delivered in 2010, three years ago. That list also has 1.534 names. Then, in January 2011, a second list with 1.549 names was submitted. Between the first and second lists of suspects, defendants and convicted persons increased by 15, compared to January 2011, compared to this latest 15 days ago, the number of suspects, defendants and convicted persons increased by 28. Now 300,000 Serbs who have been expelled from Croatia are waiting to finally resolve the issue of their freedom of movement and finally stop manipulating those lists. What happened? A few days ago in the village of Trpinj, Croatian special forces fell in the morning, at half seven, it was a few kilometers from Vukovar, with phantoms on their heads, arrested 12 Serbs, closed all exits and entered the village. People who were not in those houses went to work, arrested for alleged crimes against the Croatian civilian population in 1991 in Vukovar. What the paradox is in all this is, when a check of the 12 Serbs arrested was carried out, none of these Serbs are on the list that Croatia provided symbolically on July 1st, when it became an EU member. Now imagine, 10 days later, 12 Serbs are arrested and none are on the list of 1,577 names. How can 300,000 Serbs, one of whom lived in Krajina between 1991 and 1995, feel secure when 10 days after the latest list 12 Serbs are arrested and none of them are on the list of suspects, accused and convicted persons? Croatia, unfortunately, has been using the list mechanism for 18 years as a means to intimidate refugees and exiled Serbs, who cannot return to their homes, even those who want to go to Croatia to solve their property and other issues do not dare, as they fear that after the third or fourth departure they will be detained and imprisoned on various charges. What else is the problem? We have this list of 1,577 persons for war crimes. What happened to Mr. Mila Dakic, an 83-year-old man who in May 2011 checked if he was on that list? He received confirmation from our ministry that he was not on the Croatian list of suspects, accused and convicted persons for war crimes. He went to a scientific meeting in Banja Luka in May 2011. On his return, he was arrested on Raca, transferred to Sarajevo, and in August 2011, on the basis of the Croatian Interpol warrant, he was transferred to Zagreb and is tried there. When we asked how it was possible that this man was arrested, they said – no, he is not on this list of suspects, convicted and accused of war crimes, he was convicted of a felony inciting murder. This means that if 1.577 Serbs receive confirmation that they are not on the war crimes list, no one guarantees them when they go to Croatia, or any third country, that they will be arrested and that they will be told – no, you are not arrested for war crimes, you are charged with rape, inciting murder, crimes of theft, etc. We ask that the issue of war crimes and other serious crimes finally be cleared. We advocate that anyone who committed war crimes and serious crimes must be processed, but lists cannot be used to intimidate people and create general uncertainty. In that sense, we believe that the time has come, it is my question to the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration of the Republic of Serbia, to launch a serious dialogue with the Croatian side, to seek the support of the European Union and other international organisations, to make one agreement. Under the agreement, it should be tried according to the place of residence. (President: Time. ) The other part of the agreement is that one side gives each other objects and evidence of who committed war crimes. This means, if Croatia has evidence, that evidence may also be delivered to our ministry, our Ministry of Justice will judge this man. If proven not to be on the list, not guilty, he will be removed from the list and Serbia will guarantee his freedom of movement. (President: Thank you, Mr. Linta, five minutes and 26 seconds. ) Another question of mine is, I apologize, that the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration also launched a dialogue on Mr. Mina Dakic, a man who is 83 years old, 28 witnesses were heard, no one blamed him for inciting murder, that the process in Croatia finally ends in one fair and legal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21177	Thank you, Mr. Linta. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. We shall move on to an explanation of the reasons for calling the sitting within a shorter period than the time limit set in Article 86. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in request of 141 MP for the maintenance of an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of the motions of Mr Velimir Ilic, the Minister of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, I have also called for today's session to be attended by Zoran Krajovic, the Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute and Milan Kuzmanovic Kostić, the Assistant Director of the Republic Geodetic Institute. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You have been presented the minutes of the Second Special Session in 2013, the Third Session of the First Regular Session in 2013 on the work of the National Assembly in Dan to answer parliamentary questions and the Third Special Sessions in 2013. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the objections are delivered in writing to the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the session of the National Assembly at which the minutes are adopted. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – no one, with abstentions, voted 33 out of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26 April 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21 and 22 May 2013. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one with abstention – has voted 20 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21 and 22 May 2013. I am putting to the vote the minutes on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic, held on 30 May 2013. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Day to answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question, held on 30 May 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26 June 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26 June 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, which was convened at the request of 141 MP, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the ninth extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on State Crossover and Catastro, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Law on Infringements, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 4. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who has been filed by the State's chief prosecutor; 5. Proposal to elect a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, which was submitted by the President of the Republic. National MP Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) of Article 192(2) of Article 192(3) of Article 201(2) and Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: a draft law on infringements, a motion for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judicial office, a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, a proposal for a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee. Does the MP Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – no one, with abstention – voted 18 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. We move to the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on State Promenade and Cartaster You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, on which you received details in the material. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Time and Catastrophe. Does the Proposer's representative, Mr Velimir Ilic, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in parliament today to give a brief introduction on a law that is long expected to appear in parliament and which has been the subject of long debates because the Geodetic Institute of Serbia is an extremely important state institution and is particularly important now that the documents and everything else for Serbia's entry into the EU are adapted. We have to regulate this law of the RGZ that has had problems for years, and that's why you have before you the law on amendments to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro. You know that many years ago, there have been major problems, and there have been delays in work, because people who are employed in the RGZ, the geometry, have asked their profession to be respected and to be regulated by a new law. There are many services of great importance for the state, both the police and the tax administration and everything else, but this with the geometry was not in order and there were more problems. You know that the World Bank has repeatedly intervened with additional funds and in a way that can be regulated. Geometers and officials working with them are doing an extremely important job that is important for Serbia, and as far as licensing is concerned, building large infrastructure facilities, investing in Serbia, are constantly on the ground, their workplace is retail, and have been conducted for years as civil servants, as officials, as ordinary counter workers in all activities. This profession has begun to lose, and there are fewer and fewer geometrys with experience that know how to do these jobs, do them, and the catastre has become always a very big problem in the country when some problems arise. We talked and agreed and agreed with the unions that this could be talked about and that the big crowds on the counters, that the big waiting procedure would be reduced, etc. In order to do that, we need to get them more and more involved to be outside the office, to be on the ground, and they're very often on the ground from their offices and up to 50 and 60 km, without being able to get up to 50 kilometers of living and a warm meal and anything and they're being run like regular counter clerks. They can't survive like that and we have big problems with them. Of course, there have been a lot of problems, to be open, and a lot of corrupters have been reporting for years, to train some of the objects to come before in the procedure, etc. Now it's our turn, and we've agreed on that at our meetings together that we've multiple times had to settle all of this with one law that's in front of you right now. We want to help all of you, and that's why we passed this law, so that we have fewer unsolicited objects, fewer wild objects, and that these services become the most involved in their work. Therefore, I am asking all parliamentary groups to support this law, which was made years ago, and it was constantly waiting for it to come to parliament, and it was always the same topic. All parties in power insisted that the issue be resolved and resolved so that it could function normally. There have been extremely many interventions beyond the various world institutions. The World Bank is offering one loan for the construction of a catastra at Serbia's level as a very important institution and is asking to be done in the book of wildly-made buildings. They are not so motivated to do so because of the problems that have arisen and we need to motivate them to do more and to produce better results. Not to tell you a long story, you know it well, in every city there's a cadastre and urbanism problem. We're changing the laws, but the problem stays the same all the time, and now we're going to fix the cadastre, to arrange the Republic Geodetic Institute, to reach agreements, and then to ask for results from them. As we have a problem with urbanism in every city, we can pass laws, we can promise, we can make quick answers offices, do everything, but if that counter-office officer in a town won't issue a permit effectively, everything we do in parliament falls into the water. We need to see what that's about to do, why it's not efficient and why it doesn't do its job and why objects build up, etc. We now have a chance to put it in order. You know that in the previous three, four governments the same problem was, the same laws were offered, they were always delayed, but here at the EU threshold we must do this institution according to European criteria. We need to understand that the geometry, that the official who performs the most responsible state affairs must be in some status that is here, you saw here in the law regulated. In the crowd, it won't be any bigger money, and that's true. Now, they're also charging it, over overtime, some fees, because you couldn't hold a geometer with 30 or 40,000 dinars, which should have, they're always writing him some hours, and so we don't have any problems, we want to say that it's going to be regulated legally and that there are no deviations besides that. It's the same resources in the crowd, but that clerk to someone that doesn't, it's subject to everything and everything, and this way when the law is settled, we know exactly what his legal obligation is and what he has to do for the counterservice to do for this country. With this, we will achieve a much more efficient state administration and the problems we have, because you know that the external investor is making observations and the most remarks have come to the RGZ, the unresolved issue of property in Serbia, because soon your laws will come to order and be here in parliament and that we can do better and more effectively. I'd like to open up a proper discussion, discuss this problem seriously and find the best solutions. Of course, nothing is ideal. You can fix something through some amendments, if you don't think it's right that it's not good, we expect it. Any amendment that will regulate, improve the situation in the RGZ, will be accepted. Our goal today is to make a law that will be good and will deliver results. If we make a law that won't yield results, then there's no point in even discussing it, nor bringing it, etc. So I ask you to take this matter seriously today, to talk about it, and to accept this law and make it the best it can be at this point, because it's a matter that's arranged in every normal state and in Europe. We don't need to invent anything, just to put it in order as others have introduced it. There is no policy here, there is no politicisation, here is the goal of both the authorities and the opposition to settle this issue as well as to give every employee in the institution, which is very important for Serbia, to motivate them to work, not to talk constantly that we have a lot of objects, that it is a property of corruption, that certain funds are given, that the items are taken into consideration, etc. In this way, we will arrange, as far as possible, this institution that is very important to the state and therefore I ask you to help us with that. I would be so glad to answer your questions, to discuss this issue, not to come here and politicize a serious topic that is very important for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21179	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21180	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Katastre. Of course, as Mr. Minister said, it is a serious problem, and that is exactly how each of us should approach it. I personally believe, as well as the SPO-DHSS parliamentary group, that sometimes it is better not to go in the direction of changes and additions, unless you are sure that they will give as good and quality solutions as possible, and that is probably the goal of all of us. Of course, you asked here, you said we should go out and help you out, so everything I say, take it highly well-intentioned, not only as a criticism for criticism, as you understood when we discussed that special law on special conditions for enrolment of property rights on illegally built objects. I know that the proposer's intention was good, and here we can say that we need to protect the employee, the entire geodetic profession. I'm going to keep that intention at a level of conjecture, because it's very difficult to spot it from the proposed changes and additions. I know, too, Minister, that it wasn't you who wrote the alterations and supplements, but I'm not sure if you've read them completely, and if you've read them, did you fully understand them? Of course, I'll try to take a turn. It is certain that this matter should be deprived of every policy, and of course, in most of my presentations, I am merely considering the expertise, so I will do it this time. So, let me take some turns. Namely, this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster proposes that some new members be added at its very beginning, so it is foreseen as new members – Article 10a, Article 10b and Article 10v, which will address the issue of executive jobs in the Republic Geodetic Office, the salaries of the state officials of the geodetic profession in the Bureau, the questions of staffing officials, which the Government is putting into place in the Bureau, and the pre-departmentation, something more detailed about these three members, I will certainly detail them when the debate is in particular, I need to present some of the following facts that you have to bear in mind here. In this respect, the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro clearly provides in its Article 1 a definition relating to the subject matter which regulates this matter, thus regulating the professional affairs, the affairs of the state administration relating to state diameter, the cataster of immovableity, the cadastre of water, basic geodetic works, the address register, topographic and cartographic activity of the assessment of the value of immovableity, the geodetic and catastrian information system and the national infrastructure of geospace data and geodetic works in engineering and technical areas. So, Mr. Ilic, I think it's clear to the laymen that there's no need for one of these serious laws, which, for its subject, has a regulation of the matter of the state diameter, and the catastras to solve issues that I think they're trying to force through with these changes and additions. I don't know if the creators of these changes and the additions looked at a little parallel-law practice, if they are, then they know that in that same parallel-law practice and those European countries, which you have just called upon, and our goal is to be one of them, then something like this could have noticed that absolutely nothing like that ever exists, nor will there ever be in the future. If we are talking about enforcement and jobs in the Republic Geodetic Institute, then it is clear that they can only be regulated by the existing law. We also have some positive legal regulations that are in force, which are in force, which is the Law on State Officials, which in its Article 1 and Article 2 provides for the possibility that the individual rights and responsibilities of State Secretarys in certain state bodies may, as explicitly stated there, be particularly regulated and different if this arises from the nature of their work. Of course, this will not mean that such issues can be regulated by any law, which in its complexity, which is because of complexity, and matter is certainly more important than this law to which changes and complementarity are sought. At the very least, I have to call it "nebulose", which is primarily viewed as a prelude to the calling of state officials of the geodetic profession on executive jobs in the Office with quoted provisions of the Law on Higher Education and I think it's something that represents such a total legal nonsension and represents everything that is really the opposite of what is actually known by those who are superficially familiar with this matter, is a complete paradox. With regard to Article 10a, which is newly proposed by these amendments and additions, it is actually an unnatural mixture, an artificial creation, and the already mentioned Law on Civil Service Officers and some hidden special law, so that the time of the provisions of the Law on Civil Servants will apply, in fact, to the provisions of this Act, if it is adopted, and I hope that it will not be adopted in this form, and we will help you with our amendments not to be, and the hour will be subject to some of the provisions of the Law on State Officials. When we talk the same thing about these amendments and the additions to the salaries of the state officials of the geodetic profession at the Bureau, which would be regulated by the newly proposed Article 10b, I think it is certainly the greatest absurd and worst provision that could be found in such a proposal on amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastra. I'll explain why I consider it that way. Namely, if someone states that the state officials of the geodetic profession at the Bureau have the right to do so on the basic salary that is calculated by multiplying the base by the coefficient, and established in accordance with the laws that are closer to the salaries of civil servants, then increasing the additional coefficient according to this law, be careful, in the range of three to 50% of the previously determined coefficient, depending on the calling, special conditions of work, responsibility, complexity of business, scale, weight and nature of business, as well as basic salaries of the state officials of the geodetic profession, where the additional coefficient of each state official determines, what is particularly interesting, so I must say again, it determines by the director of the Institute, and at least as if that Republica geodetic institution is his personal property or whatever you want, his private firm. I think I've said enough about this article, and I've put concrete solutions and concrete proposals in the form of amendments that have countless numbers. As for the partocratic staffing of officials appointed by the Government in office, this is, of course, seen in the newly proposed Article 10v, and when we read this new member of the 10v which says that the previous members, also newly proposed, 10a and 10b, do not apply to their majestys, i.e. and, for God's sake, the civil servants that the government puts in their position. So, while they are civil servants, like all other civil servants, they have special working conditions because of their political status, I would not be surprised to forget that they have some special monetary incomes, just because they are politically delegated by the government. If you add all of this further references to the explanation of individual institutes, as well as the individual solutions that the promoter has just offered, and as regards everything I have already said in advance, then we come to the fact that the madness of these changes and additions, above all, I am still talking about the newly proposed members, is completely visible. Furthermore, although the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastra came out almost at the same time as the Law on Planning and Construction, and it has been done for over three years, it means both laws, now as if someone were telling us that a pothole still has a hole, so it is said – the Law on Planning and Construction, a conversion of the right to use property on immovable property, registration by request and registration by official duty, has been prescribed, leading to a multiple increase in the number of cases. As if we didn't know that increasing the number of objects, it exists every day. I will now specify something that Mr Ilic stated in the reasons for the adoption of the law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. So, Mr. Ilic, here in the debate, and also in the bill that unfortunately was passed, you said. The implementation of this law does not require financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, secondly, the simplification of administrative procedures carried out in the process of exercising the right to enter property on illegally built buildings, the reduction of the number of evidence supplied to other special bodies and organisations, which also means a reduction of the time needed to achieve this right. Third, the application of this law will create no costs for citizens, i.e. no costs for the economy will be incurred. This law creates, in accordance with the prescribed jurisdiction, the possibility of hiring new operators, thus enabling competition to be placed on the market. In the context of all of this, it is not clear to me whether your ministry will be the one to remove and provide all those funds for those adding coefficients in the range of three to 50% of the previously increased salary coefficient of every civil servant, or perhaps, instead of you, it will do so to your government colleague, who responds to the name and name Mladjan Dinkic, it is only clear to me, so I would ask you to explain it to me. It is also an interesting fact, which is also a matter of one, least of all, the lack of familiarity with labour legislation. I also have to point out, unfortunately, because it is claimed that the Law on Civil Service Officers, which has been arranged to call civil servants and promote them in all state bodies, is not appropriate. I don't know who's estimating it. Give us a definition of the appropriateness, so we can get to know each other. So it's not adequate. Employees of geodetic professions in the Republic Geodetic Institute, and he is not adequate, because the proposer says he is not adequate, and we all need to agree, nod, and so be it. Mr. Minister, maybe we all live in error here, because we may not actually see what you wanted to achieve, or we don't actually see the far-reachingness of this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, where, among other things, the following is said – this way provides human stability and a positive motivation for an increased volume of work, which now does not exist. Mr. Ilic, I have to say here in this place that you've just increased the amount of work, precisely because of the law you've proposed, and especially that shameful law on special conditions of entry of property rights on illegally built buildings, so I'm going to continue, because the existing pay system is not disturbingly employed for work and, in fact, by adding to the salary, the area for corruption is eliminated. I think if we fight corruption in this way, and you're in your exposure to just fighting corruption and mentioning it, I'm afraid that this corruption will eat us very quickly. First, the cadastre, and then the employees of the catastro, the entire geodetic profession, and then all of us. With regard to Article 2, it is only clear that the intention is to create space for a future change, because as the government is changing, so as ministers change, we will again be pushed, all of which, of course, in one disguised form, some new legal union, but that is nothing strange, so that I call the change of the ministry, when there is a future government, when it is a future minister, we can expect again. It is nothing new - the ministers come, pass, change the name of their ministry etc. I don't know why you don't put a simple formulation there and end up with the problems you're having. Put in, say, a formulation -- the competent ministry, the dot, and break this vicious circle nicely, and not now we're going to erase the spatial planning because the former minister was also Minister of Spatial Planning and Building. You're the building minister, some of you will add something again, and then we'll change again, so there won't be the building ministry, etc., but, well. We're used to unlimited changes and additions, alterations and additions and whatever you want. Not only this problem, but almost all the problems I have seen in these amendments and the addition of this bill, I have put in the form of an amendment, as I have stated. There's a lot of them. As far as Article 3 is concerned, I honestly think you've been joking around here with us, and I expect you to deny me. In this Article 3, nothing is clear to me. I know that a member of the 12th basic law regulates the performance of geodetic works, and that is clear to me, since it is high-level, responsible jobs, but with regard to adding new points and points 4, and points 6, I think that this is not normal for ordinary jobs, and it can be said that these are not ordinary jobs in the geodetic profession, but can be regarded as secondary jobs in the geodetic profession, such as the creation of geodetic bases in engineering and technical areas, for which no major project is produced, the development of geodetic marking projects in urban planning, the realization of geodetic marking projects in the area of urban planning. Look, you're looking for a solution like this from the Republic Geodetic Institute? Mr. Ilic, I guess it's normal and anyone with any common sense is clear that if a geodetic organization can do jobs and these work on the main project, it may also be able to do some of the little things and do some of the things that are less complex. I also find Article 4 very interesting and very inspiring. Namely, it determines that a licence can be issued to a geodetic organisation although it does not have an employee with an appropriate licence. It's enough to have employed geodetic professions. Of course, there was no way around the question of a legal non-sensus in terms of the provision that the legal person, who is the beneficiary of the budget, could be granted a licence to the public undertaking for the work and works of Article 12 of this law, but only for your own needs and that's where you put the point. I don't know why, so I'd like you to explain that to me. This member also provides for a higher education institution that implements a student programme in the scientific and professional field of geodetic engineering. I don't really understand anything here. Honestly, I don't know what's worse than worse. First, whether the creation of technical documentation and professional supervision of the performance of geodetic works, for which the main project is envisaged and the implementation of geodetic works in the maintenance of the building blocks and the maintenance of the water cadastras, is entrusted with the establishment of a scientific programme or is worse that these same jobs are simply entrusted to some undefined group of students and professors. For the absurd to be greater, neither are they grouped, nor is this institution identified as neither an institute nor an expert institution. As for Article 5, which is scheduled to be deleted in Article 17, paragraph 7, I hope it is only a mere error of the promoter and the sauce he may immediately remove. Article 7 of the amendment amends Article 17 which, in this form, finds me in such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Timer and Catastrophe fascinates me. I don't know what the objective of changing this member was. Did it go in the direction of making a member with the highest number of attitudes known to any law? I don't really know what his motive is. I kind of have some kind of modest knowledge of nomotechnical activity. You know, it's a rule-making science, but for that very reason I won't allow myself to engage in any further discussion or comment. Since I see my time running out, fortunately for you, and my grief, of course, Mr. Ilic, all of what I said can be understood however you want. Last time you saw it as criticism for criticism. I've made amendments this time. I've proposed a solution to the amendments. You said we should approach as a serious problem. I approach every problem as a serious problem, and I need all these suggestions that I've told you to respect as well-intentioned, because they are. When I asked you last time to make a regulation, especially if you are engaged in changes and supplements, always consult or at least ask for help someone who is a longtime acquaintance of this matter, so I hope that the names mentioned when we discussed the last of your laws, which is Dr. Zoran Birovljevic and Mr. Dušica Birovljevic, you have not forgotten, and I hope that these names will be very well remembered, because it will certainly help you to defend any law without any shame in the future. I have already noted that in order to make a contribution, and in order for you not to experience it as a criticism for criticism and not to be some little one who only criticises, I have heard such remarks in my account, I have submitted amendments. In themselves, they represent a solution. It's enough to look at them. They must be better than these changes and additions, at least in this form in which they are in the bill of law you're trying to defend today, but you won't succeed. It will be enough for you to read the amendments that I have submitted with due attention and then I sincerely hope that the whole matter of both the national diameter and the catastra, but everything that has to do with it and everything that needs to be the subject of this one law will be much clearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21181	Thank you. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21182	For me, it is not the first time in this House that Miss Batic has lectured her genius in the judiciary. I'm thrilled and I listen to you very carefully. I'm glad you know the job of the geometer, and the engineer, and the design and everything. Well done. No law is right for you. No lawyer who does this to you is any good. You and the legislation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which gives consent and makes corrections, are not good. There's nothing wrong with you. I'm not a lawyer, I'm an engineer, and I'm an expert, but I listen to lawyers who do this other part. There's a lot of your teachers working on that problem. I'm glad people cooperate, work, make suggestions. We have entire teams of people working, who need to be satisfied, and there are some unions, collectives, workers, and with everyone we need to find some compromises. Don't be like that. You're a young man. Don't be so bad. It's impossible for one law to go through all the procedures, come to the government and say nothing's wrong. You guys mess him up here. And every law like that. This country has to live. Please, come on, you make the bill, here, bring it. In the future, whenever we make a law, here I will give you the opportunity to make the law and to read your genius law, and to come and say, here I am to defend the law, the best in the world. Right? I greatly respect and respect you and always listen to you. But don't do anything wrong. If something's wrong, we'll fix it. But it's very ugly for me because of the people who worked, I didn't work, I repeat, I don't do law, but don't always do that, and whenever any law comes, here's the law on planning and construction, for the other day of the Law on Legalization, please give your bill. I'd like to read it. I'd be glad to have you at my place to study it well. Thank you very much. Thank you for some advice, but don't let anything go wrong, at least give me a little commendation. There's a line that's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21183	Thank you. Olga Batic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21184	Mr. Ilic, thank you so much for your constructiveity. You'll get the laws, so I'll write them, about planning and building, ready, I can give it to you tomorrow. If you'd consulted me on this one, you'd be in a much better quality text. I'm talking to some experts, I'm talking to some of the same professors, so they're telling me something's wrong, I'm not a geodeist, I'm a lawyer, so it's mine to deal with laws like this, and what I don't know, I'm asking more professionally than I am, it's no shame. I have to say, I even praised you, I don't know how you didn't notice. I arrived in my explanation, given that I had 20 minutes to look back at all a few members, so you should see it as commendation, not as criticism. I've put in 20 amendments, and that's commendation, not criticism, and that's where you have solutions. I already told you. Read them, and it would be my pleasure to offer you some really quality law. Surely, this is where you will defend him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21185	Thank you very much. National MP Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21186	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, Mr. Directors of the Republic Geodetic Institute, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Ministers and Cataster, are in front of the MPs and represent the proposal that the relevant provisions of the existing law comply with the circumstances that occurred after the adoption of the basic text, in order to improve the work of the Republic of Geodetic Office, as an institution of crucial importance for geospace but also the economic system of this country. This is very important, as a definition. Namely, the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit and the submission of all pending pending pending requests for the legalisation of unlawfully built buildings in the jurisdiction of the Institute has been adopted. The existing amount of work that found that institution probably quadrupled, not to mention increased. All of this should include the fact that an additional period of one year has been left to citizens, that from the day of entry into force of the Law, they are required to apply for the registration of property rights, so that new items should be expected. That's what I was talking about when we passed a Lex specialis law on the right to enter property on illegally built buildings, which were about 1,300,000 in the country. According to some estimates we're dealing with now, 650,000 to 680,000 have been filed so far, which means slightly above half. This law creates continuity in further regulation of legal relations, especially on earth. The next law on legalisation, which should come out very quickly, and after that the law on planning and construction, they are practically together to come out, would be surrounded by the complete problem that is being created. That's why there's no need to create a price delusion. There's nothing you can do about it. There must be a price, if there's anything we want to achieve, and we want to. In the light of the above, the proposed amendments would regulate the issue of the establishment of official titles specific to this institution. The appropriate school prepares and work experience, as well as how to determine their salaries, as a stimulant for increased labour volume. The public interest in this is multiple, given that the record of immovableities, the rights on them, the primary prerequisite for the exercise of property rights, and thus the protection of investment, which our country currently needs over. In addition, the amendments to the rules that followed in the meantime require the adoption of the law to comply with the relevant provisions of these regulations. Otherwise, there was a dilemma here, whether there was going to be a new law, or just a supplement. It's only for supplementation. At the same time, conditions for the performance of geodetic organisations have been facilitated, so that persons who have so far failed to meet the formal conditions for performing geodetic activity, whose professional training and long-term work experience justify it, are allowed to perform the geodetic tasks of a minor degree of complexity. This is very important. More precisely, the duties and responsibilities of the person performing geodetic work and the reduced measures for violations of these duties are regulated, by the fact that it is an extremely restrictive measure of withdrawal of the licence, foresees a serious violation of the duty, are replaced by a suspension of the licence for three months to three years, which we consider appropriate. The law also specified tax provisions. For the use of public services provided by the Republic of Geodetic Institute, the termological alignment with the relevant provisions of the Budgetary System Act, which is the compensation for one service provided by public authorities, has been primarily defined by the concept of tax, while the wording "refund" means the fees paid by the user for the use of goods in public property, natural resources and goods in general use. Also, harmonisation has been carried out with the appropriate provision that only one tax can be prescribed for one public service. A circle of persons who have been released from taxi payments has been extended, so payments have been released to persons who apply for a copy of the Institute's records, in order to exercise their rights in the field of social protection and to ensure family care, etc. Also, persons who are aware of the diameter data have been released, the catastra is being performed in the premises of the Office for Real Estates, which we consider to be good, given the importance that these data have in legal traffic. However, we do not consider it a good and desirable provision by which the amount of compensation is governed by the sublaw laid down by the Director of the Republic Geodetic Office. This above all, for the reasons that the amount of compensation until then was determined by the Government as a collegiate body, which we consider to be our justification, because for several parties different factors affecting the level of the tax, which is the fee for public conditions, can be considered. In a proposed way, the Republic Geodetic Institute could, without any legal restriction, raise the level of tax at its own discretion whenever it finds it appropriate. In addition, such a solution is contrary to the provisions of Article 17, paragraph 6. Budgetary system law. We therefore intervened in that part with the appropriate amendment. As a result of the frequent irregularities in the issue of cartographic publications, inspection supervision was introduced. Violent penalties for non-compliance with those provisions are prescribed in that part. Finally, we believe that this law should be supported in order to enable officials of the Republic Geodesy Institute to generate additional motivation for existing work, which is of great importance for the whole country and is not small and time-limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21187	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21188	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will also, Mr. Ili will have some criticism. I hope I won't be exposed to this kind of barbaric fire as my colleague Batic just moments ago. In fact, I agree with you that it's a very important interest in geodetics and geometry. Some of the great figures of world history were geometry, George Washington, I think. It has created many countries, but I'm not sure that a single country has tried to solve the problems it has in that area in this way. It is clear that public services in Serbia, the Catastrian Service, all other systems that are in some way important or related to public records, public systems, need a thorough reform, and LDP has been behind it for years. However, I guess that, firstly, even as far as we're concerned, involves fundamental changes in the organisation model, a degree of efficiency, before that, changes in those parts of the state administration that directly depend on systems as to what the system of the Republic Geodetic Institute is, and only then solve the issue of pay coefficients. In this form, the LDP will not be able to vote in favour of the bill you put before this Assembly. We've submitted some amendments. We'll see if you respond positively to them. I expected in your explanation, Mr. Ilic, much more information on what the real state of the Republic Geodetic Institute is. When you come or when you come to this Parliament with the expectation that the National Assembly allows authority, in this particular case, of the Director of the Republic Geodetic Service, that, by the very unconventional criteria that you set out in the law, increases the coefficient of employees in the state administration in the range between three and 50%, then I think that the elemental obligation that you have as a member of the Government, as a minister, as a representative of the ruling coalition, is to tell us - and what are the profits in the Republic Geodetic Office now? This obligation, Mr Ilic, is especially in the situation where last week's budget rebalancing practically frozen public sector salaries and pensions in Serbia. You allowed an increase of 0.5%, which in real life is practically the same as freezing. It is essentially a reduction in wages due to the double-digit or almost double-digit inflation Serbia will have this year. In such a situation you, Mr. Ilic, come to parliament and ask for the authority of the Republic Geodetic Institute, to increase the coefficients in the range, I repeat, between three and 50% for employees and for a very wide range of employees. Technically, it's not a violation of that obligation you set up by the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Law. In the essential sense, of course it is. The salary will be higher in a number of cases, so up to 50%. Since you, Mr. Ilic, haven't told me what the average salary is at the Republic Geodetic Institute, that's what I'm going to say. That data is public in this country. The last information I have is about the state of affairs of December 2012. We are not opposed to the basic idea that these people must have serious or much higher incomes, but if you are going this way, then first you, Mr. Ilic, and much more leaders of your parties, or those who run the ruling coalition, especially in these days when a reconstruction is announced, say what kind of state administration model you want, how many people you want in the state administration, what are your priorities, what is important to you. Then we'll be able to have a comprehensive solution, not a solution like this. How will those civil servants or government employees feel, Mr. Ilic, in the broadest sense of the word, when you keep your salary at the same level or at a minimum increase of 0.5% in some parts and increase your salaries to 50%? First, tell us how many people will be able to raise wages like this, what percent of that number of employees in the Republic Geodetic Institute? At this moment, there are 2,750 civil servants and deputies in the Republic Geodetic Institute, even according to the systematization of jobs. How many, however, do people actually work for the Republic Geodetic Institute, Mr. Ilic? I'd say 2,715, predicted by systematicization, 2,370 is employed indefinitely, 195 at a certain time and 659 people on a work contract. It's summed up to over 3,000 people. I understand the size of the job has been increased. It's not the people of the Republic Geodetic Institute. It was also this government, which, by its amendments to the law, which were ad walk, on the neck of the nose, actually produced this problem. You say that in a correct way in reasoning, in conversion, in this disaster of the conversion that was introduced by law, then in legalization problems, in the fact that at this point, regardless of what you are announcing, the final adoption of the new law, we actually have an unregulated field or legalisation area of more than a million objects, etc. So what are the salaries at this point in the Republic Geodetic Institute? According to this proposal, which you set up, considering the job of a person who graduated from high school is 45,837 dinars, at least that much in December. You'll say if that changes in the meantime. That's not a lot of money, of course. It's a little money in a country like this. But, I'm sorry, Mr. Ilic, that's the basic salary of a school teacher. Professors are the people who graduated from college. I believe you think as much as I do that they are as important to this country, at least as much as the recommendations of the Republic Geodetic Institute. The salary of a co-worker, which is the people who graduated from college at the very beginning of their career, is something over 52,000 dinars. On that salary, you're looking for an increase in the coefficient. If there's a 50% increase on that, what's that salary going to be, Mr. Ilic, at the Republic Geodetic Institute? Will it be 70,000? Such people, an associate, have 572, more than a fifth of the total number of employees. Let's move on. Independent advisors, 76,000, senior advisor at the Republic Geodetic Institute, and there are 214, their current salary is 105,351 dinar. The bill that you've passed, let's say, the senior advisors are not excluded from the possibility of increasing their coefficient in this way. Then will they have a salary of up to 150,000? Will he have a higher salary than you, Mr. Ilic? You're the Minister of Government. That you set different criteria for this zoom range, so maybe we have an understanding. But you cited as criteria the complexity of the business, etc. These are the criteria, above all from the Law on civil servants, which will benefit those who are now in a higher position, i.e. the enforcement post, who have even now a higher salary. When you raise their coefficient, then their increase will be four, five times larger than the increase of these people who are the referents and who are basically doing the job that you were talking about at the very beginning. You can make a political decision that you want to have 200 people on the table and a few thousand dinars in this system, but then tell it to other parts of the state service. That's fair, that's a political attitude. The ruling coalition has the right to do so, but then it needs to be said openly. Why is the question of how many people are applied to the system of the Republic Geodetic Institute? This is important because of the assessment of whether additional money is needed or not. If it's 50, 60, 70% of people, then I'm afraid it'll take extra money. We are at the proposal of your ruling coalition, or you adopted the budget rebalance last week and defined the amount of funds for the Republic Geodetic Institute. He's four billion and 280 million dinars. Salaries, additions, employee fees and contributions to the employer's burden, all that goes with pay, are about two billion and 800, two billion and 900 million. If you increase your earnings this much, how will you stay within the limits set by the Budget Law? It's about the geometry, Mr. Ilic, but I'm sorry, it's more important to me than the people who pay the fees, or the fees to the Republic Geodesy. I'm not sure they're actually gonna pay for this decision, but they're paying for it. As part of its major fiscal reform, Minister Dinkic, in a way, abolished his own revenues, the system of fees and taxis collected everything in one fee, which is one of the reasons why you propose this law. From the point of view of the taxpayer, or the person who pays the tax, it doesn't matter. In this law you are now saying – everything is united in one tax, it will determine the amount of tax the Republic Geodetic Institute. The fee is the price for the service provided by the state authority to the citizen. Tax is not tax. It cannot be as big as it takes the state to finance a system that is otherwise unable to finance itself. I'm afraid that based on the costs that are so massive and poorly arranged, I repeat that once again, it's not just their fault, it's much more of the government's fault, or the government that led this country, that the annual budget needed for the functioning of the Republic Geodetic Institute in the end will, in fact, be pushed always, by creating the amount of taxis compared to that. You already have a strange system of points and points in the Republic Geodetic Institute. It has not been since 1993 in Serbia. - 1994, when it was hyperinflation, so the prices were in points so they wouldn't be formally, actually in euros, and they were essentially in euros. We've proposed an amendment. For us, that range of 3-50% is too large, giving too much discretion to the director. There is no official in this country who can decide to increase wages or coefficients of up to 50%. The President of the Republic can't do that. Eventually, he can give the medal and say – connect, on TV, but he can't increase 50% of the salary. I'm sorry, I believe in public service, in their independence, but it's a little too much of my authority to increase the coefficient so much, because tomorrow they're going to be looking for someone in another part of the state administration and then you won't be able to fulfill it. So the President of the Court can tell you that he needs the authority to have such a large amount, i.e. the range of salary increases, and anyone can tell you that. That's what the director of some clinical center can tell you. In each segment of public administration or public service you will find the same justification. Everywhere people will say they're low wages and it's everywhere, as you know, mostly correct, Mr. Ilic. I am still not sure that in this sense the most vulnerable are those who work in the Republic Geodetic Institute, especially those who work in higher positions and who, I repeat again, already have relatively decent salaries for Serbian conditions. Our proposal is to reduce the range, Mr. Ilic. Let's say he's up to 20%. It's some range that may be reasonable, acceptable and has enough space to really make it possible for people who are the most engaged or who are the most burdened. Once again I say that the range of 50% is unacceptable. It seems to us, and we have the experience of living in this country and the functioning of this tax system at all, taxis and fees, that there will be too many decisions to increase the coefficients in these higher amounts to 50%, that this will collect a service and that, Mr. Ilic, in fact, will achieve the opposite effect of what you advocate rhetorically in the interpretation of this law – that it will collect services, that it will reject investors, that it will not be a positive impulse on the path of Serbia's integration into the EU, as you say in the interpretation of the law. Another reason why we think that this law is not well prepared, sent to the Assembly, and that it does not deserve support on this form, is the reasoning that you propose. Obviously, this law was not done or that even if his first hands were not done 15, 20 or a month ago, when he was sent to the congregation, it was done long before that. Since you say that one of the reasons for the adoption is that by law, under the new provisions of the Budgetary System Act, the level of public service fees provided to the Ministry of Finance's consent by 31 March 2013 or the fees will not be charged. I understand that this is an argument, but it is an argument in January and February, it is not an argument on July 16th, today we are discussing this law, nor was it an argument on June 20th, when the government established this proposal and sent it to the Assembly. I don't understand what the urgency is when a taxi has to be registered by March 31st? This March 31st has passed, and the next March 31st is about eight or nine months. I'm not going to go into other things now, Mr. Ilic -- why, what other problems there are even within the system of the Republic Geodetic Institute, but I'll tell you what the objections to NAED are. I think yesterday the second quarterly report on the status of the reform was released in 2013, which is the period from April to June. Many of these recommendations refer to problems with building permits and a building site. These are obstacles that drive foreign investors. I read carefully, and I'm not sure that their remarks are, or that at least they're the key requirements, as you said at one point, to raise salaries at the Republic Geodesy Institute. There are many other jobs to be done before, which they require to be done, and which are related to the political part of the state, to the government when it creates laws and then business environments. None of this has been done by this government, Mr. Ilic, or your Ministry, and I view the government as a whole. You have decided to ask for a drastic increase in the coefficient, or salary in the system of national diameter and cadastre, so to speak, using the wording from the title of this law, and by the way, there is actually no serious reform. That problem, of course, isn't yesterday's. These are examples of exercises for law school students for some 30-40 years, about an unregulated system of real rights, land, application of different legal regimes. The fact is, practically since the end of World War II, we haven't been able to establish an effective system in this sense. That's why I don't think it's the right way, and it's not the solution to do it with such selective, partial amendments to laws and laws that will create great problems and tensions in society, especially in public administration sectors and otherwise some parts of public administration, especially private sectors, and they are investors that you allegedly care about with such a bill, pay and the price of an incompetent state. When he pays his taxes, he does it the most directly. When he pays his taxes, he does it a little less directly, but he refinances an inefficient state. I'm afraid, with this bill of law, you've extended that practice, that you've offered a kind of solution, which looks a little bit like this oak solution, which has been told a lot in the past few days, which may sound wonderful and fantastic with all these pasarellas, steel linings, etc. I think our policy and the state administration system needs, above all, a good cold lining, a sobering, facing how inefficient this system is, and then modern projects, an increase in wages, the formation of such a kind of system will come into order. Before that, you will have a problem with educators, with health workers, with many segments of those who receive salaries from budget funds, because of what you are trying to do with this law. You will have this particular problem in smaller places, where there is otherwise a catastrophic social and economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21189	The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21190	Mr. MP, I've listened very carefully to you and you're right and your discussion is good. I agree with your discussion, but I'd like to give you some clarifications. In the past government, the Republic Geodetic Institute has always done business and paid itself off and was not on the burden of the budget. Now in this government, all revenues and taxes go to the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, no more of your own income, which is what used to be. It is true that salaries have been increased, that salary increases are proposed. It is true that you said so too – receiving employees. That's what it is, that's why the law changes, because of those receipts. For example, the salary of a geometer with a medium professional standing at the Republic Geodetic Institute for the solution it has is 23 thousand dinars. Maximum, with a 30-year job, he goes up to 32 grand. In order to get that geometry out on the ground to work, do you know how many strikes there were, so the workforce was hired under the contract of work, etc., they paid it for years, in the last five years, from their own incomes over overtime and various supplements, etc., and he had those receipts that you're talking about. Now we end it, there's none of it, because the Ministry of Finance will no longer grant approval that from the budget reserve to give some money to replace it, but only a fixed salary per contract. The one with the 23 grand, the geometry that's on the ground every day, won't come out again, won't even get a new one. It's not true, and it's wrong here and it's written and we're going to change that. They have a rule about it and the director respects the rulebook, 3% refers to high professional equipment, and 50% to these lowest ones with 23 grand. They asked to survive and strike. You know that the strike was every year and every year it was somehow given to replace it for about 35-40 grand. Now he wants to get back on the salary he's going to have without getting charity every one of them. If he's good, someone takes him over hours, if he's not obedient, he tells him - you don't have this month, etc. They're looking for it, it's for the union, it's for all their associations, to define their salary, and that he has his own salary that he knows he's going to receive every month, not to depend on some manager to write to him for hours, how many hours, where he's going to lead him, how he's going to lead him. They're extremely well-charged by taxis that charge and aren't on the burden of the state, but somebody takes it all away from them and they don't have any of it. That is why it is very important, and the fees are regulated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amount of tax is adopted by the government regulation and the government and the fees are taken into budget, leaving them with a salary of 23 thousand and these people are coming every day before the government and asking for a meeting with all ministers. We can't discuss the same subject with them anymore. When Mrs. Geometer comes in, every day in the field, in the boots and says, "Minister, I have 23 thousand salaries, but once I didn't go to the field and my boss didn't give me overtime, my colleague gave it to me because she listened, and I once stood up to him and he didn't do it to me. That's what he wants to regulate now. The Director won't be able to determine, but they have their own rules that have been passed and signed, and the Director is obliged to enforce that rule. We'll fix that. You're right. It's true there's a lot of problems. It's true that laws can be changed. The law on planning and construction is ready for parliament. I invite you to come and take a look. There's one issue, and that's conversion. Mr. Đurić, you and all the lawyers who want to help, not only in parliament to come and discuss, yes, no, they worked best experts, they worked outside, USAID, the World Bank, they all worked and we all say it's not a good solution to conversion. Come on, help, you're from that profession. Come and get involved, look, make remarks to fix it, but we have to go out with that law. Let's not after we bring him into parliament so we can all attack him, then we destroy him with various amendments, etc., but to bring him into order. You have an open invitation to put it in order. I repeat, your discussion is completely in place when you look at receipts, when you look at everything, but no one else in finance will talk to them when they come. This was the last time and they say – bring the law that we know what salary you have and what program we're going in with you for next year, don't come and look for every first time, because we don't know what we're going to do with you anymore, we can't give you, and with 23 thousand you won't work. That's the problem today. That's why we came to parliament to resolve this problem, if we can solve it. If we can't, we'll have another problem, and then we'll have an "Attack" and everyone will attack us and say, "You're not effective." We're not effective to have a 20-year-old high-school geometer, they carry most of the work on the ground, out in the field, in the rain, in the wind, all day long and bring in 23 thousand wages. Then someone comes along, and he gives in, and then you give in to the little door, and so on. You've started a subject that's very serious. The oak question, everyone's talking about oak, and it's really sick of a man listening to that story. The oak that the boss sold and charged in full and did not say it was important. He said I have an oak. A court expert came out, figured it out, and he charged it. Everyone got in there and charged. Some four thousand euros, some eleven, but six, it doesn't matter. Now that all is charged, sold, they say – we can't give now. How can you not when you've sold? They say it's important for our village. Then why did you sell it, why didn't you tell the designers it was important? The bar was important to you, so you asked all the signatures to check it out, so the school is important, it's okay, so important this, so important what, the church is important, we haven't hooked up with any, defiled, etc., but no one mentioned the oak. When the machine came to the oak, then everyone said - it can't. We didn't want to go into conflict and cut. I don't want to discuss the subject. I called the designers, the experts, all the people solved the problem, got in trouble, moved the bridge that hasn't been left yet. On one side of the bridge were not poured out pillars, some pillars by two meters, some by a meter. They fully introduced a highway radius that was 100% respected by law and was not threatened by traffic security and ended all this and went around the oak. Here's the route of the highway, the oak is surrounded, the bridge is a little wide, the paths are open (show map, prime. A rock. ..and what happened? The bridge project requires only two months to be official, there is no delay, there is nothing and it is all in accordance with the law and the security of traffic is respected, and angles, and entrances, and radius, and tunnels and everything is by law and regulation. It takes time for these pillars on a 600-metre bridge to move from one side, and on the other side they pour, they make a bridge, and that's all right. Therefore, all those who take care of that oak, sitting under it, have no need to guard it, no one will touch it, it remains protected, the land around it remains. I repeat, the ones most pushing there are the ones who charged and kept quiet while they were charging, they did everything, and after that they remembered. Everything's fine, and we don't have that problem. Everything will be done in the best order, as the law commands. There won't be any damage to traffic. I don't want to bother you on this subject, but I am obliged to meet the Members of the People. Every day there's a story running around, I'd cut it off, I'd do this, I'd do that. We didn't want to go into conflict with any citizen. There's a solution to every problem. And there is a solution to this law. It's a good thing you've submitted your amendments. Every good amendment should be adopted, accepted and arranged, but we cannot allow someone to work for 23 thousand dinars today to work out a responsible job and to be persecuted for it. Thank you, and I'm sorry I made it too long, but I owed it a little bit. I fully agree with your discussion, I repeat, and I am very pleased, whenever I am in Parliament, which you, Mr. Djuric, are very specific about and giving certain suggestions that are quite solid to me. I want to commend you as an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21191	Thank you. The word is Predrag Markovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21192	Thank you, Madam Vice President, and you are the first vice president of the National Assembly. I draw your attention to article 106. I personally found it very unpleasant to throw out, and, as you know, article 106 says, "The speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted." This applies to all speakers and tossings who said they could and turned the TV, that they didn't have to turn the map, were very incorrect, above all towards Minister Ilic, as well as tossing towards the previous speaker when he said and fenced himself that George Washington was a geometry, which, of course, is due to what our children are doing today -- they use data from the Internet. Let me explain something. It's all a matter of context, like this explanation was a matter of context so as not to misread wages. Also, this is a question of context. In the century he lives in Virginia, George Washington, there is a different understanding of school, education and diplomas. George Washington didn't have any school, as you know, he was educated in church as a self-taught, as was Vuk Karadzic. In his notes, he wrote that his interest in geography, history, military, mathematics, music, and since he was sixteen years old was at a function that can be called, for example, the main geodetic -- someone who's been checking disputes between landowners at that time. It is very important that in this discussion we all make sure that we provide accurate data, verified data, or that in time, as the minister has now done in time, let us distinguish what is what is formal receiving, and what is what is really receiving, because these facts are important for a serious discussion. Thank you all for doing this to you in the future, too, for preventing you from throwing away. I'm not asking you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21193	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21194	I won't spend more than 20 seconds around Washington. Thank you, Mr. Markovic. It's not from the Internet, though. You have a pretty good view of George Washington's career, for example, in the book "The History of the American People." Why do I mention it? Because it's one of the best translations of this kind of literature in our language, and it's done by Mrs. Jordana Courier, who works in this House, and I don't believe she's made a lot of mistakes in translations, as you do in some way. Mr. Ilic, thank you for your commendation. I won't come as a lawyer to help you with the Law of Conversion. If you're calling me a politician, I don't think we can make that decision like this. Make a decision in the reconstruction to change the party composition of the ruling coalition, and then maybe we can talk about it, but then there would be no room for many. As a politician, I'll tell you how I feel about conversion. Like when the law was passed, today I am against this concept at all, and especially that part of the billing for those who have come up with certain immovableities through privatisation processes etc. I think it was a demagogue, populist and pointless decision, that it shouldn't have been introduced and that it served only to blur the public's eyes and that, among other things, we have so many problems today and with that law, that we have investment problems. But some of these things, such a relationship with those who invest, are characteristic of this government, weren't just for the one who was in power until 2012. I am pleased at the clarification for these coefficients, but it does not say so in the law, Mr Ilic, but it says that the coefficient between three and 50 will depend on the title, the specific working conditions, the responsibility, the complexity of jobs, the volume, the weight, the nature of business and the basic salary. It is one criterion of basic salary, but all these other criteria go in favour of those who are in higher positions and already have a higher salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21195	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we'll be back at 3:30. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21197	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. In the follow-up to this afternoon's session and after discussions of previous speakers, a fellow MP, we had the opportunity to hear opinions that differ very differently in certain areas and which are very contradictory. But I don't want to talk about what we've heard, I'd like to say a little more to the public of Serbia first, on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, which is what we are actually considering today, what legislative proposals and solutions we are talking about. So the Republic Geodetic Institute is one of the most significant state institutions the state has. It is by nature and the essence of its work, because it deals with the issue of territory and the regulation of space and the recording of all the things that are in some space, it is actually dealing with issues that are related to the very statehood of a country. One of the fundamental attributes of each country is its territory. There is no state without territory. To know where our territory is, what it's like, what it contains, how arranged it is, someone has to do it. In this case, the state of Serbia has entrusted its business in managing this data, processing this data to the Republic Geodetic Institute. Jobs done by the Republic Geodetic Institute, therefore, do business in the domain of the State Administration Authority relating to state diameter, immovableity cadasar, water cadastre, both underground and super-earth, and other geodetic works such as: cadastrian bases, address register, management of an address register, working on a catastrian-topographic plan, monitoring the entire infrastructure that is located in one space and a locality and providing all other services to other relevant companies, institutions engaged in engineering and technical activities in order to carry out and its primary activity. If it is urbanism, it provides the necessary data to urban planners, spatial planners, if it is energy, then energy companies dealing with energy infrastructure and development. In this sense, we need to understand the place and role of this, not to say, one of the most important institutions that the Republic of Serbia has. If I were to tell you in the end, and I'm going to tell you why I'm going to do it now, I'm going to count and read the work and the work that the Republic Geodetic Institute is doing, and I'm going to explain later why I'm doing it. Thus, the Geodetic Institute performs basic geodetic works, then the cadastrian and commercial diameter of the land, establishing and maintaining the cataster of the immovableity of one of the most important areas needed by this state and by one legally organized society at all. I've already said: the diameter of the water, the establishment and maintenance of this same water cadastre, performs expert supervision of the performed geodetic works that geodetic houses do. One of the fields of work and operation of the Institute is to issue licences for the work of geodetic organisations, but at the same time to determine the conditions and circumstances in which these licences can also be revoked, i.e. to withdraw, issue and withdraw the authorisation to record from the airspace, so, the aero-photogrimetric recording of the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the purposes of the national diameter, shall be conducted by the address register, maintain the register of spatial units, carry out the diameter of the state border and the waters of the register of state borders, carry out catasterical classification and land bonitation, quality determination and registration, maintain and maintain the calculation of cadastrian incomes, carry out an assessment and manages the value of some immovableities, performs topographic diameter, cartographic work, also performs a record of geographical names, establishment and available to the geodetic information system, which is one of which is one of the most important areas for the development of a single state and one. The Republic Geodetic Institute is taking part in the establishment and maintenance of the national geospace data infrastructure located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, carrying out inspection of the work of geodetic organisations, carrying out an overview of the geodetic bases for the needs of engineering and technical areas in the construction of projects, providing other services from the work of the Institute concerning the international co-operation of our country, which rely on one of these areas and resources covered by the Republic Geodetic Institute. Some time ago, the latest regulations were added to the Republic Geodetic Institute by new competences and new jobs that should be and must be fulfilled, according to the laws adopted in this House. Since recently, the Republic Geodetic Institute has been dealing with restitution issues, a very broad and sensitive area that is very important and important for the functioning of this country and for the democratisation of our society and one of the key parameters in the process and the accession process of Serbia's EU state, because without resolved issues of lagging restitution, we have no progress. Then, what we adopted a few months ago, the Law on the Registration of Rights of Buildings built without a building permit, just to remind me that in Serbia, for these or those reasons, without a building permit, about 1,300,000 of such objects were issued. It is a huge job that, with existing capacities and existing numbers employed in the Republic Geodetic Institute, is very difficult to achieve without what is next, and what was actually a question of these previous discussions - why is it increasing, or could not even be said, the monetary mass to pay off employees in the Republic Geodetic Institute, but is increasing psychologically one stimulation that occurs in the ranks of employees in the Republic Geodetic Institute, therefore, geodetas of geometers, in order to hear the fact that since 2009 these people literally manage to maintain the level of paid expenditure and financial contributions to their employees through forms, as we have just heard, writing and calculating overtime work, stimulating on the basis of unsaved savings, etc., and in fact in order to achieve some of the already achieved and achieved levels of money, which have not been achieved since then. Why are you doing this now? This fact state, which has existed since 2009, in terms of earning people's geodetic profession employees at the Republic Geodetic Service, has been defined by the Law on Civil Servants and Officials who, as we have had the opportunity to hear, and I know it well, as a man who, in previous years in his work, was often conditioned to contact and work with catastra workers across Serbia, they had a basic level of profit of 23,000-24,000 dinars. It is through this shown percentage of their earnings up to 50%, as it is said from 3% to 50%, that I am not increasing anything, further, in the future, their profit level will continue to be at the same level as so far 34,000, 35,000 or 36,000. We're just trying to avoid that previous gymnastics through one system and legal framework, to call it that, which occurred in the previous period from 2009 to today, which, of course, is not suitable for any man employed, to a man who provides his work in any company, and also to the Republic Geodetic Institute, and who therefore expects to have the appropriate financial compensation, which is called his earnings. Why should we use more through various gymnastics instruments to enhance methods, i.e. to allow ways to be done through writing fictitious overtime, through writing fictional and non-existent stimulations based on any savings in their work, no, so I think it is much fairer that these people know exactly what their income is, how much their monthly earnings are achieved in the context of their school equipment and jobs and tasks that they carry out in their workplaces and tasks in cathedrals across Serbia. And as of today, these people will be there every morning, not wondering if something will happen next month, so for whatever reason, they won't have these overtime hours, or make any kind of fictitious savings, and in this way lose the stimulation, based on which, I say, they've been patching up those 35,000, 36,000 grand total earnings, or those 12, 13 grand, which they've achieved through stimulation, or overtime hours. The Republic Geodetic Institute has a very large engagement in important state projects at the moment, which are being implemented in the Republic of Serbia. They have a very active participation in the realization of a project to build one of the biggest capital investments that has already been through their operations and started, which is building South Stream, which physically, as we heard will start somewhere from the end of this year. But don't forget that every construction project on the ground involves first of all legal-imvine preparation and land handling, so that there are already jobs, we can say freely, with regard to the implementation of the South Stream project, that the workers, or the people of the Republic Geodetic Institute, have already taken the project into their work, and is already by determining the route, the broad route and the rope route of the corridor of that, he already in the works. Then, the geometers are very engaged in the construction of highways, i.e. corridors 10 and 11, which work in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, there would be no possible realisation, which is still under way, the construction of a large number of apartments in the Kasarna "Step Stepanovic" area on Vozdovac, without an active approach that people from the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Information and Communication Technology Sector have achieved in such a way that, using modern software programs, they have been able to accelerate through the information system registration of all apartments, housing units, which there are about 5,000 in buildings built in the Kasarna area. In this way they recorded all 5,000 housing units through a thorough division and a thorough extraction, through one of the software they made, so that only one day they were able to bring up several hundred solutions to the separation and registration of apartments in the logbook of the real estate catastra. The immovableity cadasar, which is one of the most important things that the Republic Geodetic Institute is dealing with in the first place, means that a base of immovableity is formed which the RGZ operates and manages, maintains and upgrades, is related to the issue of protection of property which is one of the fundamental human rights. The issue of property, ownership has been a question since the Roman period, and so we say, which is present as one of the most important issues and its protection, is certainly one of the most important things that the Immobility Catastre deals with. Unlike some times after World War II, when the issue of property is treated in a different way in the context of the social and political system, the issue of property today, from the time of the introduction of multiparliamentarism and the start of democratic transitions in this society, is being given its full importance and full capacity and question of property through the work of people in the RGZ at this point, is being given its right form which is compatible with the solutions and form that exists in developed democratic societies in the West. What else is important to say about this amendment and the addition of the Law on Premation and Catastro? Through this law, I will have to hurry for two more three minutes, through this law it is possible for more active access to a wider number of geodetic engineers who have now acquired their knowledge and degrees in reforming the higher education system, not only on basic, or master academic studies, but also through education, or studies in specialist vocational studies. So, they have the same level of education and so far a solution that has treated the issue of work and the roles of these engineers, i.e. the 2009 final students that came into force, it seems to me that in the autumn of 2010, they discriminated against the vast number of geodetic engineers who were in studies, specialist studies and acquired the knowledge of geodetic specialists in vocational studies. In this way, they too can now, therefore, professional study specialists, fully equal with their fellow masters of academic studies to obtain the first order license needed to provide services in the design technical documents, or documents for which the first order licence is intended. In this way one injustice was certainly corrected according to a large number of geodetic engineers and geodetics in general, who had been in a very discriminatory and inferior position for the past three years, and which was particularly mirrored in smaller environments. In contrast, perhaps from Belgrade, whose situation I do not know enough, in smaller cities, and these smaller cities can be cities of order and size and up to a few tens of thousands of inhabitants, it has been very difficult to find a geodetic engineer, let alone two other working in the same company and who could do geodetic project technical documentation and also verify if it was an integral part of some of the projects for urban areas or other project technical documentation. In this way, a great injustice has been corrected and it has been gained the possibility that, through an increased level of competition and competitiveness of these geodetic organisations, there is, on the one hand, an increase in the quality of services provided, and on the other hand, a reduction in the prices of services provided, which will again have a general impact on the development of economic relations and relations in our country's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21198	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21199	I must pay particular attention to something that defines and deals with the rights of employees and all that will encourage and improve the motivation and efficiency and effectiveness of their work. In one of these important institutions represented by the Geodetic Institute, I am about to comment on the part that concerns compliance with the Law on civil servants and the work concerning the activities of the Geodetic Institute management itself in this process of motivation through the award process. How important is the institution of the Geodetic Institute I will not speak much, the colleagues who are very professional before me said one piece of information that says that, let's say, the Geodetic Institute of the Republic of Serbia is an institution that the Prime Minister of the time, practically moved into the building of the Republika Srpska government and, let's say, is one of the most important institutions of national interest in that country, and so is in developed countries in Europe and the region. What can be my critical consideration when it comes to this legal solution can be the part of the very organisational aspect of the Geodesy Institute, because if we are talking about the need for workers, that employees who are geodetic professions are motivated, rewarded and that they do better and better quality work, because they are doing a job of national interest, and all of it is of national interest to help our country attract as many foreign direct investments as possible and to realise faster and more quality capital projects such as Corridor 10, such as Corridor 11, in which the Geodetic Institute actively participates, such as the Osrežni Bridge bypass, then auxiliary traffic around the bridge of Adi and other capital projects. What would be my proposal to the Ministry itself and referring to a legal solution, is that we have not noticed that in the very organisational scheme of the Geodesy Institute, there is something that represents the son of a quau con, the governing process in the public and private sector, which is the sector for human resources management and development. There are several sectors, including the legal sector, the information system sector, but I do not know how this will be reflected and what the results will be when it comes to the development of human resources and their motivation in an institution that has no sector, directorship or service exclusively dealing with those activities that define the development and motivation of human resources. Do not forget that in this entire Corps, which is also an aspect of the motivation of employees to work better and more efficiently, involves planning of human resources, analysis of jobs, designing of jobs in the institution, quality recruitment and selection of what this law most treats in this Article 10b in the position of 2nd, i.e. an assessment of performance, i.e. the assessment of the performance of employees and criteria for their award. I am not sure that without one quality sector dealing with the processes and activities of the modern management process of human resources and organisation, one man, even if it is the director of the institution, can determine in a quality way how employees in the institution will be rewarded. So I urge that something more be done on this basis, to define clear standards for the motivation of employees in that organization. On behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group, I urge that a special sector or directorship be established in the Geodetic Institute, which will exclusively deal with human resources and which will bring in a multi-annual, long-term human resources development strategy in this institution that is very important, not only in this aspect of building, cataster publishing, but is very important in the process of economic development and attracting foreign direct investment. We are all aware of this, the minister spoke of it, that the simple system is important, that the Office for Quick Answers, and I hope that it will start working as soon as possible, cannot work at full capacity and give quality results, if we do not have an efficient Geodetic Institute and motivate people who, in accordance with their knowledge and abilities, will do their job best. What is the value of this law, however, is the final harmonisation and occupation of one ministry, with the Law on Higher Education, the alignment with the Law on Civil Service Officers, because we are all aware that most state institutions and public enterprises have not coordinated the systematization of their jobs and their organisational schemes with those two laws. This represents one step forward and one step forward and one modernisation and the Geodetic Institute, but also one impulse for additional public sector institutions to finally comply after eight years with what we have adopted as a state, and that is the Bologna Declaration, and that is a free academic space that involves all the countries of Europe that we have accepted and that we should respect. In many state institutions, in the public sector, still in the systems of jobs, you have what's called the sixth degree, the seventh one, the seventh two, the eighth degree. This does not exist, in 2005 when we passed the Law on Higher Education, and in 2010 amendments and additions to that law were made, these degrees do not exist. There are three degrees when it comes to higher education. So first degree, second degree and third degree. There is an vocational higher education, there is academic higher education, and we can't agree and we can't get people who have completed specialist vocational studies, or they've completed basic vocational studies and have 180 points or credits, as you will, to deploy them in the context of old systematization of jobs in positions that require secondary school or in positions where they receive a salary as if they have a higher school which, as a term, doesn't exist since 2005. The position of the SDPS is that this is precisely the value of this law, which will help define clear standards, advance the assessment of clear education and its quality, people who are employed in state institutions, will also help in what is called horizontal and vertical passivity in education itself, but in companies and institutions and organisations in which people work. It is also very important to link this law to the respect of the Law on Higher Education, because finally people dealing with the development of human resources in institutions will be able to appreciate in accordance with standards and the law the level of their education. What Bologna has brought us, it is not only a diploma, but also an addition to a diploma that every employee has to contribute to the Human Resources Sector, where it is clearly seen what competences these are, the one that needs to progress or who needs to be employed as a trainee has and according to this, people who deal with human resources management can make decisions so that the best people can put in the most responsible places. So, the Geodetic Institute, in line with the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Civil Servants, is going towards becoming a really modern institution, which can work and have results, in any case appropriate to one such institution, with one observation that it must work to ensure that the staff management process itself and the human teaming education process, in that institution must be better designed, defined by a directorate or a sector that will deal with it exclusively. I will remind you that both theory and practice have shown that one, up to two, two and a half percent of employees in any organization, whether it is a public or private sector, must be engaged exclusively in the development of human resources in that organization. I think an assessment of the work of employees, the assessment of their results, the models and standards by which you will reward employees in one organization cannot be left to one man, but it should be done as it is done in modern companies, which work on a market principle. So, you have a database, you have an information system, and the department is following it on her proposal, the head manager, in this case the director of the Geodesy Institute, can make decisions that will naturally go into favour with the motivation of the employees. Here we come to a great danger, ladies and gentlemen, which is simply that when a man decides, there can be certain subjective measures, subjective models, when it comes to motivations that do not rely on what is called results and efficiency in this company. Don't forget if you have standards that are respected, in every segment of business, whether it's industry, whether it's services, whether it's a public sector, only then if you respect those standards then you can also have what's called an equal game of human knowledge and ability. Only then will you have the quality, the best, the original, where people will race who will do better, who will do more, that they know that they will be motivated in every way, if they are better, if they achieve better results. It's the only way that it's any different. So that's one proposal, and in the end, we talked about it in harmonising this law with the Higher Education Act. Well, isn't accepting Bologna really the introduction of standards into our higher education? It was precisely the goal of accepting Bologna by our education system and our country. If there was no discretionary right of a professor, a teacher to evaluate a student the way he wants to, but you just have what's called pre-examinational obligations, you have an oral exam. These are standards, if one meets them – meet them, and you simply have the best possible way of assessing and the results of those who are fighting for a certain grade and for a certain success. These are objections and one, I'm free to say a critical review of the SDP on this bill. We will also submit one amendment to this law, of course we will discuss this on the very Committee on Infrastructure, Spatial Planning, Telecommunications and Traffic. I can stress that the MP's stupid SDP will vote for this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21200	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21201	Dear Ministers, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster and Minister Ilic spoke in the opening statement about the reasons for the adoption of these amendments to the law, I will briefly count them. One reason is to adequately regulate the status of employees in the Republic Geodetic Institute, which are geodetic professions, and another reason is the motivation of these employees, as the minister said, with lower salaries, to overcome the problems of major suffocation in the Republic Geodetic Institute itself, slow problem solving, long procedures, etc. Also, one reason was to comply with European laws and European standards. That is why Minister Ilic cited it as the reason for these amendments and the additions to the law. Let's start from the beginning, for those reasons why we're changing the law, to comment on it. For one reason, it was the motivation of geodetic workers, because people receive low wages, and they do responsible jobs, and we have frequent strikes on these employees at the Geodetic Institute. None of the ministers in the previous meeting could solve this, so it is imposed as a commitment, since all the revenues that have been partly and separately in the Republic Geodetic Institute so far, and it seems to me that it was not, have now gone to the budget, that in some way a legal solution has been found for these people to be rewarded and it has been proposed that state officials of the geodetic profession in the Bureau of Fundamental Salaries be multiplied by a coefficient ranging from three to 50% of the coefficients established by law. One logical question arises, since we heard from fellow Đurić that these salaries are not as low as they represent themselves, that it is the basic salary of 23-24,000, but that those with various other increases also come to a figure of 40-45,000 dinars for high school. Are these salaries so low and is that the only or the basic reason why it's a huge choke in the cataster and why it's waiting so long to solve certain problems in the cataster, you can't get enrolment or any other job that you want to finish, it takes months? If that's motive, then the logical question arises, why are only geodetic workers isolated from everyone else? In the Republic Geodetic Institute, other professions work, lawyers work, people work with higher and upper secondary schools, and the Geodetic Institute deals with legal and imvine relations and there are a lot of lawyers. Why would legal profession workers or others be less valuable than geodetic workers and thus be singled out and rewarded only by geodetic workers? I don't think that's exactly in line with what was the basic motivation for amending the law. On the other hand, the note that those people who are employed in the Republic Geodetic Institute with higher or high professional training, who are in responsible places, which also attaches this law, and have salaries of 70 and 100 000 dinars, have not made nuances between those with medium professional equipment that need to increase wages in order to be more up-to-date, why have we not then made different ranges for those with high school, and different ranges for those with higher and higher schools. We therefore need to nuance and more precisely determine who will increase the salary through this additional coefficient, as it is said in Article 10b, the final position, that the additional coefficient of each civil servant determines by the Director of the Institute. There were words to avoid politicisation or nepotism, in this way we found that it would be in the range of three to 50%, but again one man, or director of the Institute, will figure out how much that coefficient would be. So again it's the free will of someone who's set up there, of course politically. They will again appreciate not on the basis of certain precise criteria whether or not someone has worked on an up-to-date basis, whether they have achieved a good result based on some norms, and on this basis they will probably be more coefficientd on the basis of subjective criteria, whose salary will be increased and how much. Another important change in this law, i.e. the most important change in this law, is the determination of who can do certain geodetic jobs, who can and on the basis of which schools to get a certain licence, how many years of internship, etc. One of the reasons that has been mentioned here is to comply with European legislation and with the standards that apply in this area, i.e. harmonisation for legislation or with the standards that apply in the countries in the environment. I express a large reserve here, because I have been asking a little bit of questions and reading and there is no country in the environment, and in particular there is no country in the EU where it is possible that any engineer of any profession, or of course geodetic, can get a first-class license without having previously completed academic studies. Here, in your proposal to amend the law, it is said that the first-class license can also be obtained by a person who completed a specialist professional study for at least four years. Specialist vocational studies for those who are slightly less interested in the education system are more schools and there is no country, at least in this part of the world, where you can get a first-class license without completing academic studies, i.e. that you have completed more schools, i.e. in this case specialist vocational studies. Some colleagues before me used to say that this amendment to the law corrects the injustice that has been done to these people, so if we simplify things like that, then we'll come up with solutions that we can apply in other professions. For example, someone who can't finish law school but ends first grade, works five years in some law firm, gets the right analogy with this law to pass a legal exam and to be a lawyer. Is that possible? Of course it's not possible. There is no engineering profession where a person who has completed the Higher Construction or Higher Engineering or the Higher Electrical School can obtain a design license. It doesn't exist. He can get a license to perform certain works, but he can't be a responsible person for more complex tasks regarding engineering. If we're going to relativize everything, then we're sending a very ugly message. To all students we send a message – you do not need to peel benches for five years in academic studies, take 45 exams, go, finish your specialist vocational studies, and you will have the same rights after a certain number of years in the profession of a company, you will get a license for projects, perform works, start companies, even be in a position. I think that this kind of regulation is one degradation of education in the geodetic profession, and I don't think that this is in any way in line with European standards, nor is it in line with norms that even apply in the surrounding countries. Imagine if nurses or more nurses prescribed therapy? Then where would we go? So, you have to know exactly, and I guess that's why there's a degree in education that can do what. I guess that's why it goes to academic studies, so that certain matter can be mastered according to the curriculum and the program as envisaged and standardised in all countries in the environment. Even in Article 7, it is said that for the licence to perform works on maintaining the catastra of immovableity, cadastra waterways, etc. can compete with a geodetic organization that has two employees of the geodetic profession with the least completed high school geodetics. I understand on one side the motive that there are not a small number of small municipalities, environments where you can't always find a dipl. a geodesy engineer or geodesy engineer with a higher school, but the largest number of geodesic organizations has adapted their work to more recent legal regulations, so that not everyone can do everything. This law provides the possibility for even more complex work and work of geodetic professions to be performed by companies that have higher school employees. Further degradation of the profession, where these jobs are entrusted even to those organisations that do not have employees responsible persons, engineers, but only employ persons with a high geodetic school, would indeed be inadmissible at the expense of what is even the main motive of amending this law, that by reducing these criteria, a greater number of people are able to work in these organisations and to reduce the size of work and waiting in the catastres. We're going to lose significantly to quality. It can't be the same way that complex jobs in the area of geodetic diameters are done by people who have finished high school and those who finish colleges. It's the same way we're doing the catch again. I think the members of the 6th to 10th really do in an inappropriate way balance and balance between different levels of education. If that were possible, there would probably be no different schools, but they would all go to one of those same schools and be able to do all the jobs. We won't get anything by giving people who don't have enough schools a chance to do jobs or even have licenses to perform and design geodetic works compared to those who don't. Article 8 provides for the quality of certain tasks to be checked after inspection and professional supervision is added. I don't know if there's any engineering profession where the inspector is in charge of that profession set up by a certain ministry to carry out inspections without being a professional person. So, total pleonasm. If he is an inspector, then he is already a previous expert and inspection officer does not absolutely mean that he is not professional, or must be professional in order to be an inspection. A completely unnecessary determination that this is now both inspection and expert surveillance. Of course it's professional surveillance. You can't be an inspector if you're not a professional person. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted 20 amendments concerning these remarks, which I have talked about and on a more detailed understanding of who can get licenses for appropriate geodetic jobs, how companies can register for geodetic jobs, how many employees of the appropriate profession, with which types of licence, for which types of jobs. I believe that in one reasoned expert debate on the Committee we will come up with a quality solution which will differ from that proposed in the law. I think it's really inadmissible to further degrade and create a single equation between different levels of education. I don't know what this is motivated by, but it's simply unacceptable to send such a message that people who have graduated from high schools who have a proper education, who have invested much more in their progress and their education to come to the same level as those who have gone on a less-than-resist course and with different relationships and ties have been employed in the relevant republican institutions, acquire the same rights and the same titles as those who have had to go to academic studies and regularly come to their education and training. As far as the DSS is concerned, our statement under this law will depend on how you determine yourself according to our amendments. Two main objections are precisely that we cannot accept that for the design of a licence, there is no such thing as an issue for those who have completed specialist and professional studies, because there are no such things and there are no such solutions anywhere in the world or in any profession. That's why there are engineering chambers. Engineering chambers give certain licences according to a specific procedure. I don't see why geodetics should be subject to different rules in the area of construction, in the area of engineering, electrical professions, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21202	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21203	We've heard a lot of objections, justified and unwarranted, but I'd like to say something for the public. We feel like we live in a country and don't know our own country, as if we've never been to certain functions and we don't know Serbia. Do you know that in the state administration, and also in the geodetic profession, we can't keep the staff with 40, 50,000 dinar receipts, and with the starting salaries of 30 -- not by any chance. Do you believe that the people who write these laws we talk about have a salary between 28 and 50,000 dinars? We're a detachmentist. We make them, prepare them, then some private or foreigner comes, so when we get them ready, he picks them up. We take new ones, teach them, train them, do everything, and they leave. Do you believe that for a Republic inspector in a big city like the King's age, we have a pensioner, because no graduate engineer with an expert exam will work for such small money. In Topoli, no graduate lawyer will work in the catastra, but we take from Kragujevac and come one day a week. That's right in many municipalities. We say there are objects. There came a man for one day, from morning to morning, and what he had solved until the end of his days, he solved it and left. He solves two, three objects and leaves. People won't work. It's not just the ministry I run. That's right in many ministries. Do you believe that a city like Chack is no longer a urologist? No one's coming. They'll be sitting here, volunteering in Belgrade, waiting at the Clinical Centre but not going inland. He won't. He's got a small salary. That's the problem of this country. People manage in a way. Find a geometer in the interior – it's a premium. And find two geometers – a miracle. Mr. MP, these are the broad topics this state needs to discuss, not just the Government, we all need to talk about it. Do you believe that right now on the highway we need 70 supervisory authorities, graduate engineers of the construction profession. How long do you think it's been? One of them called. Where are the frames? I don't know, I don't teach people. They're all managers. Whom you meet and ask what he's done – management, media co-operation, PR, etc. No one's gonna say it's a geometry and want to get a job. We've now received 20 lawyers at the Ministry, because 20 of them have gone. And as soon as we get these 20 up and running, all we hear is that some domestics and foreign companies have taken them in. Because they say - privates pay three times the salary, I'm sorry, they're little children, we have demands and demands and leave. We receive a new one again, train it, learn it, educate it, guide it, show it, speak it, and as soon as We teach it, he goes away. I've listed 20 municipalities in Serbia with no geometer. No one's coming. No graduates, no lawyers. Warm is near Belgrade, why won't anyone? That's why we're talking about it. You're all saying -- we want quick permits, quick paperwork, etc. You can't let an intern work on a 300m-euro project. In particular, it's Corridor 1, where the investment is a billion and 200, 300 million, so far, and who do you give it to? Who's going to solve property-legal relations? The intern? Then you tell me -- we have a problem with this tree, with that, with this facility, with that, etc. Of course, that's what people are supposed to do, and they're not there. That's the problem. Now begins the big project – South Stream. Where's the waist? Do you know how many engineers, lawyers, supervisory authorities are needed? We don't have them. For example, the King. I've kept a man retired here for years to be a republican inspector. No answer has been made in the last five years. Not to mention Kragujevac and other cities. Everyone says it's a small salary and they can't work for so little money. They're all gone. And you're going to say, you have 200 thousand items. We say we do, but we only have three people who can work on those items. Imagine now three graduate lawyers and giving them 200,000 cases. Or, here, 720,000 items came for enrollment in the immovableity cadastre. And you know how many graduate lawyers we have who can work on these projects on their own? We've got four or five. How many years can that end? You can look for them now, but they won't come. Because there's someone there to take them in, to make them pay well, and they go away. And right now, they're recruiting our best lawyer, our best geometer, our best engineer, our best builder. A foreign company comes by and picks up all our personnel. All of a sudden, 20 people leave. Only the Minister, State Secretary and Assistants remain. And they, if they find anything better, go slowly. Because the minister's salary is 103,000 dinars. Now, you keep the Secretary of State extra-experienced. We can't find the secretary of the ministry, it takes eight years of internship, law school, professional exam. He'll be gone for a while. Therefore, I ask you to understand a difficult situation in the state. So we don't increase the amount of money. We want to legalize the salary through the law. That we don't have a situation where someone who's willing to put in overtime and that someone who hasn't smiled at him doesn't like him, doesn't want to sign him up and he's working for 23 grand. He's just waiting for a chance to go somewhere. That's a big problem. So we're not going to go to the Ministry of Finance every first time, and we're going to pray, and the unions are coming and announcing a strike. Then we all sit down and say -- how to cover them, they're really small, let's give it to them somehow. Now we're not going to give them, we're going to let them go into the budget, we're going to know that the pay mass is that big, not that we have some number. We want to legalize these 40,000 we talked about, to write in the law that he has a salary of 40,000. What are we gonna do, we can't do this anymore? But we can't let him write to him 23, because he's never going to bring in what the receipts are when he comes to me, but he's bringing me a solution with a starting salary. As soon as you tell him he doesn't do anything, that he has to hurry up, he says - Minister, I've got 23 grand, go ahead, I can't survive, I'm depressed, I can't work. What am I supposed to tell him? I now have to call his bosses and say why it is, how it is, and they tell me they gave him a little bit here, a little bit there, they're patching something up, etc. In the crowd, it stays the same in the dinar. The finance ministry didn't want to give consent to one dinar increase in the salary of the total mass, just to redistribute them regularly. That's how the previous government gave, but it gave under the grain. That's what everybody was doing, and it's been going on for years. We now say, that we are ashamed to say, if we give them so much, let the law stand, and give so much to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21204	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21205	Mr. Minister, I totally understand you and I agree with most of the things you said. How you started to talk about how small the salaries were, how everyone was running away, I just got the impression that some foreign company was going to kidnap you, and you weren't going to be a minister anymore. This morning, coming to the Assembly, I listen to state-run national media, where one says there are 68 thousand people in the country of Serbia who have completed a higher academic school without a job, at the Bureau. I just find this story amazing that there's no one to work with and there's no one to find. I understand that those people who come and work in the state service have been trained, they have this expertise, and they don't have a good pay, they're being recruited by these other firms, but it's impossible that 68,000 people with a degree in high school aren't interested in doing jobs on a gas pipeline, on a highway or something. After all, you mentioned surveillance. There's a mass of companies that are private and that can do surveillance and that need to do surveillance. No one here mentioned, nor did he say that it's against the increase in salaries for those people who have the lowest incomes, 23 grand. We fully support the concept of not being under the grain, but in one legal way getting those 45, which would probably be enough motivation for them to work up-to-date. But here in law, you didn't say that those people who have medium professional equipment have 23 thousand, and they can increase from 20 to 50% of that coefficient, but you said -- summing up from 3% to 50%. It will depend again, not on someone who sits on the sidelines and writes overtime, but in this case, it will depend on the director of the institute to determine its solution, which is the increasing coefficient. It's not a neck. It's a neck. About the same. If you've made your point and said – for the medium professional preparation of the geodetic profession there will be 40% increase, 15% higher, 5% higher, no problem at all, anominate, welcome, support. (President: Time.) I finish with one sentence. This way, we're making a one-way caller, who won't solve the problem again, and he's not going to solve the problem of what's going on with the average, the license, who can work, whether he can get high, whether we're tall, whether we can all do anything, by just saying we don't have enough people. It's not like that. There's a lot of geodetic organizations who cry out for work, and they don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21206	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21207	He's got 60,000 students studying high-school in our country and over 110 study programs that include basic and vocational studies, I have to say a few things. So, first of all, for fact and truth, there are no more schools. They haven't existed since 2005. Secondly, professional studies and academic studies have been fully uniformed. The only difference in that, and I would refer to Mr. Ilic's discussion, is that vocational studies train students precisely for the labour market, after three years, and academic studies mean that these students will be upgraded in academic terms, end master's studies, PhDs and work as teachers, lecturers or teachers at higher schools or universities. Four years of professional studies, three plus one specialist. Amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act will define what it is in developed countries that respect the Bologna Declaration and Master of Professional Studies. So, the difference is that professional studies are applied, and academic what that term means is training people to have theoretical and practical knowledge immediately on the labour market after that school. It's not about any students who want to finish their studies quickly or in any way, and then this law or the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Civil Service provide it. That's just not true. So we have to stick to facts. I will remind you only, we mention the EU, we mention developed countries, in Germany are exactly the so-called Fahovstuils, vocational schools where students go to practice for three or four days, and theoretically train one day, most precious and most valuable. It's these people who create industrial society, and they're the bearers of re-industrialization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21208	Time. Mr. Lapchev, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21209	Based on what I was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21210	Please don't. The law is one thing, and you will have a debate about education. You don't have a word. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: According to the rules of procedure. I gave my word, and you'll be advertising the Rules of Procedure afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21211	Thank you. Today we are talking about amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastrophe. Dear Minister, I really think it's good to see that one law may not give full effect in the field to approach changes and additions. I must also point out that I am not sure that this will fully modify and fully improve the work of the Catastrian Service. That's what you said yourself in your initial presentation. But every step that leads to a system solution and exactly what you've been talking about, introducing into a system of certain salaries, then that's certainly commendable. I was so free, I watched what the Republic Geodetic Institute, which was founded in 1992 in today’s form, had out of action, and what it is that it does today. Then I also put it down at the local level, or the municipality of Zitiste, from which I come and where 525 km square feet of agricultural land cover five officials. So when we talk about the work of the cataster itself, then we can't look at it unilaterally on one side of whether it's from the city or from some small environment that's been diverged with a small population. One comprehensive analysis has to be done. Anyway, when I'm talking about the local work of a catastra in the municipality of Sitiste, I'd be totally rude if I didn't say they were doing their job in the best possible way, given the number of people that should do the job. Only comparisons have been, for example, since the founding of 1992, competences have been: the doing of professional jobs and state administrations relating to the state diameter, the cataster of immovableity, the cadastre of the waters, and today, we have expanded activities, and the doing of basic geodetic works, address works, topographic and catastrian work, assessment of the value of immovableity, geodetic and catasteric information systems, national geospace data infrastructure, geodetic works in engineering and technical areas. You'll correct me if I'm wrong, but I think this is more than a double job than when the Republic Geodetic Institute was founded. When we look at the part-time work of the Institute and point to the fact that both the size of the business has been significantly increased through the two laws that we have passed lately – the Law on the registration of property rights, and also the law that allows conversion, then we will realize that these people have significantly more work to do. According to that data, we have 319 jobs with about 2700 and some workers to do the work from the office. I'm talking about the territory of all Serbia, that is, all six sectors and all those cadastrian units that work in municipalities and cities. Currently employed geodetic professions carry out these field and professional geodetic and catastrian tasks on geodetic measurement, collection and registration of data in the immobility cataster, which are of one general interest to the Republic of Serbia. There is a more precise definition of enforcement jobs somewhere in this law. Of course, the complexity and responsibility are also mentioned, so I don't think it's going to be the discretionary right of the director. I think maybe some criteria will explain how someone gets paid. What I also find interesting is the changes relating to geodetic organisations, i.e. companies, legal persons, businesses and entrepreneurs themselves. Accordingly, what kind of municipality I come from, which is one of Serbia's most underdeveloped municipalities, we currently have no one on the National Employment Service's record with a high level of expertise with this guy. On the other hand, when we look at that in 2009, a number of people who have had medium professional training and probably a very large experience in doing these kinds of jobs, I think we should give them a chance to get them into exactly this kind of business. Because, realistically, when we look at what it is that is done in rural areas, it is something that requires the work of these and these people on the ground. I think that what expands the number of persons who can get a geodetic license first and second order is not something critical, because there is also a preventive measure that can temporarily take it to three months to three years, and that is something that I think is commendable, especially if the Institute is running a register that is publicly available on the Office’s website on issued licences and persons employed in geodetic organisations, as well as the withdrawal of licences and bans on the execution of geodetic works. I think it's one increase in transparency, but it's also the field controls, because every time they hire one of these geodetic organizations or faces, they'll know exactly if they can do the job they hire him for, or pay for it. What I particularly wanted to point out is to comply with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, which is prescribed that only one fee can be charged for one public service. I am also thinking primarily of a member who is talking about liberation, where the fees of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province, the unit of local self-government and their bodies and organisations are actually released from the work of the Bureau for the issue of statements from the geodesy-catastrian information system and for insight into geodesy-catastrian data. I point out this for one simple reason, because I remember the period when I worked in the municipality, I ran business in economy, urbanism and construction. Any plan that is necessary for a municipality to develop requires just the initial acquisition of immobilities lists, as well as the plans themselves, and sometimes the background, the footage of the terrain, etc. All of this required the municipality to allocate certain funds. What remains today is the obligation of local self-government to create spatial plans, detailed regulation plans, general plans for inhabited areas. The moment we're talking about attracting investment and getting construction permits faster, it's all impossible if we don't use exactly this kind of service from the catastrophe itself. So, we've even happened on a few occasions, as a municipality, that we can't order all these necessary documents, because there were no things that existed today in the cataster, and the design of the plans itself would have run slower, and they were necessary and legally prescribed to be adopted by the municipality. Of course, today I am proud to say that there is a spatial plan in the municipality and that other plans are being made. But we can't expect the equipment of an industrial zone without the necessary paperwork and the plotted installations we're getting right now, I'm explaining this to make it more clear to all of us, that we're getting from the Republic Geodetic Institute, that is, the catastra service from the local level. I've been saying all of this to take one seriousness of the work of the service itself and how important it is that professional people and people with experience work there. I also want to point out where they are the benefits that, in future, by adopting this law, will have local self-government itself. Also, persons who are returned to the property by law by previous regulations can enter without paying that property tax. First of all, I think of those who are now in the process of restitution, likely to have the need to do something like that, as well as persons for enrollment based on an inheritance solution. It is also a fact that the tax is not paid for the execution of the geodetic-catastrian information system for the purpose of exercising the right of compulsory social security, social protection, martial law and the protection of civil persons with disabilities, etc. I think these are the positive changes in this law, which I haven't heard of anyone special to my colleagues pointing out today. All that will introduce solutions systemically and provide local self-governments with the opportunity to implement their co-operation faster which I think is both good and all that will lead to further examination of the work of the service itself, because this law defines and monitors and strengthens criminal policy, there is no reason for the URS not to support itself in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21212	The word is Mr. Lapcevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21213	Dear Vice President Arsenovic, I'm advertising the violation of members 104th and 107th. - the dignity of the National Assembly and my dignity as a National MP. I also advertise Article 27. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says all are equal before the Constitution and the law. I suppose we should all be equal in this National Assembly and that your duty and obligation, as chairman, is to treat every MP equally. Am I right? I assume your silence is a sign of approval. Article 104 says, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself on the MP, etc., or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. Of course, it is decided by the chairman and his discretionary right. I ask you, where did you find this discretionary right, so you gave my colleague the right to replica after my presentation? My exposure in no part, in any single word, was not transmitted, nor directly related to him and his exposure. Please answer that and give me the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21214	You've quoted Article 104 well. It's my discretionary right to give you a replica or not. In the presentation of Mr Marinkovic, I have not seen a word of any insult, humiliation, nor has he called you, nor your party. That's not what happened. I thought, especially since it's an issue that's coming up, because education is the system one that needs to be particularly debated, that we should move on to the agenda point. If you think that's so important to you, here, I give you a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21215	General, that may have been while you were a soldier, so you learned that your will should depend on someone's right, here... (Chairman: Please, I've been tolerant. ) Article 104 states that if someone misreads someone’s exposure, and this happens in this case, they have a right to replication. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21216	Mr. Lapčević, I've given you the right to speak, you have a line, but don't associate it with my military career now, on the contrary, I'm extremely tolerated. If someone else were here, maybe he'd behave differently. So, once again, I'm looking through your fingers, giving you the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21217	I'm really asking you not to humiliate me. There's no need to look through my fingers. Since there were most words about the education system and the minister himself stated how many problems this educational system has caused us and a completely different interpretation of some of the provisions that came from the Bologna Declaration, the famous, and the Bologna educational system, that is, the problem. So if everything were the same, and if the same thing were learned in vocational and academic studies, it would probably be called the same, and the same number of exams would be passed, the same title would be obtained. So, I don't really see anyone against high-level vocational studies, high-level vocational schools, or whatever they're called, having their place in the education system, but not the one that can be evened out with master academic studies. It's not the same, and it can never be the same, and nowhere in the world is the same. Our insistence that the law cannot put those who have completed high-level vocational studies with those who have completed master academic studies, simply, is not the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21218	Thank you. (Vladimir Marinkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Marinkovic, let's not go into replica. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Just one deal. Since the Minister has to leave at 17.00 a.m., do you want us to continue your presentation tomorrow or start and finish without the minister's presence? Please, let Mrs. Spasojevic plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21219	I'm afraid my discussion will last longer than five minutes. If the minister can wait 10 minutes plus those five minutes, I'll hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21220	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21221	We have a five-session government, which is scheduled. I'll be able to get back by six. If you want us to continue at six, I'll listen to you all as long as you want. If you want us to continue tomorrow, if you're pleased that the director of the Geodetic Service and the assistant write down all your objections, at 6:00 I'll be back in the O.R. and then we can continue our work. If you want us to continue at 10.00 tomorrow, it's no problem. So, whatever you say. We have a government at 5:00, and I have to be in the government. I have two points at the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-16-0.u21222	Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, today we finish our work and resume tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
