ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 72 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dusica Morčev, Radojko Obradović, Milorad Stošić, Olgica Batic and Branko Ružic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on the draft laws of the proposed agenda under points 1 to 6 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. As at the previous session, National MP Dr Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Article 97. The Rules of Procedure, which requested that the time provided for the debate be doubled, be put to the vote by the MP's proposal that the time foreseen for the hearing under paragraphs 1 to 6 be twice as long as that provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 86 of the total of 119 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16877	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 85. Rules of Procedure and several members of the Constitution that speak of the independence of the National Assembly. It is my proposal that the National Assembly propose that the Government withdraw the proposed laws from the procedure because they are not prepared in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure which states that the draft agenda of the National Assembly may only include proposals for acts submitted in accordance with the Constitution, the Law and this Rules of Procedure. I believe that these laws have not passed this procedure, that they have not passed the public debate, that they have not received the opinions of the competent assembly bodies and the competent independent institutions and that there has not been enough time for them to, above all, get to know the public they refer to, the citizens of Serbia who will be additionally burdened with these laws, the local self-government that will be prevented from funding some basic competences. I don't think this law has properly met the ruling coalition, or MPs of the ruling coalition, above all I think of the SNS who, I think, have, in the meantime, given amendments to these laws. It's very important that they took care of lawyers, doctors, especially those with good authority. I don't think they're familiar with this law in the right way either the President of the Republic or the first Deputy Prime Minister to buy planes in Sochi today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16878	Time. Since, methodologically speaking, the laws are handed over in accordance with the Constitution and the law, they have the right to be on the agenda. Of course, you always have the possibility of judicial protection. If you feel that anything is in line with the Constitution and the law, ask for protection from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanovic Plavsic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16879	Respect. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising article 107. A Rules of Procedure, which points to a violation of Parliament's dignity. I really don't think it's supposed to start out like this, but I had to take a call to respond to this. Now we see that DS today wants to obstruct the work of the Assembly, as she did two days ago. The problem wasn't that the MPs didn't have enough time to prepare themselves, but that there was simply an obstruction. That's when they asked for a stay, and it came out to meet them. They had plenty of time to prepare. I call on the Assembly and all of us to work today, to present to the citizens of these serious laws, which bring us the opportunity to stabilise the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Please, Mr. President, that even today, all day long, these attempts to obstruct the work in the root will be cut off.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16880	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16881	I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. It wasn't the DS's intention to obstruct the session. Our intention was to protect the citizens of Serbia the other day and to point out what you are doing. If you now expect the DS to report to the Rules of Procedure, it won't. I think you're too sensitive to what the DS is doing, because we caught you with our hands in a jam, gentlemen, and up to your shoulders, if you will. Now you say, "You are obstructing the work." Don't, please, point to our consistency and mistakes. You're obstructing the work of the Assembly when we point to what you're doing. That's what you do very ignorantly. Don't challenge us now. Don't tempt us. It's not a matter of preparation. The thing is, we pointed out what citizens need to know, and only through Mr. Vesenovic's exposure, my deputy. It was nervous right away -- here, they're on their way. Don't be afraid. We are not who you are to block Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16882	Have you applied for the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mikovic? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16883	I'm advertising Article 107. The dignity of the assembly has been violated. We would've gone over this, but it's obviously one abuse and manipulation. We think it's important enough to make things clear. What happened on Wednesday, of course, was not an obstruction of parliament's work, but we did not ask for time to get the MPs to know the materials. I think it's very important what was the college's conclusion. We've been looking for time to get to know the public about the materials, to be aware of all the positive and negative effects that such proposals bring. Simply, a normal and democratic process of law-making also involves public debate. We were not satisfied with the answer that something was on the Ministry of Finance site, since there are things on the Ministry of Finance site, so the Assembly is not discussing it. It's simple, there's a normal period and there's a way the laws are passed. They are released into the congregation procedure, then to the public, and above all, the professional public is familiar with these suggestions. I will remind you that even the Fiscal Council did not reach the beginning of the session to give its opinion, but only when the Assembly was interrupted. Why is this particularly a violation of the dignity of the congregation? Because the decision to interrupt, or postpone the session, was made to the National Assembly College, and I wonder if it is possible for the National Assembly College to obstruct the work of the Assembly. Then there's really no point in what we're doing. So I'm asking you not to let the president, I'm talking to you, that kind of manipulation. So it's not about two more hours that LDP MPs or other parties can read the law. Leave that to us, our organization. It is about the time it takes to get to know the public, that the professional public gives their comments and that then the National Assembly can do what needs to be done, and that everyone here knows what they're talking about and what's more important is that everyone in this room is aware of the consequences that his or her vote will have on every citizen's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16884	We're going back to work. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes of Property, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tax Procedures and Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens and Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on Excises. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16885	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the Assembly is certainly the most important place to discuss the overall economic policy, and especially about such important laws as a package of tax laws and I will be here with you for almost a week, as there will be a special session Thursday where the entire government will be to discuss economic policy with you. I'll be here for these laws, and then we'll all be in front of you all together on the day that's scheduled to be a special debate. Right now, let me tell you that I have nothing to hide and that I will be absolutely as open to you as ever and I will not only talk about this package of fiscal laws. The Fiscal Council gave a positive opinion on this package of fiscal laws. However, the Fiscal Council, as you heard yesterday, has given concern about the overall state of public finances and therefore I will not only talk about what a positive opinion is given, and these are fiscal laws, which are the formal subject of this debate, but I want to tell you what the situation is about, because I do not want to run away from the problem, but I want to point out to you and show that this government is aware of the problem, but that it is able to solve them. What is a fact is that economic policy is not only in Serbia but in all of Europe today in very difficult conditions. No finance minister is easy. However, it is no pronunciation. It's a job and it has to be done best in the interests of the citizens. Anyway, the situation is very complex and complex, and I'm going to try to tell you briefly what are the positive trends and what are the negative trends that we need to solve. What's positive about the previous year? For the first time in four consecutive quarters last year, we have a slight growth in GDP. He was 1.9% according to the Statistics Office. It is a modest growth, and I absolutely don't think I'm giving it any excessive praise, but the fact that it's the first time that the trend has been reversed since the whole negative last year. The fact is that there are only a few countries in Europe now that have positive growth. Literally all Europe's countries are in recession or those that have positive growth, it is much lower than this. What is also an irrefutable fact is that all that has been said for years that Serbia should develop, move on to an export-oriented model of growth, 2013 is the first year when it will show in practice and when it happens. Why am I saying that? Because export growth in the first quarter was 22% and import growth was 0%. So we have a growth in exports without import growth and a decrease in current balance of payments account by one quarter. The good thing is that this export growth is based not on the export of raw materials and semi-products, but on the export of finished products. The automotive industry draws one-fifth of export growth, not only the production of the Fiat, but also the autocomponent factories. What's also good and different from last year is that we have a stable dinar thanks to NBS policy. We have a trend of slowing inflation. There's one more thing, and unfortunately I'm exhausting a list of positive things and I'm going to move on to the negative ones. The good thing is that the Serbian budget currently has great liquidity. The Serbian budget currently has a billion and 258m euros in accounts. Whoever is talking about some bankruptcy tomorrow or the day after tomorrow should look at the figures, billions and 258 billion euros is the state of the accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget today. We have 922 million dollars, 257 million euros and 32.3 billion dinars. That when you convert into euro is the state we currently have, because we don't want to allow, unlike the previous government, to patch up the month for the month, but we always have six months in advance for a safe payment of pensions and salaries. As far as security is concerned, she exists. It's not a matter of six months, and that fiscal council and the IMF are warning, the issue is to keep this situation on hold for a long time. We've got problems here, and I don't want to deny it. What's negative in the current situation? There's a lot of that stuff. First, this mild economic recovery is unbalanced. There are branches that draw this recovery, which are primarily branches of light industry such as textiles, shoes, furniture, automotive industry, part of the chemical industry. But there's a whole series of branches in big trouble, mostly construction. There is also a significant decline in traffic in trade and this is one of the biggest causes of lower income than expected during this period, as much as 16% in the first quarter compared to the first quarter of last year. The biggest problem, which has existed before and which has not yet been solved, is high unemployment. In the past year, that rate was, you know, statistics to measure twice the annual unemployment rate per labour force poll, in April over 25%, 22.5% was measured in October. But I didn't want to make that information public because I don't think it's real. I think it included the number of respondents who were doing the census. We've never boasted about it. We think the unemployment rate is higher than that October data. We'll see now, in June, data from a labour survey that was conducted last month is usually published. Surely that is Serbia's biggest problem right now. It's a low population standard. That's undeniable. What is not good is that the grey economy has grown, given the data on the decline in trade traffic that does not correspond to developments in other sectors. We have well predicted that GDP growth will be 2%. Inflation is something lower than what's predicted and it's good on the other side. However, this discrepancy suggests that there is a greater decline in traffic in trade than the situation in profit and pension movements, and this suggests that there is a growth in the grey economy. Because of all this, in the first four months, we had far less income than planned. First of all, he failed the profit tax because when the budget was planned he was not expected to make profits in 2012 by more than 15% lower than in 2011. We expected it to be smaller, but it is significantly higher than 15% lower than we estimated in 2012. In 2012, you know that the work of this government is not the result. It's only 60 percent of what's planned. It even returns part of the advances from the previous year because the actual profit tax is lower than what it was and in that sense the incomes from the profit tax failed most of all tax revenues regardless of the increase in the rate from 10% to 15%. As for excise duties, excise income increased by 14% in these four months, but 30% was planned. One part of the tobacco traffic went to the black market, and above all it was a cut tobacco. We know that the situation in Serbia is difficult and that people probably don't have money for more expensive cigarettes and that they are forced, those who consume, to use cut tobacco. However, it is not justified not to buy an official, legal-cut tobacco that is subject to lower excise duty. That's why we started our activities together with the police on finding, not the ones that sell at the markets, but the ones that actually distribute this tobacco, and I think we're going to fix the situation here, but we can't eliminate the total loss of income. So, a total of 87% of the excise plan was charged, primarily due to the decline in cigarettes. Excise on oil derivatives has been charged as much as planned. As for VAT, VAT revenues increased in the first four months by 15%, but were planned to rise 24%, as VAT rates increased from 18% to 20%. What happened, though? First, you should know that exports and agriculture, which are currently the main recovery generators in Serbia, which is mild, but there is a 2% growth, are not the revenue-based deadline. The bigger the export, the bigger the VAT return. The more goods are exported, the more VAT is returned to businesses and the less effective the charge is than that of smaller exports. So it is absurd, but it is. As far as VAT revenues are concerned, they are charged at 92% of the plan. There were unplanned expenditures. Some because a new system of budgetary accounting was introduced, and some because they remained as a legacy from the previous period. For the first time since this year, project loans are recorded immediately as expenditure, not just at the end of the year. Every month, we register what was realized on the realization, e.g. infrastructure projects carried out together with the Government of Azerbaijan or with the Government of the Republic of China to build appropriate infrastructure projects. This was not previously recorded at the monthly level, but only at the end of the year was recorded and shown in the final accounts. We now have such accounting that these expenditures immediately appear and that has also further increased expenditure. However, there were also some unplanned expenditures resulting from the resolution of the situation due to the dubiosis inherited from the previous government, to be fully open. First, these are delays, various – various, or debts paid, about 11.5 billion dinars are paid to settle debts from past tolls, health institutions, recycling companies, local self-governments. All of this together is 11.5 billion expenditures that are not normal budget expenditures. Also, we had expenses to save the deposits of failed banks, such as Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank. In total, the direct budget cost to save deposits, so that people would not lose their roles, amounted to 18.2 billion dinars only for the Republic, without the province of Vojvodina. The total damage financial from the collapse of these banks is 620m euros. This is a direct budget cost, as the Deposit Insurance Agency also paid 280m euros, and this was just what was the cost of serving the bonds that were given. So when we add all of this together, as a result of the lower income growth than expected, as well as some unplanned expenditures, we have a significantly higher deficit than we planned. For four months, the consolidated budget deficit was 60 billion dinars, while the republican 78, which means that some institutions had surpluses in the first four months, primarily the Health Fund had a surplus of about nine billion dinars, then local self-government had a surplus of about 8.3 billion dinars. The first time since we've been following public finances is a consolidated deficit lower by the first four months than it is republican. However, of course that doesn't fool us, because we know that the surplus that has been achieved by these institutions is temporary and that, essentially, appropriate measures must be taken on the side of the expenditure, above all, to put the situation under control. We have proposed to the government this month that we reduce some 32 billion dinars to the expenditure side and these are the measures that the government should adopt. However, our vault has already set out to implement them by reducing the quotas to budget users and implementing them according to the new plan, not according to the original plan, from the budget expenditure, to reduce expenditure already this month. What is also coming is budget rebalancing. Yesterday you heard that the Fiscal Council suggested that it be done as soon as possible. We were thinking for the first time that only with these internal savings measures would we make, and then we would do rebalancing in early September. However, it is not excluded that we will do it in the next month and a half, because we believe that the evaluations of the Fiscal Council are both professional and honest and good and we believe that they should be obeyed. What we also plan to do, given the growth of the gray economy, we will take serious steps to protect those who regularly pay taxes to the state. First of all, we'll take advantage of the possibilities and go into serious control of unregistered operations, so those who don't pay any taxes, they'll be the first to strike. Of course, it is important that all of us help us, and you who are sitting in the Assembly, as well as all citizens, do not pay the bill unless they are issued a fiscal bill. The law says - if someone doesn't issue a fiscal bill, you don't have to pay for the goods, you don't have to pay for the drinks at the bar. So, I'm calling on anyone who's not given the bill not to pay for the goods they take or the drinks they drink. Because if a fiscal account is not taken, sooner or later it comes to the point that some expenditures that are much more important must be cut, and this eventually comes to wages and pensions. The important thing is to take bills. Why? Because it is necessary to place in the same plane those who regularly pay taxes and those who do not. We will begin to publish, in addition to publishing a list of irregular tax payments, a list of the most regular tax payments, because people need to know who the people who regularly settle their obligations to the state are. We will also carry out appropriate structural reforms that will reduce certain expenditures, which is, above all, the withdrawal of the state from the management of certain state-owned enterprises, thus reducing subsidies on that basis. Finally, it is necessary to establish serious financial discipline. Financial discipline has begun to deteriorate since 2007. Why? Because in our conversation with the tax administration people, we realized that of all the fiscal cash registers that exist on the ground, and after the suspension of the craftsman, there were nearly 200,000 of them left, that no one has lived in the IRS for six years, since 2007, has been running reports from the GPRS system at all, and is not running an analysis or controlling it afterwards. Such practices will be interrupted and the most severe penalties will be imposed on those who do not send reports. How come it doesn't grow a gray economy if no one controls it, and it doesn't seem in the last six years? That's something behind us now. The situation is that there is simply no room to give in to anyone and there must be no tolerance to the gray economy. What is also very important, we will first establish, we have already begun to establish discipline in the country itself. It's a big financial discipline. Here, at the end of the year this Assembly passed the Law on the regularity of payment deadlines. Most of the state institutions strictly adhere to the law, to pay commitments within 45 days, however, there are also those who do not. We've blocked this week the execution of funds to all institutions that don't adhere to it. It is not a large amount of liabilities that are not paid, it may be 1% of the total commitments taken, but without strict sanctions there will be no discipline. Don't be surprised that today's transfers will not be made to those municipalities that have not or their institutions carried out some obligations. You better say these obligations are carried out and the transfers will be carried out immediately, as well as the late republican institutions. So the criterion will be the same for everyone, whoever it is, because only through the establishment of financial discipline, through equal operating conditions for all can balance. If anyone asks – from where should I pay, if there is no money, there must be no obligation. It's a basic budget rule. So you don't have to make commitments that can't be paid. Now I'd like to begin by explaining the specific laws. These laws work for several months in our ministry and the original idea was to make reforms in this area, and then as time went by, there was a need for these laws to be used and as one of the measures of fiscal consolidation that we are now taking. That's why the laws are sent by emergency procedure. So they've been ready since the new year. You can see for yourself that this couldn't be prepared quickly for 15 days, but the fact is that certain elements of the law were done a month ago with the idea of fiscal consolidation, when revenue was seen to be lower than the plan and when the deficit needed to be reduced. What are the objectives of these laws? One of the goals that is very important is to further dissipate the economy, especially those that are the weakest, which are entrepreneurs and small businesses. How does that feel? It seems a few ways. First, the rate of salary tax is reduced from 12 to 10%, and the amount of untaxed wages is raised from 8,700 to 11,000 dinars. In this way, the tax burden of the lowest earnings is reduced from 8.6 per cent to 6.4 per cent. This will benefit the most, so-called. labour-intense industries, where unfortunately the salaries are the lowest, and since they will now not be taxed up to 11,000 dinars, then they will benefit the most. Also, the benefits of small entrepreneurs, so-called. The cobwebs. It raises the price for a flat tax on income from three to six million dinars. What is even more important, entrepreneurs are proposed to choose whether to pay their contributions to personal income or to earn profits. So far, the law only knew how to pay for the profits achieved, and with this solution to introduce a personal profit for entrepreneurs, they are equating themselves with those who run businesses and are reducing their effective tax costs by one-third. So their effective rate will be 30%, while their current load is 46%. In the debate in principle, I will give an example of how this is calculated and how this effect is achieved. In a debate with business associations, all entrepreneurs welcomed this proposal. That is, to say the same thing as their initiative that we have built into this law. It is also proposed to eliminate the total tax on cadastrian income for farmers. It is deleted as a category from the law. What we have also suggested, and what I see has caused already before this debate of the amendments to several parliamentary groups began, is that from the system of flat tax, lawyers, private dental offices, private medical practice, marketing agencies, accountants and auditors are excluded. No matter how government and parliament plead to these amendments, I am against and I will not give up what I have proposed, or what my team has proposed. If you see the definition of who it is – a cobbler is a obligor who has a turnover of less than six million dinars in a new law or under the previous less than three million and who is unable to run books, I think lawyers are capable of keeping books, as well as private dentists. The point is, according to this proposal, they should keep books, they can run them themselves if they have small traffic, and if they have big, the accountant doesn't cost more than 30 euros a month, so they can show their income, what their expenses are, and pay their taxes at 10% and contribute the same as the entrepreneurs who run the books. If they can run books for those who sell newspapers on the street, I don't know why they can't run lawyers or private dentists or private practice. This is a matter of the basic justice of the tax system. What we wanted to do with this reform is to establish a tax of justice, i.e. the treatment of taxpayers in proportion to their strength. I have to say that one good part of the lawyer is already in the VAT system and they're already in the book-keeping system. If they can do it, why can't everyone do it? Not to mention dentists and private medical practice, because we certainly can't even their tax status with the status of cobblers or carpenters. I absolutely don't think it's justified. What we are also proposing is that in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, the procedure is simplified, so that instead of paying all taxes and contributions on 35 forms, such as today, only one form is paid from the new year, and instead of the current maximum of 205 payment accounts, the obligation is paid to one person and then the electronic administration system is then distributed those revenues to those to whom they belong. All this stuff I've been talking about brings about a four-billion-dollar redundancies on an annual basis. As far as individual laws are concerned, there are more newspapers in these laws. In the case of the Law on Income Tax, citizens are proposed to reduce additional administrative costs by introducing self-taxation for entrepreneurs who keep capital gains books, on income paid by a payer who is not a legal person, as well as in all cases where the payer does not have an obligation to charge taxes per profit. As for the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, an increase in pension contributions to the burden is proposed from 11% to 13%, while the employer's burden remains 11%. Overall, the rate rises from 22% to 24%, allowing higher income to the pension fund by 15.4 billion dinars by the end of this year, i.e. 25.3 billion per year. We think it is very important to ensure stability in the functioning of the pension fund and in the long run, i.e. to have security for pensioners. What are the effects of these laws on the budgets of the Republic and local self-government? So, by the end of this year, the effects are as follows: the Republic would lose 3.4 billion dinars of profit tax, the place would have a drop of 12.3, Vojvodina 0.7, while the economy would get a billion and 700 million, and pension insurance expenditures would be reduced by 15.4 billion, i.e. a transfer from the budget to the pension fund, because at the same time they would be higher incomes from the pension fund. Why do we think this is a fair solution? For reasons, as I mentioned at the outset, there is a surplus on local self-government accounts of 8.3 billion dinars, and we have a problem at the republican level. On the other hand, we're in a situation where we can't and we don't need to increase the burden on the economy, but it's the idea of reducing it. Since the Republic government will be forced to save on account of this situation, I have already said that 32 billion dinars will reduce our expenditures, and I think local self-government should also make an adequate contribution. What I also want to point out is that the proportion in the distribution from the income tax does not change. The cities and municipalities remain 80%, 20% only go to the Republic. This means that when the crisis hits both the Republic and the province and the locale. We all have to work together to help make as many cities as possible production, secure new investments, and get to a higher growth rate of 2% because then in a scenario like this, 80% of the profits tax will remain at the bar again. So far, we have seen, unfortunately, the situation that larger revenues provided by this law, unfortunately, are not in all municipalities, honor of exceptions, used for productive purposes than there have been new employment in the administration, there have been higher costs for representation, there have been increases in subsidies for some things that may not be necessary and there have been far greater giving to NGOs. When you look at the analysis by municipalities, they get more NGOs than farmers from local budgets after this increase. That's why I think when it's being saved, we all have to save and everyone takes care of every dinar they give. What we also propose is to amend the property tax law. I note once again that property tax is 100% local income. The fact is that many municipality presidents and their administration are afraid to charge property taxes already expect complete revenues to be made easier. Because the property tax does not give 50% of the revenue from what is potential and what is the practice in other countries. For that I'm that every municipality, I know that everyone already has the right zones, one more time to consider whether the progressive property tax is well done? For example, in Belgrade, do those who live on Santa's pay enough or can pay more? Of course, since local self-government also determines the tax rate, it is from zero to 0.04%, I don't think anyone has set the maximum rate and I'm not saying it has to determine, but that rate can vary and through zoning it can be adjusted to make different burdens in different parts of the city depending on the social structure of the population. What is new and will give greater income to local self-government than next year is that it introduces a different way of calculating property tax for legal persons. So far, this has been done at the book value of the company, which was not objective, often accounting value has nothing to do with real market value. It is now introduced to be fair, i.e. market value for those obligors who keep business books of the underlying property tax. All local self-governments will be required under this law to publish by 30 November the average price of immovable property and land per zone and tax rates so that there is no arbitration in the charge of this tax in the coming period. Also, there is the possibility that a business book-leader would only tax the property tax. In all these laws, we are increasingly moving to taxation alone with the idea of reducing the costs of administration, and that in subsequent controls one who did not report the exact amounts of penalties. The Excise Act is also amended because, in the meantime, a single phenomenon has been established that there is a large imports of biofuels and biohazards to which no duties are paid, or excise duty is not paid. This law introduces an excise duty on biofuels and biotech in amounts equal to the excise duties on gas oils in which they are mixed. It is also possible to refaction depending on end-use as well as diesel fuel, i.e. gas oil. What is also foreseen is that, under the applicable rules introducing mandatory blending of biofuels in gas oils, the total amount of excise payment will be returned to all uses up to the quantity prescribed by the relevant technical standard. Finally, in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, there are many changes, but the most important thing is that instead of so far criminal charges for those who do not report assets for cross-checking of property income, strict penalties are imposed. The fine is fined and is 3% of the value of the unreported asset. So, the fact is that the tax administration's call came up with far fewer taxpayers whose property is more than 350,000 euros than there are in reality. Why? Because unfortunately, there was a hole in the law. The penalties for not reporting, they were negligible, they were criminal punishments. Now we have made a commitment to make this application by June 30th, so for the next month. Anyone who fails to report assets greater than 350,000 euros will pay the fine in advance, as soon as it is found not to have reported it, worth 3% of the value of the property, plus if a difference is found in the cross-check of the income of the property is paid as otherwise provided for by this law. These are the bill's proposals and let me tell you right now that this is the beginning of a new wave of fiscal consolidation that is obviously necessary in Serbia. Personally, I don't think this is gonna be enough. That's what the Fiscal Council considers, as well as the IMF. The evaluation of the Fiscal Council is very objective. That's why I want to have an open debate here today, because this situation concerns all of us. And you who are in opposition, us who are in government and even more Serbian citizens. Please feel free to criticise everything that is objectively to criticise, but not to go with the demagogy type – you reduce the place, but therefore the property tax that gives you the opportunity to collect more and replace those revenues should now be reduced for this or for that. As far as we're concerned, in the Republic Government, if you want the full possibility of expanding the base of property tax to do so, please, we can accept that, but don't complain tomorrow that local self-government won't have enough money. There must be a burden here, not only can I be the boogeyman, chasing people in the gray economy, establishing financial discipline, and some mayors sitting loose and giving money to NGOs and spending on the team. Simply, a balance of responsibility and balance on future work must be established here. Right away, there are certainly parliamentary groups here who will have the right to criticise, those who did not participate in the previous government. That criticism, or I'll accept it, if it's well-intentioned and objective, or I'll answer if I don't think it's good. However, the fact is that in this situation we wouldn't have been if we hadn't found all these dubiosiss in unpaid accounts of various different institutions, and I say right away, that not all of them were even paid, and in particular that we didn't have over 600 million costs in bankruptcy, in Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobanks. It's an inheritance that couldn't be erased and it pays the whole state, all the citizens pay. That's true. Thank you, I hope you will uphold the laws. The laws are reformable and will allow the deficit to be lowered, but the fact is that it won't be enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16886	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Zoltan Peka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16887	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present the views of our parliamentary group on the issue of a set of laws and tax laws. Today we are having a debate on very important laws that affect our economic situation in the country, and as we have heard from Mr. Minister, it is not a very pink state as far as our country's economy is concerned. If we see these laws affect the revenue side of the budget, from the lowest to the highest level, I mean local self-government and Vojvodina, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure it took some unpopular measures to improve the economic situation, but these changes show that some tax rates will decrease, and some taxes and some contributions will increase. If we're looking at realistically what we're losing on the income side, as far as income tax or income tax is concerned, with an increase in the contribution of 2%, it's almost balanced, but I think the PIO Fund will get more money than it's ever received by around 25 billion dinars. This is how the Republic's budget would be burdened with giving these money, as far as the pension fund is concerned. With this move, I think we've got time to solve social problems, especially as far as pensioners are concerned. I read in the newspaper the previous day that Mr. Minister made a statement that these changes, as far as tax laws are concerned, will not affect citizens, ordinary citizens of Serbia, are not being taken away from citizens, but will affect entrepreneurs or local self-government. If we look at this statement, it's a statement, looking one way or another, but if we look a little differently, it's not exactly true. I'll talk about it later. Now I'd move on to the laws individually and say a few words. The first is to change the Excise Act. When I read these changes, I immediately remembered, when I went to my friends in Hungary or Germany, they kept asking me what kind of people are here, and I keep saying that we are such a people that we are everywhere, that we can live anywhere and in any way we can, we will survive. We're such a people that we can find a hole in the law. So, to make such incomes that is not covered by the law. It says here, in this law of the hole, that biodiesel and biogas are. So our resourceful entrepreneurs found a hole, and this is how they made tens of millions of dinars, maybe the euro. With this law, we're going to blow this hole and I think it's positive, just so it doesn't affect the pockets of end-users, and here I mean the citizens of Serbia. As far as corporate tax is concerned, as we have seen, the tax rate remains the same, some benefits have been passed, and I think it's positive that entrepreneurs have the advantage, if they invest in basic assets in the development of new technology etc. As for the sphere of culture, education, health care, social welfare, if entrepreneurs give their sponsorships, then they have the right to benefit, now not 3.5% to deduct from their expenditure, but 5% of the total income is refused as a privilege. I think that's positive. It is also positive that when new businesses are launched, they have the benefits and those small entrepreneurs who, I say, reduce unemployment by hiring not 200 workers, but 100. I think it's kind of a positive thing. As far as the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration are concerned, when I read it, I immediately found that, I told myself that, for every such law, I am for him if he is good, if the time of tax returns and tax returns is reduced and the procedure itself is simplified. When our ordinary citizens hear the word "administration," and if it connects to the word "burocrat," and that still means lines, waste of time, I think in our computer era, we should use new computer technologies. The question is whether our citizens and workers working in tax administrations are able to do this regularly and whether they have certain IT equipment and IT systems. So the question is, how much money does it take to perfect these systems, to train workers, and of course, they should have computers, certain knowledge, that register their taxes. I've had in my life, while I've been working in the bank, a new IT system we've introduced and it's taken a certain time for citizens and workers themselves to move from one system to another system and I think we should set at least one transitional deadline here in this law. I would point out once again that it is positive and objective and optimistic that this is about our country's computer literacy, because that's why it's positive and optimistic, because we think we're going to sort of overcome and solve this problem, but if we look at some countries like America where computer literacy is at a higher level than our country, and there's still no exclusive electronic tax application. If we look at it with this optimism, I'm sure we'll be one of the world's powers of IT systems and technology. As for the property tax, it should be pointed out that these taxes are the percentage revenue of the local self-government budget, we can immediately point out that tax rates have not been changed here, that they remain the same, only with this law or bill, the basepiece changes or gives more opportunities to tax those things that have not been done so far. We all know that this year December 31st stands out so-called. A fee for building land, which is one part, a small part of the income of local self-government and with this law as I have read, would be taken measures to support this devastation of income. If we're really looking at the situation, we'll have a hard time getting it done, not us, but the mayors or the presidents of the municipalities. As we've heard from Mr. Minister, this part of the tax will increase according to the fact that we've been charging on some basis so far. As for bookkeeping, accounting value has been taken into account, but from now on market value will be taken into account, meaning the real value of all building land where they are buildings, or above which these facilities are. Here in this law is the exception of that ten-ar privilege. So from the application of this law every building land, every square of building land will be taxed. For those who are not yet or will not run business books, local self-government will determine one average price of squares and here it is introduced that at this price no depreciation of the objects on this land will be taken. As we know, local self-government must or must have the obligation by 30 November to set zones in each municipality, in which zone will be the basis for calculating these taxes. It is still important here to point out that this law changes, in some sense, the position of public enterprises, because it is now being introduced that tax exemption from real estate in public property is being abolished. So those public enterprises that have such land from now on, which are in the system of consolidated vault accounts or municipalities, they have to pay taxes on this property from now on. I think it's positive that those or those land that come back with the commission are excluded and, of course, here is still thinking about renting a building land that is in public property and, of course, agricultural land in state property. As I said that these taxes are the percentage income of local self-government, this is how with this expansion of the income base, a ball has been transferred to our leaders at smaller levels of government, so unpopular measures they will have to bring. They will hold or have to deal with the citizens and explain why they will indirectly increase tax payments as regards property tax. As for the income tax of citizens and also the Law on Contribution to Mandatory Social Insurance, we all know here that tax rates are reduced from 12 to 10%. Usually when tax laws are passed, taxes or tax rates are constantly increasing, but here we now have a 2% reduction in the rate, but that's actually 20%, if we're looking at dinars. There is still an increase in the untaxed amount from 8,776 dinars to 11,000 per month, then we still have the introduction of so-called. "personal profits" by entrepreneurs, as from now on the tax is paid on the actual income of self-employed activity. Here, he would single out what Mr. Minister said would increase traffic to three to six million dinars. I think it's positive and personally I don't think you should put a shoemaker and a lawyer in the same category. As I said, social security has increased from 22% to 24%, and this is how the PIO fund will get 25 billion dinars, at least by estimates. This means that out of the budget we can reduce the transfer funds and that's some positive thing, but the problem is that it turns out that the incentive of the economy is being transferred to the back of local self-government. I'll point out here, as we've pointed out so far, the AP Vojvodina. Why did I bring the Vojvodina? You know that from the revenue generated by AP Vojvodina's income, I think 18% of the income is from the other. I can still point out here that the Budget System Act, what we adopted last year, and we said that the basis for those 7% was reduced, and Mr. Minister explained to us that it wasn't, because we're going to get more money, unfortunately we voted against then and unfortunately so it turns out that we're going to have, that we're telling the truth because this base is shrinking in some way with this law. At the time, I think it was about that principle and it wasn't about the amount of funds. Here in this House, someone more picturesquely explained with two glasses of water, that one is full and the other is half full and it doesn't matter where the 7% counts from. So the burden will be borne by local self-government, Vojvodina and unfortunately the Republic's budget. If you know very well, and you know very well that in 2011, you had a good campaign about your personal income tax. At the time, you had one campaign that the locals would get 80% of those taxes, so they're going back to the municipalities. Before the elections, this was a very good campaign, and as they got municipalities around 25, it might not be true, but about 25 billion dinars, which they were supposed to invest in infrastructure investments and then they got less funding from the republican budget. With this move, out of those 25 billion dinars, 20 billion were taken. So that's when we talked, that's when you were talking about decentralisation, but with this move, we're going back to centralizing this entire system. I would point out once again that you have stated that the burden of these tax laws will not be felt by citizens, but if we are to see realistically, if it will increase to some extent a fine of the base for paying tax on property, and besides, public enterprises... Time, please. I'm going to finish now. If I look at the municipality of Saint, where I come from, this municipality will lose 61 million dinars. Since you know we're in the Senti coalition, I would recommend you come to us and explain to the citizens of Sainte why there will be no investment and infrastructure investment. For example, out of these 60 million dinars, we could drill one thermal well a year for one term of four wells, with these four wells we could heat the entire municipality of Sent. (President: Please, Mr. Peck, 21 minutes.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16888	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16889	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the SPO parliamentary club will try to be completely objective in considering the new measures of the Ministry of Finance and in this regard we have also consulted Professor Kovacevic, Prof. Stamenkovic, trying to give ourselves answers, which is why we should or should not support this law. There are many things here that create doubt. First, from the political push of the minister, who has found the proposed measures in parliament today to defend accordingly, as in 2011 the SPO parliamentary club and then the SPO MPs voted for the Law on Fiscal Decentralisation, has been promised since thenG17 plus, which later grew into the URS, that everything will be done in order for local self-government to experience that degree of autonomy that they can finance their activities from their local budgets. But with these measures, with this kind of fiscal policy exactly what we stood for and what we voted for in 2011, it cancels out. Our commitment is to a greater team before we, as a political party as early as 2007, brought on the main committee a Declaration on decentralisation of Governments in Serbia, which we have consistently all these years advocated, even supported the proposal by the RS or the initiative to decentralisation of Governments in Serbia, to defend exactly our political views and our programme definitions. Now, it says there will be no more taxes on construction land, but there will be property taxes, so through compensation, which the minister believes will not damage Serbian citizens, he will try to complement Serbia's budget enough to be able as a state to function in the next period. I don't think we should allow local self-governments to decide for themselves how much property tax will be, because then again we leave the possibility of unequal taxation from understanding local self-government how much that tax should be, so we'll find ourselves in a corporate situation, where certain local self-government and 20 times raised taxes on companies. This is also pointed out by the Fiscal Council, because it says - we point to the possibility of deepening horizontal imbalances between local self-government of different degrees of development and size. I think that should pay particular attention to that part, because we have advocated in some previous period for Serbia to develop evenly, for Serbia to be decentralised, and for local self-government to have the highest degree of economic autonomy. The tax on property somehow reminds me of another government law or regulation, I cannot remember exactly when it was decided that every car owner over two thousand cubic metres must pay an additional tax. Then we realized that it hit the poor the most, that it affected the owners, for example, independent trades or independent trades that had vehicles for the transport of goods, and that it did not apply much to the rich. I ask the Minister why, for example, there is no city rent in this law or, as there is in all the world's metropolis, that taxes are paid on a cubatur rather than squared? I'm afraid paying a square rent is the most convenient thing for people who have big malls or buildings, and we know who these people are. I'm going to base my further exposure on this, because, let's say, as in London, I need to tax the space of a shopping center or a building, not a square, or the number of square meters on which these buildings are located. That is exactly what leads to the new issue, which I asked on Tuesday – does the minister think it is possible in the future to tax the richest, their capital and property, and all in order to fight crime and corruption? We talked about the SPO supporting everything that's good. We support this because not one man's agility and determination can be lonely, but also that Mr. Finance Minister, all those people who, using the holes in the law in the previous period, using political ties, have become enormously taxed in another way and introduce the right burdens for all of them who cannot prove the origin of their property. I also support the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister said that soon, by 15 June, a law on the origin of the property, which the SPO advocated in the previous period, would arrive in parliament. So the property tax and the rich's capital should be the basis for Serbia's future economic recovery in the sense of creating a base to fill the budget in the coming period. Here, I'm a fifth-year MP. No year has happened that we haven't had budget rebalances. Minister, if you say in your statement that you thought these measures were sufficient, these fiscal measures of changing fiscal regulations, but that the Fiscal Council was well-intentioned to warn you that there would be a need to rebalance the budget, then it seems to me that you yourself are admitting that you have made a mistake, that you have not evaluated well, and that perhaps these measures were unnecessary, because all of this could have been resolved by budget rebalance. I don't think you're the only one responsible. I repeat again, for these last five years, literally every year we have participated in the budget rebalancing vote, but I think that in the entire campaign, which you are leading for Serbia's economic recovery, you should be more careful and think more about every set of tax laws, all that you have brought in the previous period, went more to the detriment of Serbian citizens than to their advantage. I will leave more time so that I can report to the end of this session, by saying that the MPs' Club SP – DHSS will support the amendment of the President of the Assembly of the Neboj Stefanovic and will support all those amendments that will make these laws better, but that we simply cannot support the proposed amendments to the law in general for reasons that we do not think that they are useful at this point that they could have taken other steps to make the budget more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16890	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16891	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, opportunities in public finances are so difficult and complicated that it is not just a matter of government, which is, of course, the most responsible, and Mr. Dinkic, who is the finance minister. As far as any citizen living in our country is concerned, I disagree with the approach and the way this package of tax laws came to parliament. I think everyone in Serbia should have the opportunity and the right to have full insight into what is happening because the consequences will simply affect every family. We have and it was yesterday the Fiscal Council publicly presented a very big problem. If I understand correctly, 55 billion dinars will be less revenue compared to what was projected by the parliament's budget. Another 20 billion dinars will be less in the budget. On the other hand, one good thing, inflation is less than planned, but it has poor repercussions to public finances. About 5 billion dinars is a matter of increasing the gray or black market and reducing the charge. What is the essence of this Tax Law proposal is that, in fact, 20 billion dinars are taken from the projected revenues of cities and municipalities in Serbia, incomes that were put into local self-government budgets at the end of 2012. That's how much it normally amounts, as a result of the tax cut from 12% to 10%. On the other hand, by increasing the contribution, pension insurance as set out in the Bill should be entered into the Pension Insurance Fund as a source income by new 25 to 27 billion dinars. So, there's a simple bill. In essence, this increase in the Pension Insurance Fund will fall largely on the burden of local self-government and it is unacceptable for Serbia together. Not acceptable, because it's a reduction in the capacity of local self-government, self-government at all. Given how we met with this package of tax laws, we will vote against this law on profit tax, as well as the Law amending the rate of contribution to pension insurance. No doubt it is a very serious and large issue to open the property tax issue that is the original income of towns and municipalities in Serbia. That's why I think this step should have been taken by taking one good way and considering with enough time what's going on, every claim, and that cities and municipalities don't spend money adequately. Let's see where they don't spend it properly. Do they have more employees in administrations? Do they have inefficient public enterprises? What's this about? It's a matter of local self-government. We deeply believe that nothing can be fundamentally changed in Serbia unless millions of people have a clear picture of what is going on and do not decide. Unfortunately, we haven't all had a chance together to face what's important in public finances. Cities and municipalities to keep their budgets will have to raise property taxes. The whole truth is that they don't have to do it and the law gives them the opportunity not to charge a tax on property at all. It's very important that we know how many municipal and urban budgets will enter unsustainable conditions when they lose these, when they drop from 12 to 10%, 16% of the expected income from the property tax, how much should they get? What does that mean for everything cities and municipalities do? I'm not going to bid that, because citizens are less or more familiar with the development of villages and kindergartens, social protection, but also, of course, infrastructure works. It is important that we discuss in a good way everything about our daily life. It's always possible in politics to find easy answers by being accused of them or them, but nothing in life can change, unfortunately. When all this is simple, the largest minus of these 55 billion reduced revenues, in fact less income than expected, which means that citizens spent less in stores in their lives. Traffic in retail has been reduced and VAT has been paid less. According to this idea, in order to remain sustainable city and municipality budgets, these same citizens will have to pay a tax on property more than they have ever paid on houses, on land, on what makes up their gardens. It's a matter that every mayor and every city hall will have to make a decision. I think it would be fair if we all knew it together and when the package of these laws entered the assembly on Monday. I know that in a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, the presidents of municipalities and mayors with you, Mr. Minister, they discussed it, but it wasn't a public matter. It is a good topic today, and it is important that people in Serbia have a clear idea that because we have spent less together in the past months, they will probably face the fact that they have to pay more because they own houses and gardens. Twenty billion dinars. Anyone can calculate what that means for his home budget. Is that justifiable or unwarranted? That's why I think we should have talked about it. That's an important question. I think it's one big resource. The property tax is a big resource. That raises other questions. It opens up questions why we fail to raise some of the GDP where we no longer depend or depend significantly less on external factors, but we have more or less things in our hands. I'm talking about food production first. We made ten and a half billion euros last year in agriculture and the food industry. Serbia's potential is not that it was 50 billion euros in the press yesterday, but 100 billion euros in food production. These are the three current GDP, of all things, including "Fiat", "The Iron" which again works in IT technology and all the services we provide. A simple example, as far as everyone knows more, I live in Capca. There's a hilly part to Krupunje called Pocerina. At this point there's 600 acres under the strawberries. Ten years ago, there were 100 acres. This difference occurred because the city, along with the manufacturers, found a way to extract water that is in quite a serious depth and this irrigation has led to this huge increase in production. For one hectare of strawberries, it is necessary to invest 10,000 euros, or 12 euros, which is the maximum amount given to encourage foreign investment or investment in general. Profits in the last ten years per hectare of strawberries are averaged between 10,000 and 15,000 euros. At 600 acres less than or more thousands of families are producing this fruit. When you divide 10,000 euros into 12 months it's a serious profit for one family of 700 or 800 euros. They have no problem returning 10,000 euros after three years to the name of some incentive, since strawberry is a three-year-old plant. It's just a paradigm. As you can conclude, these six hundred hectares times ten million euros is at least six million euros in net earnings, although it is even more so by selling everything on quantum markets from Moscow to Brussels. To sell by trade chains in half a kilo packings, that profit is doubled or tripled. That's where I'll end up. So the potential is 100 billion euros in food. Four billion euros each year we lose biomass because we don't keep the forests right and we don't use leftovers of agricultural production as energy, four billion euros every year. In order to avoid confusion, measures have also been taken in the past government to create preconditions for increasing food volumes and to create conditions for a fundamental, economically cost-effective and environmentally sustainable exploitation of forests and to collect residues from agricultural production that can be used as energy. Otherwise, it's pretty dangerous here when you go after Sreme after harvesting or harvesting corn, you might get hurt if you run into burning leftovers from agricultural production. They burn anyway. We'd be better off making electricity than that. That's why the past government hired two hundred unemployed foresters and 1600, if I remember correctly, unemployed agronomists and we'd already have significant steps to make that decision. So the question here is how hard we're going into irrigation, because that's the essential prerequisite for increasing food. We have the possibility of a million and 100,000 acres under irrigation. Last year, projects were commissioned for two hundred thousand hectares. I think, Mr. Minister, you signed a contract for some of those surfaces in the United Arab Emirates to be realised. Again, it is essential that we have not opened this debate, that simply every family in Serbia knows what will be the consequences of these laws and why this has happened. The Tax Procedure Act, the MP group of the ULS, believes that the law's intensities are good and that it is good that the tax on deductions in a formal and in a fundamental sense is newly articulated. It will be good for all those who are bonds and the cost of collecting this tax is very important. That's the thing we'll support. We have objections to several provisions. That's why we've put the amendments on, first of all, in terms of delivery. I don't know what it'll look like if the delivery is neat when 15 days after it's delivered to the post office, I think it's against the constitution, but we'll discuss it when the debate is in particular. We have doubts about the idea of creating conditions to be different profits for tax administration officers depending on where they serve and work, but we'll also debate that when the time comes. We also believe that amendments to the Law on corporate tax have been made in the right direction, although the Fiscal Council has significant objections. We think it is good to strengthen the opportunities and incentives that the law gives to finance health, education, humanitarian, sports and other activities. I honestly think it would be good if we narrowed it down even, and I think we have an opportunity here for the amendments to do something about it, I think it's really bad for us as a society all together that, first of all, young people and children who can't perform the operations that are necessary here in the country already have to go abroad. On TV and in the papers, they're trying to secure that money. It would be good to have one focus here for that kind of activity, to motivate all those who are taxpayers of the profit of legal persons, to for these purposes until we find a system solution to the money. I believe that this is a matter of solidarity and that it is good to encourage this problem to be resolved in this way, until we find a way to resolve everything that is a major problem in the entire health care and health care system. Also, incentives for investment in the development of new products and technologies are fully acceptable to us. We'll vote for these things. And the Excise Act is completely adequate. Black market, I'm not sure it's just five billion. It's possible that more than what the Fiscal Council estimated, but I certainly think this Excise Act is going to solve a part of the problem, like last year there was a lot of oil, now it's biofueled, and that thing has to be solved. For that we will support this law. Today or tomorrow, here comes the budget rebalance. About everything that touches every family, every family has to have a chance to get a full notice. That's what we stand for as the most important thing in our public life, not just in politics. We think there's no stable state, no preconditions for a stable economy until people have no idea what's important. The burden of citizens will be increased. People will have to pay more than they've paid so far. We'd better spend three weeks or a month to discuss it. The debate here in parliament is the final of what is the conclusion of what should be done. We will always have the opportunity to face our opinions, but it is important that people know what awaits them. That's why, once again, we're not gonna support these two first laws. It is not fair for state savings to go first by depriving money from cities and municipalities, and then the question of how to further find money that must be the subject of saving, which we will debate here when the bill of rebalancing enters. Serbia is crying out for self-government, for involving citizens in decision-making, for opening space for people to know what's going on with their money. I am sure that Serbia has significantly higher tax capacity, but people cannot be taken by natural means, nor can we win citizens for serious reforms unless we get them to know everything that is important to them. So I appeal, call, and we as a parliamentary group are looking for, to open up everything that is important and important, so that we can let people know what awaits us in one big and joint business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16892	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16893	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, Mr. Minister, as you yourself have mentioned, we fully agree that the discussion on these issues should be transferred from political, demagogue to economic and we always support it, but for this very reason we thought that it was necessary to leave a little more time to at least expert advice within the parties or some individuals who are certain that in every party we understand well in the problem give their opinion. The deadlines we've had, they're not enough to see this problem right. In short, we will look back at the proposed set of laws ahead of us. As far as the general situation in public finances is concerned, as we all know, it is extremely complex and all macroeconomic indicators are absolutely not on our side. The problems are, first and foremost, structural nature and concern the high level of public debt relative to the gross social product, which is about 19 billion now. Of course, that relationship is being manipulated from time to time because of course differences, but I don't want to talk about it right now. The deficit level is, now we see, slightly higher than originally planned, and we have more pensioners than employees, and we fully understand the need to reform the pension system, where you've made some suggestions here, by thinking that they're definitely not going to be enough to solve this problem properly. We have a trading deficit, which last year was about six billion. Platno-Bilance position, too. If we didn't have the diaspora we have and the clues, I think we'd be in an even bigger problem. The growth level is nonexistent, or somewhere around 1%. So it's going to take us 50 years to get back to, say, the 1989 industrial production. In public finances, it is also present that the state is in debt, i.e. public enterprises, at rates where banks are not paid to finance anything other than the state, because the interest paid by it makes every other project completely invaluable for the financial sector. About the causes of these problems we can probably agree on, but the way they're supposed to be solved, I think we're going to have some differences and disagreements. There is a correlation between the factors that treat these laws, whose changes you have proposed, but correlation and causality are two different things. So, the causes of the problems that are mostly on the bulky side of this domain and not in income, I think they should be the subject of the talks, although the amendments to the laws that you propose are mostly treated by the revenue side of the budget. I'd rather look back on the property tax right now. I think he's the key in this set of laws, because he treats the revenues of local self-government and takes action in a part where it shouldn't be made, since a large number of municipalities have a lot of problems in financing, mostly investment activities. This level of funding, which is now coming out of the budget of local self-government, is about to reduce investment activities in these municipalities, which we think is definitely not good. In particular, in my local self-government, this means about two million euros, i.e. the paveding of several routes, several sewage systems in villages that do not have it, because 80% of the municipality's funds usually go to financing current expenditures. After the 2011 Law on the financing of local self-government, I think now the trend has shifted, first by abolishing parafiscal burdens, and now these legal proposals and that municipalities are being reduced to some offices of the republican government. We will be in a situation very soon so that local self-governments could be more or less abolished in a number of cases, which I really don't think should be the flow of modern democracy, because the free cities existed in the Middle Ages and I don't see how it can be in 2013 in Serbia. What's also a problem with the Property Tax Act is that successful cities with a large number of employees are being punished here, as it reduces the possibility of replacing the deficit in the budget that will arise as a result of the change of the Law on Income Tax. Belgrade and Novi Sad, where real estate prices are extremely high, will be able to compensate for the budget deficit with 0.2% and 0.4%, but I am sure that the municipalities where the housing square is 200 euros will not be able to do so. I am not sure that these compensations that are scheduled to take place, i.e. by increasing the property tax and reducing the income tax on citizens, will give extremely negative effects on the budget of each local self-government, especially the smaller, which Serbia has the most. What's also the problem is that this law is passed for half a year. Public procurement has already been carried out in municipalities and budgets have been planned. You yourself have passed a law that very much limits the possibility of prolonging payments to suppliers. Now, more or less, local self-government will have a problem that they will not be able to comply with the deadlines they set themselves, because they will happen to have a lack of income in the local budget, which will also create major problems. All in all, what would make some predictability, and foreign investors, as far as we know, are extremely interested that they can essentially plan not only political but also economic opportunities. If there is, say, an agreement with some local self-government to make certain investments in an industrial zone, so now these investments cannot be made, I think there will be several bad examples in Serbia where a few foreign investments will be reduced for reasons that the place will not be able to achieve what it has promised. As I said, instead of focusing on the revenue side of the budget, what we should analyse is exactly the expenditure side, and then we're going to get to JAT,Serbiagas, Railways, EPS, and not to talk about the republican administration, so the expenditures costing our budget and sovereign guarantees and borrowings and irrationality of nearly one billion euros are losses. It is precisely this opportunity to find additional funds, i.e. not to be affected by the funds of local self-government that may be more necessary. Because when you go outside Belgrade, you realize that there are many cities and villages where there are no elemental conditions for life, where roads hardly exist, and about infrastructure networks, sewers and plumbing that I don't talk about. As for the other laws, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, we have proposed several things in the amendments. What's also interesting is that everywhere in the world, the interest paid by citizens on loans is a deductible item in the income tax of citizens. It's a world practice that I think exists in all modern tax systems. I don't see why it could be possible for us either, because legal persons have the opportunity to deduct interest because they are entering the balance of success as a cost, we don't see the reason why they can't do that to citizens, that at least 50% of their income tax base is recognised as paid interest and that it is the basis for this amount being reduced. It's something that exists everywhere, and I don't know why it can't be in Serbia. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, as you know, the situation in the pension system is extremely alarming. We have more pensioners than employees. Also, if employees in the public sector were kicked out and certain irrationalities in companies that are yet to be privatised, I think those relations would be much worse. Anyway, it's not a problem that there's a lot of pensioners, but it's an exceptional problem that she has less employment. With this level of unemployment, I think the pension system is definitely about to collapse. I don't know how the current government thinks it's dealing with this problem, but I know that much more developed countries than we do have this problem, especially because of the negative demographic structure, and I'm pretty sure that it's going to be quick, maybe from international organisations, types of IMF and World Bank, the appeal that something more radical and drastic is going to happen in this sector, because what we're doing right now may be a short-term solution, but the problem remains in the long term. As for taxes and contributions, they remain at a very high level and whoever you are talking to in Serbia by foreign investors are extremely unhappy with the fact that the interventions in relation to net income are extremely high. If it decreased by us, the taxpayers' base would be expanded because a large number of people in Serbia are working on a minimum, or real profits are not reported, and a good share of the profits are paid in black. I don't know if anyone's been doing a precise analysis of what would have been achieved if these expenditures had been cut more seriously, but I'm sure they would have come to a level of tax revenue maybe even higher than they are today because they would have finally signed up for real employee earnings, not minimals, which would have allowed people to become at one point and creditable, which they're not now. Tax rates in Serbia are not regressive, i.e. the more you earn, the lower the tax rate. They're usually progressive in the world. With this set of laws, this changes somewhat, but far from being enough, because I think the modern practice in the tax policy domain is that the tax should be increased, or the tax rate to be higher as possible. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and we agree that the proposed amendments are good, that it should move to electronic business, or tax application, and so far the Tax Administration is far from being able to carry out tasks in the manner in which the tax administration should do so in a normal country. We have the IRS as a black box. There's little to know. They're both prosecutors and judges, and when you talk to entrepreneurs, I think you'll hear a lot of bad things about how the IRS treats them, so any level of modernisation in this aspect and the public administration sector is very welcome and we'll support that. In any case, what should be the ultimate objective of your efforts to bring some changes in this segment is that Serbian citizens finally know the difference between taxes and harassers, because as taxpayers you have certain rights and obligations, to pay taxes in a country that will allow you to get schools, hospitals, roads, infrastructure, etc. The state of the taxpayer is something in normal countries that citizens are proud of. For the money they pay the state they want to get certain services. When you pay for a hack, you only pay for it because someone can come and burn down your house and take away everything you own. There is still a big confusion in Serbia over the two terms, as citizens still experience tax in the way it was tax in the Middle Ages, but for completely justified reasons because they do not see where these funds are actually spent in the republican budget because they are paid in a very non-transparent way, from aircraft to the Hague indictees, giraffes, Miladin Kovacevic, etc. Whoever cares about whether to pay taxes, a large number of citizens probably have a question mark when to do so. All in all, as I said, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration will also be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax Act. We think the suggestions are good. For the first three, as far as we're concerned, these are mostly cosmetic changes and bring nothing new but a lack of income for local self-government. Local self-government is in extremely difficult shape and I don't want to talk about the province. As for the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16894	National MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16895	Dear President, honourable ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, that the discussion of the set of tax laws, which we have on the agenda today, cannot be talked about unless we are at all talking about a complete economic context in our country. The colleagues who spoke before me, and the minister himself spoke and gave us basic facts and information about the need for a nearer budget rebalance, that the budget was not filled as planned, especially when it comes to VAT and excise duties. I would also like to introduce a small dose of optimism for a concrete projection of economic developments in the coming year, but also in the coming period and what the government of the RS and parliament themselves need to focus on so that reforms can be implemented in a quality and good way in our country and our economy. I would primarily like to present some data that are positive, which is that we have one major increase in exports, which has given exports of road vehicles, an increase of 168m euros, which is 50.8% of total increase, electrical machines and appliances, devices 29%, mineral water and waste of metal 26%, various finished products 18%, metal products 18%, telecommunications and devices 14, which is a good base that, with one policy of attracting additional foreign direct investment, but also what the IMF has given as a recommendation in the context of their visit that took place in the previous 20 days, which is that we need more dynamicly to implement regulatory reforms, that we need more dynamicly to implement public sector and public enterprises reforms, especially in the context of the process and the corporate process, and of course what we need, labour market reforms. As for the very set of tax laws that we have on the agenda, what is good and what we will in any case support as SDPS is that we are doing and introducing financial discipline, to strengthen the stability of the PIO Fund and to strengthen tax morality not only in citizens but also in those who are full of the budget and create additional value, and these are particularly small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I think this is just a phase in the process of creating a quality environment for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. What is very important for the SDPS is to work intensively on a redistribution of the burdens of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and within that, as a party with our strategic partners from the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, but also other trade unions, we will give proposals and suggestions for this set of laws, but also for laws that will be passed in the coming period so that labour-intensive industries are able to be less burdened by those who earn the least, so that these companies that employ such workers can be more relaxed. In any case, we support that redistribution, when it comes to burdens, goes to the asset account relative to discharge, when it comes to workloads. What I would give as one suggestion and appeal, not only to the Ministry of Finance and Economy, but also to all other ministries, is that such laws, which concern the country's fundamental socio-economic policies, which are of crucial importance for the development of the economy, must necessarily, as it is practice in the EU and in all developed European countries, go to the social and economic council, because, as we all know, no such law can come into public debate and come into debate with parliament if the European Social and Economic Committee does not go and if it is not approved by Business Europe and if it is not approved by the European Confederation. I ask and appeal that workers' representatives, therefore, trade unions and employers' representatives, be even more intensively involved in the process of passing such laws. As far as income tax is concerned, colleagues before me have talked enough about it. We'll have an increase in the stability of the PIO fund through an increase in contributions from 22% to 24%, a reduction in income tax from 12% to 10%. Of course, in this way local self-government will lose revenue, but in any case, there will be some 10 billion dinars in that domain that will cover both the burdens and expenditures that will be incurred through the abolition of those so-called. parafiscal or quasi-fiscal charges and fees. What will be the proposal and what the SDPS will stand for in the next period and the framework of this set of laws that we have today, but in any case new laws and amendments to be made, it is that we will go with a concrete proposal and a constructive proposal to fully disburse minimum earnings. Of course, not in a populist way that we just suggest it, of course we have to find that money and compensate for it if we release minimum earnings on another side. Where's the other side? The other side is located in the number of people who receive more than five average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, which is somewhere more than 300,000 dinars, where if you clearly mathematically calculate, the current rate of income tax that accounts for more than five average earnings in the Republic of Serbia is 48.3%. We support, in any case, this reduction in the minimum profit burden, which from 59.3% to 58.9%, for average earnings, has reduced that percentage to 0.2% and to profits from 100 and more thousands of 0.01%. But we have to work on a solution where we will charge both entrepreneurs and large businesses and labour-intense sectors of industry, by doing and making a solution to put minimum profits out of tax burden. In any case, this is a shift, and we consider this to be one process that is positive and will help labour-intense industries and entrepreneurs overcome the problems they face better and better quality. One of the most important changes is also a significant administrative improvement, reduction of administrative costs, implementation of tax obligations through self-taxation of income from independent activity for entrepreneurs who run business books and on capital gains. We believe that this is a continuation, and in any case we support everything that involves the guillotine of regulations, and that guillotine of regulations refers to the part that reduces and the amount of forms that are being submitted, and so far there have been 35 tax returns per deduction and electronic registration, so that we will introduce greater discipline, the administrative costs of 1.5 billion dinars will be reduced, and in any case we think that we are going towards this kind of environment creation, when administration and bureaucracy is at issue, which is favourable and attractive, both for domestic and foreign investors. When we talk about the law on amendments and additions to the property tax law, we fully support the elimination of distortions and irregularities due to different tax treatment, the definition of unrealistic tax bases for taxing property and, in any case, the realistic evaluation of tax exemptions, particularly legal persons and agricultural land. In this way one more real, one better location of resources will be implemented and citizens will be motivated to place those assets in favour of creating additional value, not that this property stands, that it does not bring any money, no funds, and that, ultimately, the state does not collect any tax and no more tantium than such property. In any case, in the context of the strategy of developing the economy of the Republic of Serbia, we have, and I hope that we will work dynamically on this project, creating an entrepreneurial society, a society where we will employ all capacities, both human and financial and natural, and not creating and returning to a period of several years ago, where we had an official society and where especially young people were addressed exclusively to the public sector, and not to that sector that is most needed for our country, which is, in any case, developing the economy of each country, which is the private sector and private initiative. When it comes to entrepreneurs, SDPS, as everybody knows, is oriented and will always support legal solutions concerning the incentives of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Social Insurance Act, we support the proposal that those businessmen who carry out their own work, introduce a payment of income tax, therefore, on personal income and to separate it from capital gains. Thus, as projections are made and done, the burden of entrepreneurs by one-third will be reduced. With a set of laws like this, solutions that look at first sight, like some colleagues said, as cosmetic changes, I don't think so. I think our country must develop day by day. I think we should get better every day. If we adopt such laws and solutions, it will be enough for us to be better at least a little bit each day, to reach one level of economic development, to increase GDP, to increase the inflow of foreign and direct investments, so that we can carry out our obligations, so that we can reduce in one quality way both the economic sustainability and the fiscal deficit and the public debt. In any case, these are some solutions that will gradually, hopefully, give some real and good results. In any case, this set of laws refers to the small business sector, to the incentive, I hope, and new employment, to the creation of a quality environment that will make Serbia a better investment destination, which in any case will also define the position of the SDPS, that the biggest problem of our country is solved, which is the problem the minister was just talking about, that is the problem of unemployment. He is not and we cannot see him as a problem through the International Labour Organisation methodology and define him as 22, 23, 25%. We are aware that in some municipalities, in some parts of our country unemployment goes up to 70% and 80%. That's why I'm a moderate optimist, and that's why I want to give incentives and incentives to both the government and this Parliament, that we have more "Fiyats" and more "Cooper Tylers" and more "Falkeys" and more "Gucias", because only in this way, not only with administrative definition and improvement of fiscal regulation and the creation of a favourable environment, our country can develop and solve the biggest problem of our country, which is the problem of unemployment. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, along with its partners from the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia and other trade unions who support it, will support this set of laws in the voting day, of course, along with these proposals and suggestions which my colleague Slavica Savic will define in further discussion, in order to make the legislative proposals best in the interests of citizens and in the interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16896	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16897	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act are greatly affected in the current manner and procedure of applying this tax form, thus giving it importance in the overall structure of public revenues charged in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, this tax form has so far not been of great importance, compared to other tax forms, as an unexplainable form of public income. To some extent, this was changed by the adoption of the Law on the financing of local self-government, when it was found that the collection and control of a part of it so-called. property tax in property tax statistics, i.e. real estate, land and other rights is assumed by local self-government, i.e. The local tax administration, and this tax form has become the executive public income of the local self-government unit. The amendments and additions to the laws that are before us are largely affected by the important elements of the entity of that tax, by largely extending the subject of taxation and changing the way in which the tax base is determined, which should lead to an increase in the volume of public revenues collected under this tax. The law extends the subject matter of taxation by making the subject matter of the tax liability, in addition to the right of property and other rights in immovable matters, now also becoming a certain factual situation – state-owned immovable objects. Such a legal solution is necessary for two reasons. The first reason is the fact that in Serbia there are still many illegally built objects on which property rights have not been established for the benefit of those who built them, and which will be done in the perspective by applying the provisions of the almost adopted Law on special conditions for enrolment of rights on buildings built without a building permit. If the provisions of the now applicable Property Tax Act were to be applied literally, this circle of the person would remain outside the scope of the taxpayer of this tax, leading to an unfair distribution of the tax burden. The second lies in the fact that since 1 January 2014, local self-government has ceased the right to charge compensation for the planning and use of construction land, which could be a burden on local budgets. In that sense, the subject of tax on property now represents the entire building land on which buildings were built, not land over ten acres, as has been the case so far. In this way, so far, the compensation for the regulation of construction land is effectively incorporated into the very property tax that citizens and legal persons will pay. As regards the basis of the property tax, it appears to be a twist in the way in which it is determined. In this sense, the bill introduces two categories of obligors - obligors who do not keep business books and those who run them, and according to that fact and determines how to establish the basis. For the obligors who keep and maintain business books, in accordance with international accounting standards, the value of immovableity shows by applying the so-called so-called “Immobilization”; Fair methods, i.e. demonstrates their market value, the basis of the tax would represent such a displayed value. In all other cases, the basis would be determined by applying the uniform criteria provided for by the law. This solution represents a radical newspaper in relation to the existing provisions, which, for the basis of the corporate book-keeping tax, took the accounting value of the facility in their business books and for the reason that this accounting value was shown by the formula – the purchase value minus the amount of depreciation. Such a way of determining the basis was at a distance with the real value of the facility precisely because many of them created value on the market exceeded the shown book value multiple times. With that in mind, it introduces obligations for local self-government units to execute so-called. zoning, i.e. that parts of their territory are classified in territorial bands according to municipal equipment, transport infrastructure, and that the basis of the immovable tax determines on the basis of the average market price of the corresponding immovableity, which would apply to houses, apartments, land, business buildings, etc., achieved in the relevant zone from 1 January to 30 September. At the same time, the obligation of local self-government to publish acts that carry out zoning and determine the average market price per zone for each calendar year in its official publication on the website. At the same time, the establishment of a tax base is also arranged where local self-government has not determined the zone or market price of immovable property per zone. This creates certain certainty for both citizens and businesses, as regards the level of the tax liability, on the one hand, while on the other hand a single procedure is prescribed and the way in which the local self-government of this tax will be calculated and the provisions governing the tax procedure are specified. With regard to inheritance and gift taxes, the subject of taxation is extended in the same way as in the case of real estate tax, i.e. It extends the scope of rights and effective conditions, which are the subject of heritage and gift traffic. It shall be governed by what is not considered a gift within the meaning of the provisions of the law and the tax exemption is defined by the introduction of a provision on the transfer of assets, which is carried out on the basis of the division of a common substance between spouses, the tax shall not be paid. However, the proposed provision does not comply with the applicable provisions of the Constitution and the laws governing family relations, and in this part we intervened with the amendment aimed at bringing it into line with the said regulations and better precision. With regard to the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, the subject matter of taxation is clearly defined, as well as the forms of transport of rights are exempt from taxation. At the same time, the tax exemption for the transport of rights carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Privatisation, Expropriation and Reimbursement shall also be determined, and the provisions of the Law shall thus be brought into line with the rules laid down later in this matter. As one of the key newspapers in the process of determining the tax on immovable property, the law introduces so-called self-taxation for taxpayers who keep business books. In this way, taxpayers will be obliged to determine for themselves and pay taxes within the prescribed deadlines, thus making local self-governments make huge savings by avoiding making and printing special solutions and making it compulsory to deliver them personally to taxpayers. At the same time, better tax collection dynamics will be achieved, enabling local self-government to be more stable sources of current funding. At the same time, the deadlines for submitting a tax application for taxpayers on inheritance and gift and tax on the transfer of absolute rights from ten to 30 days to the day of the creation of the tax liability are extended. The law provides and specifys the obligations of all state and other bodies, in particular the courts responsible for the clearance of signatures on contracts and other legal transactions carried out by the traffic of immovable property, to supply a copy of these acts to the local tax administration for the purpose of establishing the creation of a tax liability, and also sanctioning that obligation by prescribing criminal penalties for persons responsible in state and other bodies. At the same time, the law introduces the obligation of public notebooks as persons who will be solely competent from the following year for the certificates of signature and the placing of public records to traffic immovableity, to deliver those acts to the local tax administration, thereby harmonising with the provisions of this and the laws governing the position of public notebooks. As one of the most important newspapers, there is also the obligation of local tax administrations to run a united database of the value and property market, as well as the obligation of the Tax Administration to run a united database at the level of the Republic of Serbia so that there is a one-time review of the market price of immovable property, since these data are based on the application of a series of regulations and the exercise of citizens' rights to come out of the framework for tax matter. These are social protection rules, education, health care, etc. With regard to the analysis of the effects of the laws implemented by the proposer, the view is that the proposed solutions should be profitablely neutral in relation to the part of the real estate tax collected from citizens, i.e. former persons. This, as it has already been pointed out, has ceased since 1 January 2014, the right of local self-government to determine and charge compensation for the construction land. The same, by applying the provisions of this law, would be incorporated into the real estate tax that citizens would pay. However, here I have several dilemmas with regard to legal persons would result in a considerable increase in the amount of tax since the way the basis could be determined could be up to 2.5 times higher. What the promoter needs to bear in mind is that for certain categories this will be an unpopular law, i.e. unpopular tax, a tax which enters into the very substrate of property i.e. Untaxed income, but static. Only the right that I am bound to possess. With that in mind, many countries in the environment don't have such laws. Another fact is that changes to this law are trying to replace to some extent the loss that local self-government will suffer by the proposed tax reduction from 12% to 10% and that tax was one of the most important sources of income for them. Regardless of these several objections, I will personally support this bill's voting day. I hope the other members of the parliamentary group will join me. I've also left time if it's necessary to participate in discussions under other laws. I would only ask the minister, if he can answer now, for my own sake, and for our citizens' sake, to comment on whether there could really be an increase in taxes by 2.5 times and whether the local self-government will replace the loss of these self-government by reducing the income tax. What's your assessment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16898	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16899	To use it to answer this question of yours. Each municipality, each city must individually consider its situation and then measure what measures should be taken. The fact is that there will be a forecast of GDP growth of 2% this year, but the fact is that incomes are lower both for the Republic and for local self-government. It's not evenly distributed. This surplus I was talking about in the accounts of local self-government in the first four months has been achieved in over 100 municipalities, but there are municipalities where there are deficits. Those municipalities that have fewer opportunities will have to save more. There is simply no universal rule, the property tax law allows progress to be made, more taxed by those who have more, and normally those who do not have that burden reduced. So there's a whole series of mechanisms to determine different rates and criteria for applying the property tax. As for the property tax for legal persons, there will certainly be an increase in that fee and it will be fairer because the accounting value of the company, and we all agree that did not measure the real value of the company, but there is protection against the arbitral application of this type of tax. So the fact is, the municipalities still have 80% of the salary tax. If certain municipalities don't do anything to attract an investor through faster procedures for issuing building permits, through various land releases to build new halls, the situation will be difficult. Because in a situation where one of the sources of income, which is 80% of the salary tax in the stagnant scenario, it is clear that it is bad, but it gives the possibility for those who are trying to bring more investors into their municipality to make an increase there. There are municipalities where this reduction in the profit tax rate from 12% of 10% will not cause a problem because they have made more investment in the meantime, have more employees to single out at a lower rate of more tax. The problem is where there are no such activities. I must also point out that this change has the least impact on the position of the poorest municipalities because they depend predominantly on this income, but on transfers that remain exactly the same. So there's no universal rule here. The property tax is a local tax and 100% of the municipalities decide on it, and the Republic only gives the basics and gives the amount of the maximum rate that can be applied, and through various variations in municipal decisions, this selection can be made. We just wanted to keep in mind that the compensation for the city building land was lifted from January 1st, that the municipalities had instruments that they could use. Will the municipalities benefit? To what extent will they use? It depends on the decisions of the local self-government itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16900	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16901	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Dinkic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think you've been more honest, Dinkic, than those of your first 15 minutes here in the Assembly. And what is the situation in this country is best shown by the atmosphere in the congregation. There's no life here, and that's what the problem is. We're discussing the most serious problem in society without any energy. If there's no energy here between us, what it can be like in the country and it can be functional. You said a lot about those taxes, but I'll talk about it later. Come on, let's try to answer the question first – why is Serbia where you've left a lot of silence despite what you said for the first time – why is it like it is today? I mean, Mr. Dinkich, that we have a problem with the management of the country, with leadership. I think we talked about it last year in this post-election period. Who's leading Serbia today? When I get an answer to the question of whether they are able to lead it, then we will face an even more difficult question – and what is the goal of this country. All that lies behind your tax laws is actually the price the country pays for the incompetence and responsibility of the politicians who led it, I wouldn't limit it to the government that was formed last year. That incompetence and impotence has far deeper roots. Unfortunately, there is an almost genetic predisposition to our policy. In fact, in 15 minutes of your performance, you said that we no longer have public finances, that the system fell apart, and that what you're trying to do now is actually the only way to make this breakup go away. We've talked about these questions for years, Mr. Dinkic. We weren't lonely on that subject. Maybe he can go through with Kosovo - we lied to you, so what. But it can't be with the economy. The economy is an uncompromising crystal clear indicator, a state in every society, even in this one. What is the economy of this country? She's in the hands of the people who lead her, in a political sense, but also in that business. She's not in the hands of the business world. The fate of our economy is not decided by speculators on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, it does not exist. We now need to pass laws here that will allow the state to continue on the matter so that this government can extend the undeniable breakdown to another. I don't think you as finance minister can solve problems alone in the Serbian economy. Where's our prime minister? Where's the first vice president? Is this topic so irrelevant that there isn't a single minister near you? So when we talk about leadership, I'll tell you when our prime minister shows up at the European Parliament, he leaves the impression of a child from Disneyland. And that's the problem. When the first Deputy Prime Minister, who is actually the prime minister of this country, tweets that he doesn't care that your budget is empty and he doesn't care that his promise costs 80m euros, you as finance minister. What are you gonna do? Let's see how Serbia is today. You commended the National Bank. Why? Inflation year, April of last year, April of this year 12%. The biggest in Europe. No employment rate, the largest in Europe. Youth unemployment rate, the largest in Europe. Public debt is still growing. You failed in your intention to stop him, you failed in your intention to reduce budget deficits. Why? Because those who lead the country want to rule, not change it. You're talking about some positive indicators, without too much euphoria. A small growth in the gross social product and you know for yourself what it is based on, on the work of a company that was launched in Kragujevac, you are talking about export growth, behind that export growth, in fact, exports of the company and minor exports before it started working, but at the same time you know that this situation is already unsustainable. Where are the solutions? One of your assistants, Milice Bisic, saw some other resources, so she tried to tax another apartment, so now she introduces a tax on an apartment without amortising its value and responsibility for it to local self-government. Well, you know what, when you define a right, then you're responsible for it, not the one who calls for it. People don't know what it's all about today, but they'll know when they get their first tax payments, so when they see how much the apartment costs in downtown Belgrade. And it's not proof of its value, it's too high the price of the policy that's being run here. With the way your government rules, public opinion researchers say the country is satisfied and that's the paradox. People believe in you while they're getting harder and worse. What is this trust based on? Well, that trust is based on a transfer of responsibility. So many times you said it was the previous government. How many times did your coalition partners say the country was in bad shape because others robbed it? But it can't take too long. The Brussels Agreement has been signed and it has been completed, in fact, the only serious mission of your ruling coalition. No one else could have done it except Nikolic, Dacic and Wolfie. But it's not enough and it shows your tax code set. Offer Serbia an answer to the problems of 20 years ago, so that it will work normally today. The fact that today is the supposed advantage and virtue of your ruling coalition is something we talked about 20 years ago. Like, seven years ago, Mr Dinkic was talking about re-industrilling, restructuring of public enterprises, professionalising public enterprises, transforming stock companies, freezing wages and pensions, when they were at 450 or 500 euros, so there was no willingness to go that way, in targeted inflation of 2%. We're here now, where we are today. You're talking about the ambition to re-industrate Serbia. Who's gonna do that? Is there a businessman in our society who isn't flogged and dragged through the mud? Because it was politically cheaper and more useful. Who's gonna do that? Or are we going to import them from the world? So what country did it? You're talking about the need for people to take over and no longer avoid laws. Well, you've created preconditions for something like that. You pulled the fiscal cash registers from one sector of our economy, which one minute he ran out of that cash, I'm working for cash. But first you have to answer the question, you know that's what Warren Bafen said -- why does he leave everything to America? Because I created everything with the support of my country. Why do people pay for this country? To lead them astray for 30 years? And then a completely destroyed, broken misery offers them charity. Tell me, Mr. Dinkich, when you're talking about exports. Here, I see that everyone in the congregation supports it, accepts it as one reasonable goal. What is the perspective of our economy on the market outside Serbia, if it is known that at the ten-year level, dinar depression is 70% and cumulative inflation is 170%? Well, that means our national currency is highly overrated. Maybe it's not popular to say that. But we will hardly find our place on the market in the world until we become competitive. And the spine of our competitiveness is with quality, unfortunately and price. Do we have a deal with the unions? We don't have it. What kind of deal do we have with the unions? To keep the restructuring of 120,000 people, to keep that property going down for years. You're talking about the construction industry and its difficult situation. Why is he in a difficult situation? Let's see who the leaders are in this business again? Those who think about it. Those who need to create an environment to survive. This town needs 100,000 apartments. They grow up with their parents and share those children's rooms and form their families there. How is it possible that a country that's so infrastructured and we're standing in a failed construction industry, that people don't have a job? It's an organization issue. I can't have clowns running it. They may have been successful and professional once, but today the clowns are for fun. That's what you as a politician have allowed to vote for such a ruling coalition. I'm sorry, let your government fail before this country. Perhaps I would offer you to step out of that government and together ask people for support for a different path in this country, that I don't know, that there are enough of those who are willing to vote for every little bit if it guarantees them some political security. We don't need this debate. What if a normal man told you, when you came up with the idea of increasing VAT, they warned you of negative effects and at the same time it was clear that it was necessary because the funds were destroyed, empty? Does it matter who's responsible? Of course it is, but how is it possible that we're dealing with Sartide today? Do you know where Nemanja Kolesar is today? He's been in jail for two months, five times mentioning his name in a thousand-page report. It's there because it's a price to pay for this society to maintain the illusion of fighting for justice, which should replace empty pockets. Let me ask you something, how more important is who ruined one factory than who ruined the country and 20 years of our lives? Because that's the priority imposed by those who did it. Solve first in your ruling coalition what you want with this Serbia to do, and then come before us and say, "It's hard, there's no money." All of us, in addition to the political differences that are great between us, have a lot in common. All right, traitors, you'll always find a place for someone new, in the meantime, they've joined you. That accident that's coming, we shouldn't wait for it to explode in our faces. People in this country who live should know that there is a parliament that has serious and responsible people with major political differences, but some common goals. Your government didn't offer us that, and that's why we're going from today to tomorrow, from budget rebalances last year to the budget we talked about, every time we talked about it the same way. Great intentions, inexhaustible. Why does the Fiscal Council support, along with certain fences, concerns about how local self-government will function tomorrow? Why does he support your laws? Because of what he said yesterday. No one should worry about someone's willingness to speak openly about the state of the country. Panic is not the result of a difficult situation in which someone is found, but of feelings of without exit, feelings of disorientation, absence of perspective. There's no plan here. Serious tax reform can only be effective if it is part of a broad reform process that does not exist. We can't support your laws, first of all because of that, not because we don't think we should go back to the central budget, first of all, that the central has those rights that we talked about and that we defended in 2011. You can't, Mr. Dinkic, you passed the law back then, it was your political project. You're talking about how someone abused that freedom you gave him. You are responsible for this, we warned you that this would happen. But now that you're doing this, you're not being honest. You're reducing income tax from 12 to 10, about 16%, what's the base? Forty-five billion. You're raising the PIO Fund by 2 points as well. What's the base? Five hundred fifty billion. But before that, let what's called the State Summit meet. Here's the president of the assembly, find this president of the state, Dacic, who knows where he is in the world, so sit down and talk. You say you have a billion in your budget. Does that mean that this billion is operational or that billion is just part of the money that you have and which is much less than what this society needs? I think this is different. Let's see together what we're going to do with the hardware store in Smedereva. There's our Ranka Savik. Every day he's with the workers of the hardware store. These are people who know better than any of us how sustainable that model is now being offered. You're looking for an investor. How much is this country gonna cost? Can we say, okay, we're behind that hardware store, but then it's not enough 150 million. We need to see where the internal market is for its products, because there's nothing on the outside to look for because they're huge surpluses. Is she technologically capable of surviving in this time? If it isn't, why isn't it? So let's draw a line and say, "How much does it cost?" If it's too expensive, let's repeat the alternative. You have one strange quality and you and your entire government. As a rule, you pay much more attention to the public sector and to those who do not work, but to those who remain on their feet despite everything. I think it's great that in your government's period, most Serbs realize that thieving still doesn't pay off, and if I think that often the examples that have been used are actually victims, but under your government, it's not worth it. That's what the problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16902	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16903	I'll be done in a minute. It's hard this time, and it's clear that you yourself can't answer it, not even before when you were in a much better position that wasn't possible. We condemn such great disrespect for the entire government on such a big issue as the country's tax reform in such a difficult economic situation. Out of the question of support, don't count on the understanding of LDP because it's clear that none of you are thinking of changing the general course that this country is taking, which leads to the Fiscal Council, that we don't get so personal, called by means of disaster and economic bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16904	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16905	Of course, it is your right to determine these laws, if you already mention the Fiscal Council and you yourself said that he supported these laws, and yet you do not want to vote for them, I simply suggest that you are not co-existent, but it is your right, as is the right of every MP. I've been very open, as you know. I said that the Fiscal Council supported these laws, so logic should be that they should vote, but that there are other issues to be discussed and that have to be addressed, as I also said in the presentation. So, with some things, let me tell you right now, in your presentation, I agree, and I'll say what I disagree with. First of all, the situation is difficult, it's not easy, all of our citizens know it, but it's absolutely not dramatic or catastrophic, as you're trying to say. Why am I saying that? I heard that your MP, Mr. Djuric, held a press conference where he said, if that's true, I wasn't really there to hear it personally, so I was told, that it was not supposed to be in the next month and a half to pay off pensions and salaries. I don't know if that's exactly what you said. It's simple, I was told you said at a press conference. That's not absolutely true if you said that, because I said in the opening statement, if you were listening, that we have an operational surplus liquidity in the budget on today of 1,250,000 euros or in dinars of 140 billion dinars. If the deficit for the first four months, as I said, was 78 billion dinars on a republican level, or 60 billion at a consolidated level, it is easy to calculate that 140 billion dinars is more than enough to pay regular salaries and pensions in this country. The fact is, it would be better if we had more maneuveric space for other things, because wages and pensions are something to mean. They're not tall and it's something that's not a problem to pay off. The problem is how to reduce the deficit and how to allow for the long term to have stability. So, never, ever, as I run public finances, will I let you think moon after month. We'll always have at least six months in advance enough money and we'll have to renew it so that we can carry out the basic obligations of the state, I mean, first of all, payouts and pensions. I agree with everyone who criticises and says, including the Fiscal Council, that it is not enough and that changes are needed. I absolutely agree that the finance ministry, in any country, cannot just solve problems. What don't I agree with? What's happening to us about public finances, first of all, didn't fall apart. They're in trouble, but they didn't fall apart. Why didn't they fall apart? Because we have an answer to the problem and because we're going to alleviate it. Can we eliminate him in a short time? We can't. Last year's inherited deficit was 7.75% of gross domestic product. If you're reading the IMF analysis, it's clearly in it. Can we make a miracle? I tried, really. We made a plan. I didn't expect any revenue to fall to that extent. There were mistakes in some planning, first of all in profit. We did not expect that the profitability of the company was so reduced, but there were also a lot of objective circumstances, which is that 64% of the products we export to the euro area, and there are literally almost all countries in recession. Secondly, and this export, as I said, has been increased, we have increased VAT vomiting. All that when it accumulates, the growth of the gray economy also speaks in favour of what the head of your parliamentary group said. And that's that it's impossible for one ministry to just solve it. So the gray economy can't be solved if the finance minister... He has the greatest responsibility for it, of course, but he has to stand behind it all the people, and that means the whole government. Why the whole nation? Because when we close down one of our own or Chinese or any illegal store, don't let them whine to me tomorrow why it's done, and this is where we're asked to have enough money for some agricultural subsidies, which are important, or for capital investments. So you can't finance anything from anything. The fact that we are about to set up financial discipline and that many will complain about it, should be fair and honest and say – without this financial discipline, without the protection of those who regularly pay taxes, our country has no chance of being better. We need to establish order here. They're not all the same. Those who are good should be rewarded, and those who break the law or avoid the law, regardless of the situation, simply, we must sanction. I didn't, I admit part of my responsibility, I wanted to go straight ahead, as I did from 2004 to 2006, when I was finance minister, thinking it was a difficult situation, let's let people live. However, in the end, it comes down to the fact that if there is no money then some important public functions will suffer, that there will be less money for some vital investment. I definitely cut it now, a month ago, we're gonna go and there's no dilemma. There must be no tolerance for the gray economy, and especially for those who are not registered to carry out their activity. I know that those who, say, bake meat without paying any taxes aren't some rich people, but the fact is, there are also those who pay taxes. It has to be a loyal competition. If they can do one, they have to do the other. This may sound like heresy, but not everyone can be entrepreneurs. There are capable people who can do this, and you're right that we have to support capable and honest entrepreneurs. We can't stamp that class, but there are those who think they're entrepreneurs, and that's because they don't pay pension contributions to their workers or pay their salaries on black. They're not real entrepreneurs. They're not capable enough to be entrepreneurs. The truth is something I stand for. The second thing I want to tell you is that I will never let it happen when I run public finances in Serbia, which I have shown in the last term, that what you called an accident explodes in the face. Not in Serbia, while I run finance, the accident explodes in my face because it would have happened if I hadn't proposed those laws to the Assembly, but that I was acting crazy and letting things go, and if I didn't, as I will, suggest a whole series of measures to the government how to further, apart from what we're doing here now, reduce costs and budget deficits. When you mentioned Smedereva and Želizar and asked how much this would cost the country, first, you must within your club to discuss what your opinion was about, because Ranka Savic has repeatedly asked the question – when you will do something with Jelizar, 5,000 families are at stake. I didn't say you didn't explicitly state what you thought about it, but I'm asking you to tell me what you'd do if you were in our shoes. Would you close Jellyzar down and reduce the cost of the state or start it, as we did and have the costs we pay, but we gave the chance that when the economic cycle changes, and the fact is, and you said well, that the world's steel industry is at the lowest possible point and in huge problems? Steels are being closed around the world for this very reason, not because the industry itself is unnecessary, but when there is a recession in the Eurozone, when there is no construction, construction is the first to suffer. It's perfectly clear and then certainly that the ironworks have the biggest problem. Will that last forever, one decade, two decades? Well, if that's what we're thinking, then we should close everything down. We're not thrilled to be running Iron as a state. It's not the job of the state, and I can agree with you there, but there's a strategic partner gone, alone, no one sent him away because he had losses. We now have a situation or we can accept part of these losses to the state and wait for the cycle to recover, then find a strategic partner. As far as technology's concerned, she's in excellent technological condition. "US Steel" did invest there, and that's true. It's not a problem of technological ability. It's not even a big-boiled sale. It would be a problem to sell two high furnaces. That's why we haven't even worked out in a while. With 80,000 tonnes of monthly production it is all sold on both domestic and foreign markets. This will already appear in industrial production and GDP indices in May and June of the month, as well as in exports. We don't think this is a solution that's permanent. We're thinking about it and we're working actively to find our partners. I wouldn't mind if you found me a partner for the Iron Man if you could. It's now the biggest challenge. What's a matter of responsibility is an individual matter. It can't be generalized. So US Steel was a good partner for Jelizara, and was there a violation of the law by some individuals, it's a matter of court and a matter of fact. I'm not getting into that. What I'm also trying to say is that you're absolutely right when you're looking for a restructuring of public enterprises and you're absolutely right when you say that you need to end the process of restructuring so-called. former state-owned firms. We'll do it, but then you have to be consistent and share the responsibility at least partially, although it's disproportionate, I admit it, so to speak -- it's not that simple to do it. If you say in finance you can't do it alone, it's true, but here you are, for example. Your staff has left a huge debt in Belgrade Road, and here you warn the builders, 500 million dinars. I'm not saying you're personally responsible, but I'm telling you that the problem is much more complex than it looks. There's a hole and a problem in all the pores, and there's not one man like you or me or anyone else who can handle it. I agree absolutely that this is a question for society as a whole. But what does that mean? So that means that when we close down some company that's making losses, we pay severance fees to the workers, then I don't want crocodile tears to be poured over it, because the question is how much damage it's making, and how much use it is that some productive jobs can be opened. If you support me in that, it'll be easier for me. If you don't support me, I'll do it anyway, because it's good for Serbia. What is also important, no one will underestimate the difficult employment situation. We don't have the highest unemployment rate in Europe, but it's extremely high. Spain and Greece have a higher unemployment rate than Serbia, but it is not our honor, because ours is not much lower than theirs. What do I mean? You don't have to exaggerate when you talk about negative things, because they're bad enough not to have to and to exaggerate. That's what happens when you talk about public debt. There will be no public debt crisis as long as Serbia regularly pays off its obligations, whoever talks. But is there any danger of that happening if we don't take measures to reduce the deficit? Yeah. That danger exists, but first that danger is neither near nor will it happen. The danger would have been if I had just said it - we're not going to do anything. We don't care about the fiscal council's warnings and the IMF. We said the opposite. The fiscal council has provided an expert and objective analysis. We're going to go out here before you, not just me, but the whole government. There will also be Prime Minister Dacic and Prime Minister Vukic and I and all ministers in the government. We have no reason to hide from anyone. As it is not easy for the Italians to come out of the worst possible situation in which their country is located, the French who are in recession, so it is not easy for us either. But we want to tell you honestly what we can do and to accept all the proposals and the professional public, such as the Fiscal Council and you from the opposition and the people of the ruling coalition to help. In that sense, I see as well-intentioned SDPS proposals. They don't tell me -- najipara, not to tax the minimum wage, but to figure out how to do it. These are constructive proposals, and not just words – this is what you need, and then where the money is from that there is no solution. Don't get me wrong. I think a lot of things you said are true. There's no reason to panic. That's the only thing I ask you to do, because first of all, we have the liquidity of the budget, we have the money to settle our obligations regularly, but we have to save, to cut costs. The expenditure must be reduced at all levels and financial disciplines to be introduced both in the Republic, both in the provinces and in the locale. There's a groundless question here if anyone will be damaged. We all have to cut our expenditures, but to make a situation that is sustainable on a long time and a situation where we will minimise the problems we cannot escape from. When someone asks when it can be better in Serbia, I won't say we can get better while the eurozone has a recession. He can't. It's impossible, there's no magic wand, because you can make political decisions in one day, you can solve a problem with political agreements, and this doesn't depend on the agreement. This depends on what we all do together, on the consensus in society, but also on the external circumstances. The economy isn't a thing that can change overnight. There is no current response from Europe to the crisis. If someone says they found the answer, they didn't find it. When they find him, I don't know. We, as a small country, have nothing left, but to adapt to such a negative situation, to adapt our budget to real spending opportunities, to see what is most necessary to give up that state, but to protect those who find it most difficult. They're poor, they're people who have pensions. We need to run a policy that's responsible and, of course, eliminate all the bad things in governance. You're right. State governance can be a hundred times better, but at all levels, not only in the Republic, but also in the province and in the locale. The fact is, we have management issues, especially when it comes to building permits. It's no accident that construction is in crisis. The fact is that this previous Law on Planning and Construction has only further complicated the otherwise large bureaucracy in the area, but the fact is that no one can amnestize our government unless this law changes and introduces a shortening of those deadlines. I'm really open to every well-intentioned criticism, for all the good suggestions, but just a request, don't overdo it, because otherwise the situation is quite difficult and there's no need to get engaged more than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16906	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica. I'm glad Mr. Dinkic, which you obviously take seriously, but I'll just tell you, apropo is making you panic. I'm not talking about the nightmares I have when I think about the economy, I'm talking about your coalition partner, Wolf. All I've told you is economic surgery. Maybe you don't like that picture. I'm not saying it's just your responsibility, and I find myself responsible here, because we haven't succeeded in making decisions and those who voted in such a way, so they've allowed you to make decisions in such a government, to make sure they support us to lead the country another way. That's what this is about. The fiscal council is not a political party. He's talking about your three laws. We're talking about the state of the country, and you know in advance that you don't have the support for key procedures in that law, your coalition partners. Who wrote the amendment on the return of the sheets you transferred to VAT? We, or your coalition partner? Who pulled the tax code tax on other immovableity, LDP or someone from your leading coalition? You asked me what to do with "Sartid"? I'll tell you in the open. First, the government shouldn't have let the US Steel leave the Sartid so easily. It took much more attention, and much less slander, intrigue, and scheming. When they left, much less political demagogy and pathetic, boasting and calling on the Russians, and much more ready to talk openly. I would ask for a solution here in Serbia, I would call "Metal Fair" and offer that they manage the factory, and that the state would cover the difference that exists at the moment between the price at which the goods are produced and the price at which they are sold on the market. I'd see where the internal markets are for something like that. The construction industry, I wouldn't close Luka Belgrade, but I would eventually clear it up, so I told Beck he couldn't even live in Serbia and give someone else the opportunity to work there. (President: Time. What do you want with the Delta? That's where 7,000 people work, 7,000 families. He doesn't owe anything to Miskovic. He's been arrested on one charge, and he's offering another. In prison, he symbolizes Serbia in which everyone will be arrested unless they like those in power. You know that very well. I don't think he's the motto of Serbia's development. He's 70 years old. I'm not going to ask you, I can't ask you for a partner for Sartid, you know what I'm going to find a partner for, and he'll be successful in that job. "Belgrade Road" is not in the dubious because our personnel were doing bad work. With a double budget, they had a bigger job realisation than someone who had been there before. No one's talking about crime in "Belgrade Road." "Belgrade Road" is due to the fact that the one who was supposed to pay, he didn't pay for his jobs, and that's the city. Like the entire road economy. Djuraskovic failed because he remained in debt of 300 million. The clowns ordered jobs (President: Mr Jovanovic, time. That's what this is about. We do politics. Your government has completed its mission with the Brussels deal. Each second, its authorities will be too expensive for Serbia. Recommend it as you have the entire country transmuted. Find the capable and smart, so let's do something together. Don't expect me to bow before Mrkonjic, Ilic, in front of all those failed managers in public enterprises who import electricity of 50 euros and export the same profession for 30 euros, because they can't put it in the market. That's where you cut and that's where you're looking for solutions. Don't come to people to tax their yard or take off their apartment depreciation, so that someone in a spent apartment here in the city center pays 800 times the tax. It's a possibility, I'm not saying it's going to be like that and there's no panic. Mr. Jovanovic, four minutes, I've allowed you to answer longer. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16908	Mr. Minister, I'm glad you agree with Mr. Jovanovic that management is a problem and that leadership is important, but I'm not sure that you're going to build leadership by, say, this kind of procedure, that you're trying to turn this debate on that path, to convince the voice-telling what I said after Mr. Jovanovic's presentation to the press. Did they tell you what the press asked me? I talked more about how much more tax on the apartment would be paid by them or their parents than whether there would be a salary or a pension. Since I assume that either one of the reporters or your spokesman gave you what I was saying incompletely, did he tell you what he said? He said, "It's easy for you, you have arguments, and you're right, what am I supposed to do?" If we're already convincing the talks from the Hall of Parliament, then let's go all the way. You remind me a lot of Mirko Cvetkovic. He's been here three months saying there won't be bankruptcy because he's provided enough liquid assets. Then you came, and you claimed for six months that you couldn't get rid of the debts made by Mirko Cvetkovic. In the meantime, you've made new debts and you have liquid assets. When everything's okay, why all this, Mr. Dinkich? If it will be for salaries and pensions, why is Krkobibić yelling – genocide over pensioners, genocide over pensioners? You have a much bigger problem, Mr Dinkic, to clarify what is public, semi-secret or secret against you on the front pages of your coalition partners and leaders of the ruling coalition, rather than what I speak publicly to journalists in the Serbian Parliament. Okay, it'll be for wages and pensions, and who won't it be for? If it won't be for pointless subsidies, I'm looking forward to it, but you'll know it too well, as you well knew there was nothing from that Law on Public Enterprises, which you adopted here and from the amendments of ours that you accepted. Meanwhile, the same ruins continue in public enterprises. When you're chasing small entrepreneurs, you're also chasing big entrepreneurs who have government money, or taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16909	Mr. Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask all my fellow Members of Parliament to refrain from at least fearing the public and the citizens, as well as those who want to deal with the economy fairly. I was particularly distracted by the statement that everyone will be arrested in this Serbia if the government solves it, that is, the political summit. I think that we are done with that time when this government has formed, because today those who decide whether someone will be held in custody, whether someone will be charged, are not judges or prosecutors elected by this assembly majority, but the previous one. So you can address those who voted for these judges and prosecutors, not us. Furthermore, whether Mr. Miskovic is innocent or not, I would not like to bid on it, because it will be settled by a court that is the only one responsible. And the fact that he's a bad guy, he's big, and we all know that. We all know that in these large systems, such as the Delta company, which has built large shopping centres around Serbia, the largest one here in Belgrade, that a place is being charged in a shelf, that because of certain benefits they sought slowly but certainly destroyed the small enterprise wherever they were found. It's not just the ingenuity of entrepreneurs, it's the monopoly position on the market, which shut down those small entrepreneurs who were the most filling the register of the Republic of Serbia. It was also an embarrassing statement from the same Mr. Miskovic in 2008, that he would take his workers to the streets if the state allowed him not to pay the tax. When he destroyed small entrepreneurs, he began to sell more expensive than those entrepreneurs sold their goods and services, and when it was little, he began to make his empire by using it in a unfair way because of the lack of competition between those who had made something in Serbia, so they had to be in debt to the banks and to be hostages to bank loans and exchange rates of dinars. So much for how these big, capable and honest businessmen worked and made a fortune in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16911	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16912	Don't talk to me about monopolies, Mr. Arsic. It is known when parliament discussed it and how it voted. I have no reason to deal with Miroslav Miskovic. He's a symbol for me and a phenomenon in society. Believe me, I've had enough years and a lot more experience than that would be normal for my age. I absolutely know the character of a society where decisions are not made in institutions are not based on law, but are the will of individuals, which is then implemented through institutions. If you didn't have those weekend raids that were previously announced in the tabloids, if you had passed any law, then I would really say yes, yes, this is a fight against what is bad in our society and I would support you in that, but it isn't, Mr. Arsic. I'm here in front of you and because I've always taken care of that border. Unfortunately, you have your own policy, not personally, but your ruling coalition has crossed that line and you have become personal and subordinated society to your political interests. That's what's wrong. But there's something else you need to understand. When your government was formed here, with criticisms that we have said, which time confirmed, I said I have a respect for every man who went before the Assembly and asked for support to lead Serbia in a difficult time. When you made the hard decisions, very difficult because of the mistakes that you've just made with your policy in the past, we haven't stuck our finger in the eye. You said it - it had to be done. (President: Time. Now I'm telling you-- think ahead. There's no more room for later brains.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16913	MP Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16914	I have to agree to something, to subdue our political interest to the society in which we live, and our political interest is to create a society that will be just and normal. Is that what we have problems with? Of course we do. The institutions of the state were destroyed, and everyone knows it well. What do you think it's like when a prosecutor or a judge calls the Justice Minister to ask him what they need to do? They did not get that habit when this government was elected, but they gained that habit from earlier governments. Now the minister tells them - you're doing it by the law, I don't care. That's why you're chosen by that assembly and by those citizens. When it comes to economic goals, how do you think we can achieve them if we cannot allow competition to develop normally in Serbia? How do you expect us to attract foreign investors or domestics if someone keeps asking them for about 10%? How did these local self-governments, which are now complaining about revenues in local self-government budgets, not even create conditions for an investor to come to them in the previous period? It is not so easy to change the economic situation in Serbia. It takes a lot of cuts, a lot of laws, and we have another problem. What about the pensioners? What about education? What about the police? What about the state authorities? We need to secure income from someone in a vulnerable and difficult system like this, very difficult. That's why laws are passed. It's hard to predict everything. I don't want to break the Rules of Procedure during the time. Either way, we'll have a chance in the second part of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16915	I think we've replicated enough on this subject. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, from the post: These are not the rules. I gave you four minutes to answer to Mr Dinkic, two minutes... (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, from the post: He misquoted me entirely. ) On the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the application of the rights referred to in points 1 and 2 of this article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly and shall have the right to assess the need to close the circle of replicas, because otherwise... Mr. Arsic didn't mention anyone by name. He didn't quote anyone. Mr. Arsic has the right as head of the parliamentary group because Mr. Vukic, who is president of the SNS, has been mentioned twice. National MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16916	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SPS Parliamentary Club, in terms of the economic crisis, certainly considers a good response to government public finances in a way that plans and thinks on the medium and certainly that good solutions and reaching strategic goals are not possible in the short term. Priority issues are defined. First of all, putting under public debt control through cutting public budget deficits and the ultimate goal is the strategic possibility of balancing the 2016 budget. Of course, this approach to public finances, the way of thinking is something new in recent history when it comes to public finances, but it is not sustainable without one common political interest of coalition partners who are currently visible and of course general support in the society that the minister himself mentioned, because public finances and such significant goals require a certain time. In this respect, we can take the proposal from the RES as a continuation of reforms in order to achieve these strategic objectives. In addition, the assessment of these laws gave the Fiscal Council in a way that indirectly confirms these views, and a good part of the changes in these tax laws also personally recognises that Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's announcement in his exposé will reduce bureaucratic procedures and speed up the work of the administration. This time the subject is the Tax Administration and that a fairer tax system will be established, and therefore, by respecting these facts, I would like to start by saying that the SPS Parliament Club will in principle support a set of amendments to tax laws that are on the agenda. It's hard to talk admirably about taxes. I have made sure of it many times, working alone and dealing with tax problems and speaking in the National Assembly. It has long been known that only two things have been said in life – death and taxes and many thinkers and analysts have tried to explain the reasons for taxation, and taxes remain unpopular and have one significant characteristic that they do not essentially give direct connection to the citizens of payments and benefits they receive for these payments and often citizens, so we all experience taxes exclusively as a cost, as something – as money thrown down the river, which is certainly not true and no state can exist without taxes. This is one finding which speaks well enough about the reason why our citizens are highly hypersensitive to the existence of a gray economy in the RS, whose consequences are visible in the areas of tax evasion, market distortions and unfair competition. For this reason, we Socialists believe that effective fiscal policy should curb all forms of the grey economy especially and especially the work on an illegal market because the black-based worker is deprived of all possible rights, social rights, is exposed to frequent inhumane working conditions and the constant threat of job loss. Through this prism, primarily the grey economy in Serbia, which I personally and MP club SPS has repeatedly spoken and expressed my views, and based on the available data on the size of the gray economy and the causes and possible measures to curb it in Serbia, I will try to analyse the individual proposed measures of amending and supplementing a set of tax laws. There are several reasons for the gray economy in Serbia. They are institutionally economical in the area of financial areas where a large number of hard-to-control cash payments appear, in the domain of labour market institutions, but from the point of view of today's debate, I appreciate that commentation and discussion are the most important fiscal causes, and above all is one of the main causes of the gray economy relatively high fiscal burdens of work. In this respect, the proposed measure to reduce the tax rate from 12% to 10% and to increase the non-taxable salary amount from 8.776 to 11,000 dinar, thus reducing the tax burden of the lowest earnings from 8.6 to 6.4%, I certainly appreciate that it is in the spirit of reducing incentives and the possible benefits of the employer to be included in the field of the grey economy, i.e. to affect the reduction of the number of workers who will work on black and gray when only one part of the obligation is paid. Otherwise, I want to say at the minimum wage level, the current tax burden in Serbia is the fourth highest among all countries, which is an incentive for informal employment and therefore it is important to reduce labour costs for not paid work and this practice is currently present in most major European countries. I would like to say that it may be possible to think in the future that the minimum profit may be slightly differentiated so that it reflects the different regional costs of living in Serbia, which would be another additional incentive to reduce work to black. I'd like to do a little depression as an introduction to details, and we've submitted an amendment to Article 11 concerning Article 15a. Considering that the profits made through student cooperatives and youth should also be included in the system that 11,000 dinars represent an untaxable amount because such work represents the possibility that a certain number of young people will primarily come to profit, to survive literally in these difficult moments, and of course unemployment is one of the largest, and possibly the biggest problem, and certainly, in this way and this way, it would also reduce the work on black, or all the burden of such a proposal would be poured over to the profits of young people working through student and youth cooperatives, and certainly not in the state, and it would certainly be one trigger for working on the black part of the population. Of course, in this place the comment deserves local self-government and there is no need to ignore the fact that one number of local self-government remains without significant income and should have a very selective approach when it comes to local self-government in a way that solves one problem in one place, and on the other hand, it is certainly necessary to respect the position of the Fiscal Council when it comes to this topic. One of the other fiscal patterns of the appearance of the gray economy is complicated and expensive tax procedures. The proposed set of laws gives us the possibility and the measure to prescribe individual tax returns and to unify taxes by one order, as we have already seen and heard. So, a large number of payment bills, a large number of applications, that all cost money and time. It certainly made it difficult for the tax administration to control itself, and it is already, in itself, a great deal of progress beyond this financial announcement of 1.5 billion dinars. Here, estimating that the data speaks and that salaries are paid, and not contributions, in accordance with the law, and that in January there were about 6,000 such cases, I believe this is the introduction of so-called. the notification of contributions under official duty, where the employer does not account and does not pay a contribution to compulsory social security for the previous month, the competent tax administration will account for and will certainly act in an additional way on all taxpayers, that they do not have the motive to enter the gray zone and to avoid paying the contributions. We, and now, among the 500 biggest debtors, have in that sense every ninth that is very active. A legitimate question arises – why can this amount of 12 billion dinars in active taxpayers not be charged at this time. One of the fiscal causes of the gray economy is also a high degree of tolerance towards the gray economy. That's what we were talking about here. As I said in the introduction, the SPS is absolutely for strictly sanctioning and avoiding tax payments and minimising tolerance towards the gray economy and therefore we want to support that, through cross-evaluation of the tax base of natural persons, the tax system makes it fairer. I certainly want to tell the great majority of the MPs here, but also to the citizens, with the naked eye there are certain cases, enormous disproportionateness between property and reported income and income. Simply, the Tax Administration should also act in this sense and the estimated 3% of undeclared property in large taxpayers, i.e. rich people, is a good measure, should be consistently applied here, in some ways, it may not be as important and this financial effect, as the messages to citizens, to all those who look at the Republic of Serbia, so the state will thus give a clear signal that it is ready and determined to tackle the gray economy and tax evasion. I would agree here with individual discussions, that in that sense the government's work, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, has sent a message, that the thief in Serbia is not worth it. One of the possible fiscal factors for the gray economy is also undertrained and equipped tax administration. It is very important to increase the likelihood of tax evasion and certainty that it will be discovered. There is certainly a great responsibility of the Tax Administration and this depends on its equipment, its organisation, on the motivation of the taxpayers in the Tax Administration, on the methodology of work, or on the selection of the subject of control. Here I want to say a few suggestions, we used debates when public finances were on the agenda, to show the desire to manage the IRS to encourage its work, and we really think that this time some 10% of the IRS is working on direct control. We think that this is not enough and that a significant number of workers should be hired and it should be respected that these jobs require specific knowledge from finance, economics and rights and certain skills. In the IRS, there was once a certain training of personnel who were ready for these kinds of jobs. Perhaps you should consider, in collaboration with the restoring ministry, that an educational profile is set up at certain schools or universities, which would prepare or specialize in staffing in tax administrations. It also requires a motive that is expressed through adequate earnings for people who work directly on the affairs of control. Here, in this way, we would pay for the expertise, unlike some of the institutions that we valued, exclusively reward their independence. I'm not saying that that's not necessary. However, expertise should be adequately rewarded, because people who do their job well are professional, will always choose a job that is more valuable and on that side of this salary that exists in the Tax Administration are certainly not attractive enough, but they are no motive for people to do their job in one good way. In this place, I mean, we've pointed that out more than once, not as some kind of criticism. We have a certain disproportionate pay and we appreciate that the moment has come for our government to seriously consider, that, like certain countries in our region, it clearly defines what state functions are, what public functions are, what other functions are, and that in the scope of the projected funds at this point, it defines clear parameters and relations between the officials, functions and jobs that are done and we will get, in that sense, and a more even distribution of profits. Finally, when it comes to the methodology of selecting taxpayers, just as a single note, I had the opportunity to listen to one presentation and about a study carried out on the size of the gray economy in Serbia. It has shown that the profile of those entering the gray economy zone moves within the frameworks, that they are entrepreneurs, young firms, business entities in construction and based in central Serbia, bonds that are more prone to entering the grey economy than other taxpayers. For the sake of all of this, at this point I want to say that, certainly, in order to achieve these declared objectives, I need to understand the serious recommendation of the Fiscal Council on the current possibilities for the exclusive submission of electronic applications by 1 July 2014, respecting this argument that I have made in terms of potential, particularly the work of the Tax Administration, although I think it will respond to this task rather than the taxpayers who will have to act in this way. I believe that the proposed tax measures that I have cited can contribute to curbing the grey economy in Serbia, which is very important, especially when it comes to fiscal causes, because it is, according to some studies, the largest in the region, and compared to highly developed countries, almost double the amount of around 30.1% of GDP. Certainly, it is time that, in this way, and I appreciate these measures that I have put forward, a decisive action is taken to combat and bring into some real and normal frameworks of traffic in the gray economy. Of course, because of the essence that I've put forward in my previous presentation and what I've been up to now, I need to support these bill proposals, but there are also another set of proposed measures worth mentioning, which should be supported. We, the Socialists, believe that in addition to stimulating work in Serbia, entrepreneurship needs to be stimulated and we believe that good measures to raise rates for the pausals from three to six million dinars, which is a relief for a large number of taxpayers who will thus get the opportunity to be cobwebs. Of course, this choice of entrepreneurs, which allows them to contribute to pay for their own profits or profits, also achieves these savings up to 1/3, as we have heard, are an additional incentive to entrepreneurship. For the purpose of the justice of the system, they can certainly count the measure of a balanced and fair solution, when it comes to the establishment of a tax base for the property of a legal person. Therefore, this is no longer an accounting value, but a fair value of assets that can be achieved on the market. This is certainly the measure that will allow the tax administration, which is always aimed at determining the practical situation on the ground, and thus will certainly ensure a certain level of justice. I would also like to mention the increase in the rate of recognition of expenditure in the tax balance from 3.5% to 5% and the apostrophe of certain areas in our society that can be accelerated in this way - environmental protection, health, education, science, humanitarian, sports and social. This definition of practically giving up one part of the revenue is probably easier at this point than going directly to subsidy measures, or money that is currently not in this area. The fiscal council has expressed a certain limit on these measures, but has not cited what the significant lack of budget revenue is based on this measure. I don't think it's big right now, and it can certainly give certain results in the future, to be very attractive to all taxpayers. The introduction of tax exemption for water and water facilities is certainly something where agriculture needs, as an attractive branch, support. Of course, there is no need to ignore additional incomes for pensions that must be secured, because these are earned categories and it must be sustainable in the coming period. Since I'm running out of time, because of everything I've said and because I appreciate that using a consistent application will provide a fairer system and needing a commitment to the resources in the coming period, I want to say once again that, with increased control of the tax administration, there will certainly be even better results. In this regard, the SPS parliamentary club will support all amendments and additions to the laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16917	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16918	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, Mr Dinkic, I like your idea of speaking openly. You and I have always spoken openly, and when we've agreed and we disagreed, directly, openly, manly, and I think we should talk like that today. I think we should talk openly about all the topics. Here, above all, we need to talk openly about the problems that await us, and we have serious reform problems, budget expenditure reforms and budget expenditure cuts. I think we should talk openly about it here, because those who make up most of this assembly have no agreement on these expenditures. Since 2008, there have been those who would be spending unfavorable funds in Serbia, budgets, from those who would like to break up and start with a new budget policy, a new economic policy. I think it is too important to see within the ruling coalition whether there is agreement on real tax reforms, budgetary, economic and social. I don't think there's any agreement. When I say that there is no agreement, I don't mean whether lawyers, dentists and private doctors are going to be taxed on a flat-rate basis, because it's a trivial thing compared to whether there will be a break-up with unnecessary spending of funds, money distributed in certain ministries of over six billion dinars per year, or it will draw a line and say – from today we go differently and we go one way forward to provide Serbia with a reasonable budget deficit, growth in production and expenditure that will allow Serbia to have funds to invest in capital investments that can raise industrial production. It is an open debate that we expect from you and that we need your partners here in the Assembly, so that you do not defend tax reform yourself, but that there is at least one of the ministers from other ruling parties who can adequately answer the questions that we have here. We have tax reform in the middle of the financial year and budget cuts by changing these tax laws in the middle of the financial year, which will certainly not contribute to the completion of the projects and plans that have been adopted and are under way. We want to speak openly here, but we have an open debate and a whole, and that we have a whole, not just a republican budget, but that we have in mind and budgets of local self-government and that we have citizens in mind and how citizens live. Is the only source of covering the budget deficit sticking your hand in the citizens' pocket? That's the subject that we have to talk about here today. We have heard from you that the budget is full, that we have the funds, which means that the deficit does not exist or are the funds that have already been allocated and that are insufficient to cover all the needs Serbia has at the moment. We don't think Serbia has enough resources. That's what the Fiscal Council says, that's what you told us, and that's what the IMF tells us, anyway. To remind you, the DSS had nothing to do with the IMF talks in the last term, nor in this mandate, because we believe that the IMF can contribute to the limitation of some of the expenditures that are harmful to the state. We heard, too, that the image of the income was dreary and that no revenue from the planned was realized 100%. The best realised income from VAT, as you said, is 92%, and everyone else is less realised. A new excise on biofuel is being introduced, which is fine, in order to fill the excise deficit, in order to reach at least some rate that can allow for better budget filling. What burned my ears, it is that you, in the way that Milosevic leveled Belgrade University with a farming cooperative, have leveled the law offices with trades. It's just that it's not normal and it's not real. We think that law offices, whatever people think about lawyers, we know that they don't think very well, but simply lawyers aren't the same thing as traffickers, or law offices aren't the same thing as trades, and we can't even them out. I guess it's a lapus, and that's why I won't hold on to it much longer. In the course of the debate, we need to start with the budget. We had an understanding of the government's economic measures during last year's budget rebalance and budget for this year. Through our discussions when it came to the Law on Banks, the Agrobank, the Development Bank, the fight against corruption, you came across our support, and we had an understanding of the measures that were being taken at the time. We had a single income reserve -- will they come true? We were right that incomes may have been misplanned or that expenditure was high and that you wanted to reduce the projected budget deficit by not being able to cut expenditures by raising revenue. The expenditures are huge. The revenue realised cannot cover unreal expenditures, and then with unrealistic revenues we try to reduce unreal expenditures. It was known at the end of last year, when the budget for this year was adopted, that the deficit would be higher than the projected 3.5%. We would all be satisfied that the deficit is 3.5%, because this would mean that Serbia has come out of recession, that the budget is better charged and that we can expect the deficit to be even smaller next year and that through some reforms, which we will continue to undertake, this restriction will continue, with the reduction of deficits and the repair of Serbia's economic picture. Public debt participation in GDP is 56.1%. In the Fiscal Council, we hear he's about 60% now, which is way above the legal limit. Compared to Serbia's external debt, it increased 4.2 billion euros by this year compared to April. We've been listening to excuses that we're doing a much better job, which is true, but those funds have gone into budget spending. Few of these funds ended up in speeding up industrial production, in lending, and probably one part ended up in Sartide, but few ended up in that area that could contribute to GDP growth and industrial production growth. During last year, we owed 149 euros per second. It is important to say that in April alone, we paid 16 billion dinars on interest, which is more than the total debt paid for the interest in 2007. So, as one debtor, we come into a situation that we won't even be able to service interest compared to the main debt. It's one of the problems Serbia has. So when we talk about expenditures, you have to do everything possible to teach the line, that these expenditures are reduced and that we are having a debate here, above all, on expenditures, and I expect that we have the story of expenditure through budget rebalances, already next month, and that is one of the main things to be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For what is more important than to do and to see what are the expenditures of those who are excessive, what are expenditures in public enterprises that are unnecessary and what expenditures can be reduced. For 16 billion dollars we paid interest, so that citizens know what that amount is, what that means is 73 kilometers of the middle profile of the highway, 14,600 jobs per tariff that you pay the highest, that's 10,000 euros or 73 thousand high milk cows that would give to millions of gallons of milk that could be used. So we're in a position to pay a lot for the interest, because of the loans we've been taking, and because of the loans we're still in debt. We are in debt with 4.2 billion euros since April of last year, until April of this year. That's something we should be worried about anyway, because we cover expenses with new borrowings and we make these expenses even bigger. According to January data, around 31% of all employees in Serbia are working in the public sector. This figure grows and grows, given that on average 10,000 jobs are lost every month. So that number is now even bigger than it was in January. In the EU, between 10% and 18% of people work in the public sector, it is 31% with a growth trend. Party employment continued, the number of employees if compared to the number of employees since July last year when this government was elected, here with May this year, you will see that it rose in the public sector at least between 5% and 10%. It's all about the burden of taxpayers, and you're talking about us saving. The International Monetary Fund is talking about us having to make savings, first of all, in the public sector. You remember that in 2006 and 2007, in agreement with the World Bank, we reduced almost 10% of the government's staff, and that was good at the time, and it proved to be a saving point only in 2007, but it was one measure that produced the result. After that, the government that came after that, i.e. On the way to work, the ministries are loaded and loaded, so it's continued now. I think that's one bad way to do it. Inflation crosses our drawn rate, we're recordmakers by the number of unemployment, and that's the data that talk about economic policy in Serbia. Inflation if taken in April of the month, last year and this year is 11.4%. You're saying that we got out of recession and that our GDP growth and industrial production is 1.9% in the first quarter, we're waiting to see the second quarter. The first quarter, as experts say, and you said that, if there is a reserve, is because last year they were big winters and backdrops and industry didn't work. We will see the second quarter of whether there will be an increase in industrial production, as you said in the first quarter and as you boasted that Serbia had come out of recession. Average earnings, March 2012 and March 2013, earnings are nominally higher by 2.8% and are realistically smaller by 7.6%. Citizens are poor, and the state does nothing to stop it and stop it. The state still has unreasonable and irrational expenditures. It's this country's problem, the expenditures. Not the problem of this country's income, this country's problem is expenditure. January and March 2012 and 2013, I'm talking about this year and your government's year, profit is nominally higher by six, and it's actually smaller by 5.4%. That's the data all of us care about here. That's the data we need to discuss. We have to talk here about spending, about spending money, and you keep making us talk about how to get another dollar into the budget. It's a great topic of how to stop a dinar from going out of the budget without you measuring it three times and not looking at it. That's the topic we need to talk about. Is it more important for a municipality to pay for a folk diva concert or is it more important to give that money to those who need it most? That's the topic we need to talk about here. The budget deficit is 76 billion, projected at 121 billion for this year. The IMF estimates that it will be 3.8%, according to the Fiscal Council estimates it will be 5.5%, and in any case it will be far greater than what you planned. We say again, the problem is expenditure, the problem is spending, not income. You can't squeeze any more out of dry drab, you can't squeeze on chickens, stables, barns, barns and pigs, which will cover spending on various bahanalia, concerts and other things, it can't be done. We need to turn around and cut costs. That's the basic subject we're going to talk about today, about spending cuts. Is there a need to get people into various public enterprises and state administrations? We've had one agency number shut down and the other, but new offices are opening up, new agencies. What about the employees of those agencies? Did the employees from those agencies get fired? No, they're redeployed to the ministries. We're talking here, we need to see if the number of government employees has dropped? No, he's grown since July last year and he's still growing as we talk here, he's certainly still growing. Serbia certainly depends on foreign investment, and the income for Serbia is irreplaceable. According to the SIEPE director, he tells me this year we should expect, or two billion foreign ones were planned, all with those investments that were already to be realised, these are Emirates, that's all. So this year, foreign investment has nothing to do with it. Or they'll be on a spoon almost negligible. Why is that? Here is what the German business association says among its members – the impressions of Serbia as a country suitable for investing in addition to criticism addressed to public administration, bureaucracy, corruption, which it is dealing with, but apparently insufficiently, is mentioned the new Company Act, which represents hyperproduction, increasing the scope of excessive work. The same goes for the Labour Act, in which there are many examples of out-of-date recipes along with the official hourly 40-hour working week, which includes a break during work, so it is practically 37 hours. Serbia needs to work. It is not necessary to tax gardens, stables and hens, Serbia should work. That money should be pushed into production instead of expenditure. "Sartid" might be one way. We don't know how successful an experiment will be, but certainly Serbia has to work and that's what we expect. The public's high expectations for getting a date are heating up. The same story was – only to win the candidacy will the funds be opened for us these and them. That's what we say – now that we get a date moving well-being. You know, the date doesn't pour into the tractor and the date doesn't throw into the field. Serbia needs a job, not a date, and to see if Serbia will work after that date or if some other measures are needed to make Serbia work. This law and this set of laws aim to reduce the deficit. We see what you've done, you've taken a local self-government part of the income, you've transferred that income to the budget, and you've left local self-government to tax chickens, stables, barns and gardens, which has never been. It's something we at the DSS can't agree on. You've denied the local self-government a serious amount of funds. Belgrade will remain short of more than six billion, Panchevo for about 400 million dinars. These are all funds for capital investments of local, municipal infrastructure. We advocate a balanced development of local self-government, and then we deny local self-government a secure and stable income that is invested in capital municipal infrastructure that needs to attract investments to make the difference between local self-government equal. We now deny that income that is safe and stable and put them on an uncertain income through which they need to rob citizens of property tax so they can invest something of it. I think the bill's bad and it's just gonna show up on the ground that it's bad. We advocate the development of local self-government, and in fact it takes away one of the basic funds of local self-government, one of the stable sources of income. I don't think that's a good thing, and you have to think all the way about how to reduce yourself, increase income without getting in the pocket of local self-government. They also collect services in a way that is intended to introduce lawyers, doctors, dentists, to enter the VAT system, to abolish their flat-rate taxation. Lawyer services are expensive. The dental services are expensive. Medically expensive. It'll be even more expensive once they're introduced into the VAT system. Lawyer fees are big. I understand citizens who are rebelling, but it will be even more expensive if they enter the VAT system. And it's simply not a crucial thing for the success of these reforms whether lawyers are going to be introduced or not. Serbs will have even more bad teeth, and will take even more justice into their hands if the VAT system is introduced for lawyers and others. So just think about it. There's a tax on property, on the yard, on everything that hasn't been taxed so far, and taxes will be multiple higher than they are now for building land. There has never been in Serbia, or at least in some recent history of Serbia's tax on the ground below 10 acres, chickens, barns, stables and the rest. It's the first time we've introduced it, and I think it's a bad measure, which will further damage poor citizens like this. And, after this law, the only land that won't be taxed is the one in the pots and the smaller ones, because the larger ones might be found in some next impact reform, a kidney stone, and the sand in the bile. It's the only thing that won't be taxed. And just leave room for the citizens to breathe. And we, as DSS, suggest you withdraw this bill, come with a rebalancing proposal to this assembly, where we open, directly discuss expenditures, where you will have our support to reduce expenditure and to go through real and tax and system reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16919	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go. Excuse me, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. National MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16920	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for a member of the 87th National Assembly, who says it's 10-18 and we have one hour's break. It's usually a 14 o'clock break. And I'm not saying that because we need some rest, but because we would like to have representatives of the ruling parties during this debate, primarily the SNS, which is now in the hall of one, two, three, four. We want them to be convinced that they do not vote for such bad laws, which are just as it was said, which will tax citizens, introduce new commitments, we want to convince them not to vote for those laws. We asked for their retreat. I'm asking you to take a break so that they can enter the O.R., on the one hand, that you may not serve yourselves with tricks, but someone who organizes work in this assembly, that an authorised representative of the DS speaks at a time when ratings is small and when citizens won't be able to hear everything they can't hear in this, we could say, in media darkness, which a bit falls on Serbia to hear. So I'm asking you to set a break as usual, as it's always been done, from 14 to 15 hours, and I don't know why you're extending your work now, especially since the representatives of the ruling parties are now out of the O.R. I don't know who to discuss with. It is not our goal to just tell Mladjan Dinkic, the minister, what we think about this law, but also to tell the representatives of the ruling parties, that is, as they say by the headquarters parties and smaller partners, so please set a break so as not to report to the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT: Please, I do not think that the Rules of Procedure, article 87, is a planned break, is mainly done in a 10-18-hour principle, and a break of one hour is foreseen, but it is not a precise time. I've listened very carefully to you, in practice so far, there's been a break, and since 14, of 15, since 16 o'clock, it's not strictly respected that principle, to say that it's always been since 14 o'clock. As for the presence of MPs, it is not a guarantee that after a break there will be a greater presence and I cannot guarantee you or anyone else. Therefore, it is your wish and I can understand that desire, but I do not have the power to ensure a greater presence of MPs, because it is their will when and how much they will attend. Therefore, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. You can, as far as that goes, vote in the voting day, let's get to the point. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16921	Article 27 defines that the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure, and Article 32 defines the responsibilities of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Just at the request of the president and deputy president of the DS parliamentary group, I did not want to point out today at the beginning of the session the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which existed. But now I have to point to the current breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's this about? Two days ago Mrs. Kovac chaired the presidency, and I pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and exactly, without giving me an answer whether or not the Rules of Procedure were injured, she took a break. If she'd told us to come in at 14 hours, I'd have been here neatly at 1400 hours, sat in the bench, waiting to get an answer. At exactly 14.35 p.m. we received a notice – we interrupt work and continue working on Friday 24 May at 10.00 p.m. I ask the question, why was the session interrupted then, without getting an answer, and now that the MPs are asking the same thing, to normally go through the session, is a different way? I think the relationship between the chairman and all MPs and the way they lead should be the same. I didn't want to point out and ask if Mrs. Kovac had carried out her duties, if she had explained it to Mr. President of the Assembly, etc. Let us look to all MPs to be the same, for I note, I have not yet received an answer regarding whether the injured art is. 151, 153 and 167 as regards the preparation of the session itself. Maybe I'll get an answer by the end of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16922	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand, there is no injured Rules of Procedure, but I will respect that. You will only allow the minister to respond to the discussion of the previous MP and then we will take an hour's break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16923	As we've been talking today, there's no need to banalize anything, but to be open. I appreciate you being open, 'cause you've got three things going on. First, the banalization is that they will be taxed chickens, barns, and stables, because that's not true. Read, please, the law, because Article 12 clearly states with the property tax that everything that is related to agricultural production is excluded, as well as chickens, barns and stables are tied to agricultural production, as far as I know, and it is not taxed. It is a building land, because all local self-governments without exception, have requested that due to the suspension of the application of land compensation, some compensation is introduced and their proposal goes to what we said in the property tax. If the mayors agree that they don't need this, give everyone the amendment, don't complain tomorrow that they don't have any income from the property tax, but it doesn't apply to agriculture, to chickens, to barns, to barns, to any garden that has to do with the village. What is also incorrect, I may not have explained well enough, but here I am going to try now, the budget currently has a 140 billion dinar liquid asset, mostly in foreign exchange accounts and 32 billion dinar dinars. This means that these funds are kept to cover the budget deficit in the coming months, not what has passed, because it has already been financed. So, the first four months, and now, to this day, everything that is financed, is financed from income, and the difference replaced by these reserves. This is the next month's reserve and it's not small, if you consider it now, here we are at the end of May, and we have another 140 billion dinars in reserve. What I was saying, that it doesn't mean that there's room for relaxation and that we need to waste that reserve on some expenses that aren't needed, because the deficit is going to be higher because of the lower incomes, and that's why we need to cut the deficit so that we don't have to worry about that reserve as long as possible. But that reserve is quite enough to finance both pensions and salaries in the coming months, but for the sake of caution, we must take the recommendation of the Fiscal Council and go to a deficit reduction. One part of that effort is all these laws, and if that's not the end, and if there's going to be more measures that we're going to make. Finally, third thing, about lawyers. This regulation does not oblige lawyers to enter the VAT system, so you said, unless they cheat and their revenues exceed eight million dinars. All in a country with incomes greater than eight million dinars must be required in the VAT system. It's an obligation. Lawyers whose incomes are below that, so those who have less to do, will not enter this law into the VAT system, but will not pay a flat-rate tax, but will have to keep books and pay 10% of the tax on the difference between incomes they make and expenditure. So if their expenditures are equal to their incomes, they would theoretically not pay any taxes, but they would have to record the truth. I don't see any reason why lawyers or dentists in private practice, doctors, marketing agencies, accountants and auditors would be against recording their business changes in books, because most of them can do it themselves. It's not a complicated operation, you've got income, you've got expenses, at the end of the reckoning, the tax is paid at 10%. They can also use what other entrepreneurs will use, to have a personal salary, and then pay the corresponding contributions, and they don't have to, they can still stay on taxation just to get, as it was now an opportunity. So it's certainly not fair that the same tax treatment, and that's what I was talking about, have on one side shoemen, carpenters, sages, and on the other hand lawyers, marketing agencies, private dentists. It's not fair. And if the congregation will decide otherwise, it's up to you, and it's mine to tell you that you're wrong to protect anyone. I know the lawyer lobby is strong, there's no dilemma. But why not just protect not just one category from others? There's no lobby carpenters, there's no lobby saji, but we just have to manage the truth and the principle of tax justice. If the assembly votes not to be exempt from the flat-rate taxation of lawyers and dentists, it will be a legitimate decision of this assembly and will be applied, but it will not be fair regardless.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16924	Replica, Dejan Mihaylov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16925	"It's not a neck, it's a neck," as the people would say. We don't charge lawyers like this -- like that -- but the point is that they should stay here in the system of flat tax. I'm not even part of a lawyer's lobby, I'm gonna be a part of every lobby that advocates a more favourable solution to that profession. If they are carpenters, it is necessary to find the most favourable solution for carpenters, moths, marbles, whoever you want, and that is what is the job of me as a MP in this assembly. As for the extra 140 billion, you've created the impression that it's a surplus, and here we're all talking about the deficit. Simply, make it clear that this is not an surplus, that Serbia still has a budget deficit, and that these are the funds that serve, whether they are in the budget reserve, which will serve to pay the commitments. It's good that Serbia has funds in the account that are used to pay the commitments that are coming, but certainly we'll be in the deficit, that's where we understand each other, and you and I think the same thing and we know what you're going to say, that's one thing. Thirdly, when we talk about agricultural facilities, we are talking about agricultural land that will also be taxed, as well as construction and that stands, here is Article 2 of the Law which is about this, which is said – land, building, agricultural, forest and other; residential, business and other buildings; apartments, business premises, garages and other underground buildings, or parts thereof. The time ahead will show, when applying the property tax law, who was right, whether to tax the garage, barn, barn, henhouse as a building facility on land or not. Agricultural land, of course, no one will tax the field, but the water we're talking about is the land that's tied to the house and the garden. You agree that he's not ten kilometers from the house in the middle of the barn and the henhouse, he's where the man lives, on his garden, and that's what we're talking about here. (President: Time, Mr. Michael. ) I think it is simply necessary to consider whether this is the best solution to make money, whether it is local, whether it is in the Republic budget and whether citizens need to survive all the reforms we put before them. In other words, the goal of the state is that citizens live better, not that bureaucratic apparatus, one part of the administration lives well, and everyone else works for them. Fifty per cent of Serbian employees are in the public sector. So, the 50% he does, the pensioners, the living administration, all of these. It's going to become unsustainable at some point. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Michael, time. I'm done. It is necessary to create a system that is sustainable and that is sustainable in the longer run, and that is why we have proposed that these laws be withdrawn, that we discuss expenditures and, after that, access to basic tax reform, if it is found necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16926	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, under Rule 27 and Rule 87 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. In accordance with Rule 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I set a regular break of one hour, and with the work we continue at 15 hours and 40 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. We are moving to the order of MPs according to their application. The first registered speaker is the MP Slavica Savic. Is he here? No, I don't. ) The next registered speaker is MP Miodrag Djidic. Is he here? No, I don't. ) The next registered speaker is MP Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16928	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration seek to make the tax procedure as effective as possible, while at the same time making maximum savings, both on the part of the tax administration as the state authority responsible for determining, charging and controlling taxes and other public incomes, and on the part of taxpayers. The proposed amendments specify the responsibilities of the Tax Administration and determine the position of local tax administrations, which apply this law in the process of determining, charging and controlling their original public revenues, by providing that they have the same position, powers and duties as the Tax Administration when it initiates and conducts procedures within its jurisdiction. The tax administration's obligation to apply opinions and instructions issued by the finance minister in its business is foreseen to create equality of application of tax rules. As a key newspaper, this law introduces a single tax application for taxes paid after deduction, which will be submitted by electronic means. It is predicted that the Tax Administration is testing within the period of 1 October a software system that will enable the bonds to submit the tax application in electronic form and which will simultaneously perform the mathematical and logical correctness of the submitted application. The application shall be deemed to have been submitted by the tax administration to the obligor for receipt with records, number and call for a number to be entered in the transfer order, which the obligor adds to his business bank for payment of public revenue obligations. In this way, the tax procedure is significantly accelerated, as business software allows the Tax Administration to automatically control the tax returns submitted. The debtor is given the possibility that there will be no error in paying the tax liability and the subsequent conduct of a special procedure for the refund of the wrongly paid tax. The obligations of local tax administrations to provide the Tax Administration with information of importance for the determination of the market value of immovableity in their area of competence for the establishment of a united register are prescribed. The obligation of the organisations responsible for the registration of companies, entrepreneurs and other legal entities shall also be laid down to give details of the registration of those entities to the Tax Administration within five days of the date of registration. The obligation of the national authority responsible for keeping a residence register is also prescribed, that data on residence and residence of citizens be supplied to the Tax Administration or given access to the database. What is foreseen as a newspaper is the obligation of the organisations responsible for the registration of companies, entrepreneurs and other legal entities to reject the request to delete those entities from the register unless they have attached the assurance of the Tax Administration of the taxed tax liabilities not exceeding five days old. We consider such a provision illogical because practice has shown that such restrictive provisions do not generally meet the purpose for which they are brought. Such a provision could, above all, lead to the founders of companies, who fall into so - called companies. capital companies do not initiate liquidation procedures, because they cannot be assured that they have met the necessary tax obligations and that there is at the same time a reason for the liquidation. In this way, we would get a lot of fictitious businesses and requests from the state based on public revenues that exist only on paper and are accumulated at the same time and cannot be charged. Not long ago, the Law on the conditional write-off of interest and the settlement of the tax debt, which sought to avoid and introduce transparency and real justification in the system of public finances. In this part, we intervened with the amendment which deletes the provisions mentioned, as well as provisions providing for criminal penalties for those actions. Provisions have also been proposed to amend the existing procedure and way of adopting tax acts. We consider that the proposal to consider tax acts to be made to the obligor and other participants over the course of 15 days from the day of handover of the same post office, specifically restricts the right of those persons to invest in the legal remedy, i.e. to appeal, and the responsibility for the adoption of the act is transferred from the tax officer, who is leading the procedure, to the workers of the mail. In fact, since this post office may not be delivered at all without the tax administration asking for any feedback at the same time, it would inevitably lead the taxpayer or other participant to miss the deadline for appeal. This would cause damage to taxpayers in cases where the complaint would be established. In this part, we have proposed an amendment that provides for the erasure of those provisions since we believe that the existing provisions of the law are an appropriate compromise between efforts to speed up the process from respect for the rights and interests of taxpayers. A series of provisions of the law lay down the legal technical harmonisation of the same with, meanwhile, the amendments to certain laws and current decisions of the Constitutional Court, specify the provisions governing the interest of the unpaid public income, regulates the right of the taxpayer to submit an amended tax application, at the most twice, to regulate so-called ‘tax’. information tax rights. It also amends the provisions governing the public sale procedure, taken things away in the mandatory tax collection process. Since experience shows that the public sales rules so far have been ineffective and have produced high costs, which have been charged from the value of that asset, the bonds themselves have suffered the most. Provisions governing the powers of the Tax Administration in respect of the confiscation of matters in the case of the control of an unauthorized person, in that sense, are now authorised by the Tax Administration to leave these matters to a controlled person for storage within a specified period, in order to avoid large transport and storage costs. It also expands the scope of excise goods that can be the subject of confiscation and confiscation. Finally, technical questions will also be referred to by the Tax Administration itself and provisions on salaries and remuneration of tax officials and deputies will be specified. In one word, the proposed law, the provisions, seeks to make the tax procedure as effective as possible to the extent that the existing conditions allow, and to make the provisions of the law more effective and more effective in their application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16929	Thank you. I ask the MPs to understand, because at the time after the break, not all the heads of the parliamentary groups were in the O.R., who hadn't spoken yet. Please give us the right and the representatives of the other political groups. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16930	I thank you, Chairman. The truth works, and other MPs weren't in the O.R. because the chairman started the session three minutes earlier. Now you can discuss, but the point is that we are here today, in this room where the Government of the Republic of Serbia has passed a set of tax laws that the DS will not support and that we demand the government to withdraw urgently from the procedure. The reasons are numerous. The reasons are both political and economic and existential and reasons for the standard of living of citizens and the survival of local self-government and a number of things that DS MPs will do in a very professional and effective way to present in their exhibitions after this presentation. So, after the first quarter of 2013 indicator was published, it became clear to all that Serbia was having an unsustainable economic accident, as there was a decline in industrial production in March compared to February. The number of unemployed rose by 30,000 in just the first two months. No new government investment has yet been realised. Traffic in the retail trade is lower by 18% in March and wages by 8% compared to the previous year. A hole in the budget, respected colleagues, today is 76 billion dinars and is twice as big as planned. Public debt has increased the new government by four billion, or even 26%, and expensive and irrational projects are unfortunately more than ever. The results should not be surprising, since the management of the economy and the fate of the citizens was left entirely by the SNS, the SPS and the URS to Mr Dinkic and his measures, which in the previous decade led to the mass shutting down of jobs, the closure of factories and the fall of the citizens' standard of living. At the beginning of his fifth consecutive term, the finance and business minister implemented a tax reform that he said would stimulate economic growth and increase budget revenues, which happened, unfortunately, on the contrary. The economy today, respected colleagues and citizens, is ahead of the collapse, and budget revenues at all levels are actually lower than in the previous year. Unfortunately for Serbian citizens and their perspective, the DS warned the government of all this during the 2012 budget rebalance and the 2013 budget debate. Of course you didn't listen to us, as I believe you won't listen to us today. The government today announces a new tax adventure that is also doomed because it is not based on economic principles, but on day-to-day political interests. How else do you interpret the message sent to investors when business conditions change every six months and up? First, VAT and profit tax were increased, and now the tax on the property of legal persons is increasing. By yesterday, a man who declared himself a decentralisation campaign, for the second time in only six months of one financial year, reduces the bill of guaranteed income by local self-government and directs them to an increase in the price of kindergarten, public transport and utility services. In October of last year, you took away 50m euros of original income from local citizens, gentlemen of the government. With this law, you will take away 200m euros from them, and another 50m euros next year. This means that citizens at an annual level, due to such a proposal and such laws, will have 300m euros less for their pre-school institutions, public transport, social assistance and local infrastructure. That's a fact. After a storm of negative reactions by local self-government, the finance minister and the entire SNS government, the SPS and the URS said it was irresponsible municipalities that are doing their job badly. In this regard, you did not say to the public that these irresponsible municipalities in Serbia for the first four months made a plus of 11 billion dinars, out of which municipalities and cities eight billion, and Vojvodina's three billion dinars, while you, gentlemen of government, made a loss of as many as 76 billion dinars. Now they need to be punished for hosting their finances in a host way, unlike the government that threw money at gondolas, ski-lifts, shipbuilding and so forth. Now you're going to fine them nicely, you're going to take away their money to cover a hole that can't be clogged. You have no vision, no politics, no way, no knowledge, no expertise. You've got a hand deep in the citizens' pocket. Listen to what the businessmen, gentlemen of power, are telling you, representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises that we have spoken to. I believe you've spoken to them, too, whom you remember only before the election. They say that after every measure of yours, it's only harder and harder for them and they're asking for the Secretary of Finance's shift. No wonder you singled out 100 million dinars to support small and medium-sized enterprises. Through a new release of the economy, as you call it, you will cut costs by record 80 dinars per month per worker. Is that your plan to get Serbia out of the crisis? Is that with this 50 dinar support per entrepreneur and 80 dinar savings per worker per month? It's your economic vision. It's your way of getting the economy and Serbia out of the crisis. There are no tax laws in this proposal, no redundancies in the economy. It's only about taking away the citizens' money to fill this hole. Public finances are in such a bad state that the state directly admits that there is no money to pay pensions and therefore, by an urgent procedure, adopts laws in which citizens are taken money for kindergarten, public transport and utility services in order to ensure payment of the laws of guaranteed pensions. This is something very easy that can happen these days. Otherwise, they've already started to pay late in education, as you know in other places, in health care. Why didn't the government just give up some of your irrational, not professional government projects? There would be no need to take money from local self-government. Some of the things you could have given up on, for example. The 40m-euro tourism development budget, an additional debt for the 130m-euro plant in Boro, a grant for a 20m-euro Fiat 500l, a 11m-euro shipbuilding subsidy, a famous 10m-euro gondola in Kopalnik, Petrochemija, 40m-euro gondola. You could've given it up, but you didn't want to. The situation in public finances is so bad that the IMF does not even want to start negotiations with the Serbian government until the record loss in the state register is resolved. A particular problem is a huge increase in the burden on citizens through the basics of property tax. We will discuss this in detail, but what is a fact, unfortunately, Serbia's citizens is that this government has introduced a tax on the garden, because it has lifted a 10-ar limit. This essentially introduces a new tax based on the age of the building and the quality of the building, which, as a miracle, is passed on to the local authorities by cynical and ironic comments, and before that, you have taken away any opportunity to reach the source of income at the local. It's just like when you steal five dinars from someone's pocket, and then you give him a crowbar and you say, "Take this crowbar now, go beat up your neighbor, and you can certainly get 10 dinars." It's your economic policy. It's because of the truth. Citizens need to know that this is your crowbar economy. You take money from a bar and you say -- here, go there, rob your neighbor, and you'll have more. Which mayor in Serbia is going to tax the garden? It's your subtle way of dealing with people who don't suit you politically, only it's in conflict with your regionalization and decentralisation policy. But who else remembers your promises? What is certain is unclear as long as the leading parties will tolerate this economic situation and the fiscal situation in Serbia. As far as we're concerned, you're going to let this man come before you, in front of us, on behalf of the entire government, and take hits and criticism completely justified? We were wondering until you unanimously adopted this set of tax laws. The citizens of Serbia, you know, both the SNS and the SPS and the URS are completely unique in this so far unrecorded attempt to take money away from Serbian citizens. There's no difference between them anymore. Otherwise, Minister Dinkic complained for years that it was not enough for him to only control the economic and regional development portfolio, employment, foreign trade, economic relations with abroad and that Serbia's economy could progress, he must also control all financial flows in the country. He did it, gentlemen, because of you. Well, congratulations, except now you SNS will come back from Sochi to answer to the citizens why they have 300m euros less at their level where they choose the people who lead them, among other things, and the people from your party. How are you gonna do that? You rule in over 100 municipalities in Serbia. What are you gonna tell them? It's Dragan Gilas' fault, DS? We've already learned that song. You won't be able to, as one journalist says, where everyone blows up at the same high, there's no music. That broken band of yours, we're gonna set it up. We'll explain to the citizens what you're doing in this country. Your fear ennobles me. Otherwise, we warned, we spoke, the fiscal council warned, but for nothing. None of that happened. We have warned of the fact that a party that has 2% of MPs manages all economic and financial flows. No one cared about that in power. All well-intentioned warnings have been thrown into the water. Gentlemen of the SNS and the SPS, you have the opportunity to replace the finance minister or, as your newspapers write, to partially disenfranchise him. Maybe it's something new in our parliamentary political system. We wait with great joy for the continuation of your continuous saga, your brilliant coalition of intricacies, crazy projects and bottomless holes in the national budget. Let me just say a few things that these funds could have been spent on. Saving every company 47 euros a year, every municipality in Serbia that is not such a move by your government and government, could have built a modernly equipped school and kindergarten annually, every municipality. Five thousand socially endangered families could get apartments for 300m euros. The aid of 10,000 dinars per month for 20,000 maternity and 250,000 citizens who are over 70 years old and have no other income. With all the basics, high school students and students in Serbia, a new computer a year, each policeman gets a new "Fiat 500 L" and not just a minister. The culture budget would be five times bigger, but you don't care about culture. The science budget would be three times bigger, but you don't care either. We could buy 10 MiG-29 every year. Imagine those joys and joys when you go to Soča for 30 pieces, not 10. Otherwise, according to the National Employment Service data, only in the first two months of this year, as I said, the government lost 30,000 jobs, meaning, dear citizens, 500 people lose their jobs daily in Serbia. The average earnings were relatively lower in March by 7.6% compared to the same month in the previous year, while in the first three months it was realistically lower by 5.4%, in transport it was slightly spent as little as 17.5% lower, in the first three months 12% lower. This is obvious evidence that worse and worse lives in Serbia and that people no longer have anything to buy and what to spend, bills that they can't pay, can't do anything in Serbia. You, instead of dispensing them, are thus far making this truly unremarked fiscal gymnastics of our economic experimentators, the esteemed who sit before us and the DS is standing here and looking at you, expecting yours fully prepared, otherwise you repeatedly state the truth about how we're guilty, only we live in the real world right now. You adopt these things for the future. Gentlemen of the majority, it's all your fault, not just one minister. From that government decision, it's all your fault. They won't even adopt that amendment as your lawyers. Did you hear that a little while ago? And that amendment you saw from us, they're not going to adopt it either. I don't know how you think you're gonna change this situation. Otherwise, the public debt reached 19.4 billion euros in eight months, which means that the new government owed Serbia 4 billion euros. We've repeated that more than once. Minister Dinkic thinks he confirmed it in some way. We're still waiting for those advanced 10 billion a year. However, you have managed 100m euros in foreign investment to bring, well done. I don't know how percent that's compared to what's announced. Mahma's investments were agreed during Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic, but well, we're not going to split now. Otherwise, we have managed 2.2 billion euros to enable foreign direct investment in the last year of our mandate. You made 100 million. Without that, as you know, there will hardly be any significant employment. Every household in Serbia, gentlemen, is additionally in charge of 1,600 euros. Three times faster than the previous government. Those stories that he reduced public debt are a marketing trick. You're in charge of 4.4 billion, and you pay back 400 million. Great, great thing. You owe some thousand euros, borrow from the bank for a thousand and you say -- here, I've paid back a thousand euros, and those five hundred I don't owe, it doesn't actually exist. It's you. I don't think you know any basics, unfortunately. The debt coming back was agreed by Mr Dinkic in 2004. It's his turn to bring him back. That's it, for the truth's sake. Our investments in Serbia have come down to the hope that sheik from the Arab Emirates will buy everything in Serbia. We were not against investment from the United Arab Emirates, we are not against any investment, but since Fiat participates with as much as 20% in Serbia's overall exports, our entire economy depends, in fact, on the sale of one car model, and even for a much happier country than we are, it's really very lax. With these trends and these indicators that we have now pointed to, I don't see how we're going to continue in the same strength consolidation, with the same assurances by the minister that it's okay, that the situation is difficult, though, I'm glad that we agreed here, but it's not catastrophic, that the situation is bad, but we haven't failed, that the situation is in charge, but not so much, that the situation is going to sink, but not so fast. Citizens, relax, everything's fine. You've got a great Formula driver who only drives 60 an hour, and there's a break-in outside. If we add to 200, we'll really get there faster, I'm sure. What is certain is that, unfortunately, an industrial production decline of 1.3 has been recorded in the strongest export category, which is the production of motor vehicles, as an external trade deficit of 44m euros has been achieved in the first three months. Exports of 360 million and imports of 404m euros. Exports of agricultural products, this is only scandalous, in the first quarter is down 46%. After many years, we again have a deficit in agricultural products trade of 36.3m euros. These are, unfortunately, the sad economic policy indicators of this government. This government has no knowledge, no expertise, no vision, no courage, no ability to cut costs. She says everything stays the same, we're in charge. We've got nowhere else to go. We'll push your hand deeper into your pocket, and otherwise you see it with the local authorities, it has nothing to do with us. Otherwise, for the sake of illustration, because of citizens, one apartment in Belgrade, for example, in the Old Town will be increased by 622% on the basis of the tax proposed. Dear citizens, you will pay a higher tax of 622%. Well, let him take Gilas, so he can take his taxes, that's what you say. Who's gonna do it? Maybe not Markovic Palm, 'cause he's got budget donations. Who do you mean? You don't think anybody understands what you're doing in Serbia. The 50-square apartment will be more expensive by 622%. I'm sorry, I'm taxing. It's another thing. We have some locations in Belgrade where the tax will be increased by 868%. Let's say, on Stardust, the apartment will be taxed by seven hundred and slightly increased if this happens. That's what citizens need to know. They need to know. You paid a tax of 2,000 per apartment, if this is adopted, you'll pay 36,000 dinars, the smallest apartment, to the smallest possible apartment. Well, thanks, if I understand correctly, correct me if I'm wrong, the pensioners from Chačka or Vranjska Banja, who called you, did not introduce that tax on the extra apartment in which to live, and perhaps it is. We have different interpretations here. Maybe that pensioner's name is Alexander Vukitch, I'm not sure... (President: Time. In any case, I think we are entering a huge problem in this country - economic, fiscal and any other, which will be able to resolve either your departure, Mr Dinkic, or the fall of this government, which the citizens of Serbia, measured by economic criteria, and how they wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16931	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16932	I expected that the time you spent outside the government affected your becoming objective and telling the truth. You're now telling more lies than ever. As you can see, the opposition here criticised the laws, but they were all objective. Why the need not to tell the truth? What's the need for exaggeration? You're exaggerating. You're exaggerating. Let's take it in a row. First, where did you even get the moral right to criticise the budget deficit when the government, where you led the entire government and the finance ministry, left a budget deficit of 7.75% of GDP? The greatest in history. It's going to end this year. We'll get it together and we'll see. It won't be the way I predicted it would be, what the government wanted it to be, but it'll be smaller than what you left us. Is it fair that you who did this miracle with a huge debt, do you know how much you owed the country during your government's term of office? Nine billion dollars. The debt, for the sake of truth, has grown only a billion and $400 million so far. The fiscal council says it will go two billion by the end of the year, but has grown in previous years far faster. Last year - three billion. Last year – two billion and 600. Two, three years ago -- two billion and 300. It's all nine billion dollars together. You don't have the right to talk about public debt, when you essentially left an empty register, no dinar reserves, which I'm talking about now, and then, what, are we supposed to leave without the pensioners getting pensions? Of course, we had to go to the market in September, October, November, and get the money to support some of the holes you left behind. Since you are not ashamed -- six million euros is a pity for the citizens of Serbia, because of your poor management and the destruction of Agrobanks and the "Vojvodine Development Bank". Do you know what 600 million euros have been translated into dinars? That's 70 billion dinars. This is not anxiety, this is anger because you have no moral responsibility, instead of apologizing to the citizens, to admit your share of responsibility. I will never escape my share of responsibility. Why don't you look up to the other leaders of the opposition? I don't expect you to starve and pet me. Be a man, not make-up. Keep going. Are we wrong to lift 138 parafiscal duties on the economy? Of course not. That Gilas regrets that he can no longer charge taxes to the stores, which he can't charge the hairdressers for, that he can't tax everything alive and dead, that's his problem. They would have abolished those 138 parafiscal duties again, because it's our interest that the economy be relieved. What did you do in the capital when you were talking about the capital you've been running for years? The most indebted city in Serbia is Belgrade. Who's to blame here? Who ran it? Is that what I ran? Sixty per cent of total revenues are the participation of Belgrade's long city. What big project did Gilas set himself up? Not a single one. The bridge on Adi was arranged by the late Nenad Bogdanovic and his administration arranged it, and he just came to the opening. I don't want to question the cost of that bridge, my colleagues from the SNS probably have something to say, and there are probably others who will do it. It's another thing. The Chinese Bridge – did Gilas arrange it? Of course not. It was contracted by me and Mrs Kalanovic, with the support of your president, Boris Tadic. Then you were loyal to Jeremiah and to Tadic, as you were to Gilas in the same way, and that is your problem. However, the point is that the city of Belgrade cannot develop by having taxes, taxes, imposes, complicated bureaucracy, corruption in public services. Why has the "Yugoslavia" hotel been in that state for 10 years? Why aren't we allowed to do something about building in Belgrade? Where are the big capital projects? What about city transport? Why don't you ask yourself that? Do you have a problem with the Republic Government? Is that where you might not be able to collect some income? You can't just spread your arms and wait for your money to fall out of the sky. As far as other things are concerned, it is incorrect that industrial production is smaller this year. It may not have grown enough, but 5.2% higher in the first quarter compared to the same period last year. That's certainly not enough, but it's not true it's smaller. Also, it's not true that any money is being spent on gondola. If you follow the reports, you will see that this is a public-private partnership, which I advise you to do when you lead Belgrade. What does that mean? That means the private investor invests, and the state only gives the land, doesn't give money for it. There's no money for shipbuilding. I don't know where you came up with that. It doesn't exist. There's no money that's supposed to go for shipbuilding, it's not given, it doesn't exist. I'm just asking you to tell the truth. When you say that it is reportedly going to suffer kindergartens now, what kindergartens, when the city of Belgrade spends on subsidising GSP 10 billion a year, Malta, which is the same subsidy for the entire "Serb Railways" that have always been a loser for decades. Why does city transport have to be a loser? Ten billion, 100 million euros a year goes for it. Because someone doesn't have the guts to make a reform, and this is where they want to make reforms and teach how to make reforms. For this I am that everyone who has not participated in the government should and must criticise because reforms are being carried out slowly. You have no rights that you have not implemented in the past five years, neither in the Republic nor in the city of Belgrade, which is leading your party president. In this regard, the fact that it is necessary to restructure not only the republican enterprises but also the rich and urban municipal enterprises. Did we change any proportions in the distribution of income taxes? No, 80% stays with cities and municipalities and 20% goes to the Republic. Instead of forcing investors from Belgrade, Mr. Gilas should attract them, put into office the "Yugoslavija" hotel, and then collect the stake that goes to Belgrade from the profit tax. It's an absolute fantasy that the property tax is supposed to grow, I don't know what you've invented, 622% or 800%. Where do you see that? What kind of math did you do? Nor does the rate change in law. It is possible to charge more tax on property to legal persons through an assessment of fair market value. Are you saying that 800 percent will be taxing 10 acres of city building land that is now not taxed? Of course not, but it's an excuse because Gilas will sooner charge that tax to people in Old Town and not go to Santa's to collect taxes where they have those who are rich. Fortunately, for the citizens to know, this law does not come into force this year. The entry from January 1st next year, so you will see that such a tax will not be applied because Gilas will not apply it. He will no longer be mayor of Belgrade since the new year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16933	Zoran Babic, a replica of Mr Stefanovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16934	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, to me, the presentation of an authorised DS representative looked like when you enter the theater, the curtain is down, you sit down, you hear a fantastic song, an excellent interpretation, but let's raise that curtain. When we raise that curtain we see that it's actually a playback, that it's released from some tape player, we hear microphones, rustling, painting and nothing concrete. I want to ask this interpreter - where are those schools, where are your kindergartens, where were those moments up to a year ago? Where'd they go? Why aren't they in Serbia? Why is it that after 12 years of your reign a rich country is not arranged where children will go to such decorated kindergartens and schools? I know you won't answer me or the Serbian public. I'll tell you. There they are in Agrobanks, there they are in the Vojvodine Development Bank, there they are in the Vojvodina Development Fund, burned, spent, destroyed, stolen. Now such singers, those who only cared about their fees, only themselves who cared, have now taken care of kindergartens and schools and moments that this country and this government will also buy and make. Gentlemen, don't play house on the break-in. It's got to be stamped first. First, what you've destroyed and what you've taken home, what we've seen process and how the state is fighting these people, to close and then build a house. First, it must return 11.5 billion dinars that this government and this budget must return to the road because of delays. You didn't predict the trainmen's 12th salary for last year. To save deposits for the Development Bank 18 million, as well as for Agrobank. What's up with that? We'll forget about that. Then we'll say, time, turkey dots don't work. It's not enough the political price you've paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16935	Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16936	It is very inspiring when a representative of the SNS, deputy head of theatre stories, people who adopted the continuous libretto – how much I love my leader. It's on the side. What's for sure, Minister Dinkic, is that I'm really surprised by the bit and the roughness of your words, little perhaps in some parts of increased emotions, I don't know why, but more than that, I'm amazed by the fact that you don't know your birth budget, which you said the child is here in front of us, and that absolutely the first time you've raised your heads behind it. Now I can see that you don't know that there's a 1.1 billion worth of shipbuilding in your ministry's division. What do you mean, it's gone? Then you don't know, or you don't know your budget. We'll give you a photocopy. I think the fact that only you, this authority in this year, have owed 1.5 billion euros. The fact is that you totalled over four billion in debt. The fact is, in the last year, he grew his debt by three billion, but of that, two billion since you were the finance minister. It is seven billion euros in public debt by four years of the previous government. This government in eight months, Serbian citizens, four billion, and now you count, and they're telling us about the theatre. What's a fact is that it's not convenient to talk about loyalty, Mr. Dinkic, because you're in the government with the people who wore your prison uniform and it's not convenient to talk about parafiscal duties that have been lifted because you introduced them. Mr. Dinkic, your bakers and video hairdressers are chasing you around town for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16937	Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16938	You speak the exact figures, nine billion grew during the government's mandate, while Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic was the same. If I said dollars, I was wrong. The exact figure is nine billion euros. It has increased by billions and 400m euros in public debt since the end of last year. What's the fact is that you can't count that if the government went into effect in August and had to pay in August and September of the debt, and you left an empty register that was a burden on the government's public debt. That's ridiculous. If you had left the register full, and said, "You are in so much debt." There was no money 20 days in advance. It was a bankruptcy of the state and of course we avoided it. The situation isn't easy right now, that's what I was saying, but it's just a request to tell the truth. Facts are hard enough to have the need to exaggerate. If you want to be serious, you're telling the truth. It's a tough situation. Unlike the previous period, we could use a consensus to make an agreement on what kind of reform to make. We will go into reforms with or without consensus, but we are deeply aware that only with the general consensus of these reforms can they be effective and successful. We have to do this because we won't let the deficit go to the levels it's going to reach unless the spending is cut. I repeat once again, everyone must save. It must save the city of Belgrade, too. It must save the Republic, too. It must also save the province of Vojvodina. Taxes can't be raised in the economy. If the economy doesn't grow, no one from the state has a chance. We need to give priority to the private sector over the public sector. We need to cut costs in the public sector. That's quite clear. All that would go for a guy – let's now have the whole personification of this as teachers and kindergartens is demagogy. I think we're serious people and let's talk seriously about everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16939	Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16940	Absolutely all the data, respected citizens, dear fellow MPs, brought here by the DS and me as head of the parliamentary group under full moral, material and criminal responsibility I claim to be absolutely 100% correct. What do we do now? You say they're not true. The citizens will unfortunately be judges when they see how much worse they will be after these measures. That's the problem. You can say a hundred times it's not true when it is. This is what we seem, that despite what we say, on the one hand, to the intersection of the catastrophic state in the economy and public finances, on the other hand, the further destruction of citizens of Serbia by the bill we ask you to withdraw from the procedure, it is on the two sides, and on the third hand, you are now telling us – that is not true, we are going to reform. Reforms are, to translate into Serbian citizens what you said, because I have to translate them – we have no money, we are in charge, no one gives us anything anymore, I have to take from you to pay you back after that money into retirement and pay. It's the economy of your government. It's the SNS economy. You're behind it. Don't ask us about kindergartens. Only in Belgrade, under all possible pressures and obstructions, over 40 kindergartens were built, not to talk about Vojvodina. These are the people who made the surplus in their budgets, and now you want to take it all away from them. You promised, gentlemen, everything contrary to what you're doing. It's unrecorded in political history. You said decentralisation, regionalization, money at the bar. There's no more money. Dear citizens, you voted for the ORS -- the impoverished regions of Serbia. They took all your money from the bar, and they said otherwise. Dear citizens, the Serbian unprofessional party... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... She promised progress, reform, billions, there's none of that. It's our duty to say it, and without it, only when we've established it is we're building a house. By the time you find out, gentlemen, the wind will blow us all away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16941	Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16942	I'm just asking you to share all MPs of the National Assembly and the entire public with that account of yours, where the apartment in the Old City, the property tax will increase 622%. Why? First, if it happens in the Old Town, and it doesn't happen in Novi Sad, it doesn't happen in Nis, it doesn't happen in any other Serbian city, do you know what that means? It means that Gilas is doing it, simple and simple. This is not a law for any city or municipality individually. The property tax is determined by the decisions of the City Assembly. If Gilas decides to make such a preparation in the city, to raise the odds, to charge in the Old Town 600% tax, and that doesn't happen in the same area in Nis or Kragujevac, what is it? It's a cover-up, then, what you know best. Take cover behind someone else for your incompetence, and yell the skin out to the citizens. Go ahead, do it, go ahead, but how are you going to prove that it's objective and that it comes out of this law if nowhere in another city happens? We haven't changed our rate, and in Old Town, is there an garden, if you're talking about gardens? They're gone. You can only make this a discretionary decision by Dragan Gilas. If you do, call it your real name, and I'm against it, let me tell you right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16943	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16944	I'm going to start the same way as my colleague did a little before - under full criminal, material and any other responsibility, I'm going to say the next thing. The city of Belgrade in 2008 owed 50m euros. For a city this size, I think it's something that's normal, which is also natural by the number of people and by everything else. The city of Belgrade, at this point in 2013, under the continued rule of these professional Democrats, without any burdens, without anything at all, currently owes the city directly 450m euros, public enterprises that are the founder of the city of Belgrade, 451m euros. What profession makes 18 times the debt for bridges that serve only to land on it and get some light? Who's passing that bridge? What's relieved? What's done? Where are those schools? Where are your kindergartens? Where did this money go? In five years, 18 times. What kind of professional DS has made such a debt? Let's talk about it. Let's talk details. Public enterprises, 451m euros. Have you seen any new trucks? Have you seen anything innovative, anything better? How do the Belgraders live? Worse and worse. Eighteen times you've assigned this town, 18 times in these five years. Don't do that again. Don't honor some things that aren't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16945	Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16946	Injury of Article 27. This has been going on too long and I have reacted because you allow MPs here to claim that they are speaking under criminal, material, and I do not know what other responsibility they are, and in this case MPs are under immunity here. If immunity is already denied, then take care of what happens. There's the rest of the opposition here. We agree with each other. It was a disaster past the government, this one is even more catastrophic. Just to stop these pointless debates about who's in a hurry. If we talk about Belgrade, there are some municipalities run by other parties in Belgrade, so I'm going to open Zemun's question now, there's a campaign going on, so this session will never end. When Mr Dinkic says something will be the decision of the mayor of Gilas, then I am not sure, as both SPS and PUPS sit in that power. You will finally get that there are two parties here with a clean policy, it is not far from the truth – DSS and LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16947	Since Mr. Djuric insists on reason always, I will say that I think he is not a injured member of 27. The Rules of Procedure, because each MP in expressing his political will has the right to use the way he thinks he best expresses that will. But in one thing I will listen to you, Mr. Djuric, given that we have been very long on this subject, I would like to finish my line and give my word to Mr. Vladimir Ilic, as an authorised representative of the URS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16948	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is starting to look like Parliament and I like it. Mr. Jovanovic resented the lack of energy, I agree with that finding. I think we got a little more energy after discussing my distinguished colleague Stefanovic. But I have to notice that you've performed extremely bravely, given everything we know about the DS, about how you managed both Belgrade and the Republic. I wonder, where did you get the courage to say such things? I'll remind you what you said, that someone's dragging their hands into the public's pocket. Let's ask the citizens who dragged their hand into their pocket when it comes to Agrobank, the Vojvodine Development Bank, when it comes to malfeasance with the help of the King, when it comes to Leskovac and many other things. Are you wondering where your colleagues from DS are from, top of the party? Some are in prison, some are on charges, some are being investigated seriously, and this is about abuse of the very budget of the Republic of Serbia and just to get their hands in the pocket. I am sorry, I have prepared a discussion for today in a completely different tone, but after what Mr. Stefanovic said, my discussion will be something different. The theme is serious. We agreed that the situation in Serbia is difficult and that no one is slow. What we do not agree on is surely who is responsible and who is responsible for this situation. One will say – that is the previous government or previous governments, others will say – that is this government, we will not agree on any way to get out of the crisis. You made a very interesting proposal. I'd agree with him on condition. You mentioned the resignation of the finance minister and proposed a deputy, Dragan Gilas. I think it's a good proposal, but on one condition, provided that you and Dragan Gilas promise to increase the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the same way as he increased the revenues of his companies "Darekt Media", "Multicom Group", and here's a list of 15 companies, if necessary, I'll read them by 1,000 percent. His company's revenues increased 983% from the moment he entered the political scene to this day. You mentioned those percentages -- 600, 700, 800, 900, 1,000 times they will increase to citizens. It's a classic replacement thesis. It has nothing to do with the truth. By the way, I've been doing it, so I know. Taxes on assets in all budget incomes, all levels of government, participate with less than 1%, i.e. 0.7%. So, what you're talking about about imposing on citizens, it doesn't make any sense, it's pure nonsense. Ask yourself why Belgrade is in trouble when it's run by such a capable manager? Why is Belgrade in charge of more than 60% of its annual incomes? Why does he owe 458m euros? On the other hand, 15 companies, Mr. Gilas, record amazing results in business, increase their revenues by hundreds of percent. Why are you running away from it? He's a successful man. That's what qualified him to do, and if you and him guarantee that he's going to increase budget revenues in the same way, I don't mind if he's the new finance minister. But I'm afraid that's the way he behaves only in his companies, because if it were different, the city of Belgrade would have far higher incomes. Now let's go back to the laws that may be the smallest subject today. No one runs away from the situation being difficult. The fiscal council also gave an opinion on this set of laws and on the economic situation in the country. What are the key amendments to the law today? The first change is an increase in compulsory pension contributions by 2%, a reduction in income tax from 12% to 10% and an increase in non-taxable profit from 8,700 to 11,000 dinars. We heard about this intro from the minister himself - what are the direct consequences of these measures? The direct consequences are the stabilisation of the Pension Fund, an annual increase of 26 billion, that is, over the course of this year by some 15 billion, on the other side of the redundancies of the economy, not so significantly, I agree, but still, the disbursement of 1.7% billion on this basis and with the rest of the package of about four or five billion dinars will be a less burden on the economy, as well as a reduction in the budget of local self-government. Nobody slows it down and nobody's happy about it. About this today, it was a controversy, even in the direction that it was an annulment of fiscal decentralisation and that it was directed against cities and municipalities. The situation is that we are all forced to make certain savings, both the Republic and the local and all alike have to bear the burden of this crisis. If I choose, on the one hand, between income cuts to the Republic and the locale, and on the other hand the possibility of bankruptcy, I will always choose first. After all, all of us here, including municipalities and cities, are pushing for tax cuts and contributions to profits. Now that you're doing something like that, everyone's complaining. I know there's nothing popular about taxes, no people, no one likes to pay taxes, but taxes are something that ensures that we all live together in one orderly country. If we expect the regularity of wages and the regularity of pensions, social giving, infrastructure, health care and education, then we must be prepared to bear that burden. There's been a lot of talk about the property tax. I already said at first, I really think someone's trying to intimidate the citizens that they're going to be charged a tax on the garden, on the pighouse, on the barn, but that's nonsense. Truth be told, that's what I've been doing, so I know maybe a little bit more than the others. The property tax in Serbia is one of the lowest taxes in all of Europe, as I have already mentioned. So 0.7% of all government income comes from that tax. The normal tax burden for other countries ranges between 5% and 7%. What is particularly important and what should be said, this tax covers under 50% of all buildings in Serbia, buildings, houses and apartments. Our local self-government simply has neither the courage nor the will, which is just a matter of desire and ambition to do something, to collect this tax. It is easier for them to get from the Republic without effort, not to blame the citizens, because, of course, most of the mayors or presidents of the municipalities complain that they will lose the election if they charge this tax. Finally, I want to say that we will support this set of laws, for the simple reason that these laws are all reformable, are part of a fiscal strategy that has been adopted and of course will contribute to the stabilisation of public finances. The assessment of these laws was given by the Fiscal Council and made a positive statement on each individual law. It's something that needs to be guaranteed that the laws will have a certain effect. Shall we overcome all problems with these laws? Of course we won't, but we need to support the government and we need to make bold decisions. I expect the government to enter structural reforms seriously in the coming period, to go towards reducing public spending, to introduce order into public enterprises and thus contribute to overall stabilisation. I have no doubt that the Ministry of Finance and Business, along with the entire government, will insist on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16949	The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16950	Dear colleague, I respect that you worked in the tax authorities, you know that this is a difficult and honorable occupation, very unpopular in Serbia, but the fact is that the data are absolutely accurate, which, otherwise, is not DS data, but Public Revenue Administrations. So, on that side, I really want to try to convince you that our projection here is not based on mirage organs, it's more of a responsibility to you from power, and we don't deal with mirage. Otherwise, the fact is, that's what we've heard now, that this law actually concerns one name, which you've abused as our desire to be Minister of Finance. We don't want Dragan Gilas to be the finance minister in this government. We believe that much better shows the intricacies, incompetence, and the sunroof of this government the fact that you are doing such a responsible job. Believe us, the citizens of Serbia see it more and more every day. We agree there are a lot of things to explore. We agree on Agrobank and all other things. Let's not bother any more citizens, let the prosecution get tired of it, but we also think they should move a little bit to the Postage Savings, the Commercial Bank and others, see how they've been giving out loans, which are security, to just finally overcome that unnecessary politicization. I hope you don't mind and do the same thing at the Post Office, see how much they gave for the Development Bank, which, for what, how many things were there and who was to blame. Then I'm sure we'll agree to that. By the way, this power, unfortunately, through these bill proposals, has shown, that's what I'm going to end up with, a very, very bad motivation. You've put in a political attempt to deal with one man. That is now confirmed by the minister mentioning the name Dragan Gilas six times. How are your folks in Trieste, where 20,000 people don't work at First Five? How are your folks gonna get into Kragujevac, where they fight with the police? What are we gonna do with them? How many schools did they build? Do you think they can handle this? I'm sure he won't. So, this is not a personal matter, this is a matter of ignorance, this is a matter of the sun of Serbian finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16951	Vladimiri Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16952	I agree, Mr Stefanovic, to investigate all companies including the Commercial Bank and whoever you mentioned, anyone who violates the law dealing with crime and corruption should be sanctioned. By the way, I remembered, when you mentioned Triestenik, unemployed, you also mentioned that according to the National Service, the number of unemployed was increased by 30,000. That's right. So you said they were out of a job. Just to correct you. All those who apply to the National Service records don't mean they lost their job, some of them finished school and signed up for the first time, just so you know. Let me explain. Of course, the number of unemployed in Serbia is huge, large, and everyone who is single without a job means nothing to him, means that there is a chance of finding a job. As far as local self-government is concerned, I'm not afraid for them. Among them are those who are able to compensate for this lack of income, those who are creative legal solutions that have now been made create opportunities for them to gradually increase the tax. This 80 per cent profit tax ratio allows any municipality that ensures the arrival of investors or employment to gradually increase its income. Be assured that no local self-government will have any funding problems by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16953	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really listened to inspired speeches today, and I can really express my admiration to some of my fellow Members of the people that they are able to pronounce some sentences, and that, in the right sense of the word, as our people say, they remain alive. When it comes to public finances and the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, it did not come yesterday. Not even in August 2012, because a good part of the budget deficit actually goes to cover some other loans in which the government did not participate. Neither can anyone say anything to him, here in the Assembly, and then ask the MPs, after he has finished his word on the success or failure of the Government, to return to the topic. Just for a few examples, since someone, I think, mentioned MiG-29 M2 planes, to say that one group of thugs stole two of those planes from Serbia. Only in one affair. It is the case of Azotara, a former agriculture minister, so illegal in the name of 10,000 tonnes of fertilizer, 10,000 dinars per tonne, delivered the fertilizer to the PKK, which in an illegal and irregular manner gained a profit of 258 million 460,000 dinars. So Gilas's company got out of the budget no less than nearly 260 million dinars. Or, we don't want to mention the names of some companies that didn't have the right to regress, Azotara extremely pedantically charged it out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and reselling it to farmers at a far higher price. For example, it only works on one job 289 million 324 thousand. Well, then at some next job, $394 million 525 grand. On this basis, Azotara again gained the right to charge a grant from the Republic of Serbia's budget of 646 million 592 thousand. So she delivered it to companies, and that's only four companies, an artificial fertilizer of 2 billion 38 million 110 thousand 20 dinars. One minister, an ex-minister, can freely say "mugup", has eased the budget of the Republic of Serbia by four billion dinars. Now you're surprised we're lost. What's the government doing again? What's our deficit? Or when it comes to famous banks such as the Vojvodina Development Bank or Agrobank, 18 billion dinars were paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and from other different deposit insurance funds up to 600m euros. Or, to re-explanatoryly explain, that's half the deficit that the state has designed in the 2013 Budget Law. Now if we didn't just have these two or three affairs, one logical question is asked – would we have to change the legislation and have to do budget rebalances? Well, you wouldn't. That's the problem. I agree that we cannot blame the previous government for any future, but as we pay the debts of the previous authorities, we are ready to accept responsibility for what we are doing, but also to tell the citizens why we are doing it. So don't blame us, you should have taken care of it while you were in power. I don't want to get into some big controversy over the fact that these taxes are literally going to skin the backs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would disagree. First of all, there is a reduction in the untaxable share in the payment of personal incomes. There's no one here to say that it's not a certain stimulation, that the gray economy is gradually returning to legal currents. What steams and eyes and ears is this famous story that taxes will be charged on both stables and pigs, on chickens. Although the law says that agricultural facilities are exempt from tax, or someone has not read the law. That famous story about charging the garden and making it hot potatoes with local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, those local self-governments that are underdeveloped and poor and the value of real estate in them is small. So the tax rate can't even be big. In addition, they are at least financed from real resources, rather than from the transfer funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So don't cry on some grave that doesn't exist, you make it up. Also, those a little more serious local self-government and a little richer will have to imagine what the business of local self-government is. Do you want me to take care of the streets? Yes, it is. Does he have a utility infrastructure, so, a plumbing, a sewer? Yes, it is. Warm-up? It is, but the first and most basic purpose of a local self-government is to create conditions for the development of its self-government, and in this development is the most understood industry. That's what local self-governments do at least today. If you want to try anywhere, at least file a request to get permission to build an industrial facility. You'll be surprised how much time it takes for me from SNS and we're planning an office for quick answers, in order to shorten these procedures, but also to manage these units of local self-government must imagine what their employees are doing, or to be more plastic, because it's normal for local self-government in 2009 to raise loans of 545 million dinars in euros, dinar countervalue, of course, and that every year the same directorate for the construction of that local self-government in the city's budget returns 700 million dinars? Do I have to say that at the time, the DS was in power in that municipality? Either the smallest income, i.e. the biggest difference between the planned revenues and the revenue achieved in the Republic of Serbia's budget, is based on the corporate income tax. Has anyone made a difference why this difference is so big? Question. And the theme is to read the agenda, you'll see that the tax on the profit of legal persons is the subject, the point of the agenda. Obviously, you don't read the laws, not just the laws, but you don't read the agenda, and that's where I can't help you. It's time for Dragan Gilas too. The reason is therefore the curricula that companies had to cover when forming a final account and creating a taxable part or to explain slightly differently, many companies were in debt in 2011 to remain on the market in loans that had a foreign exchange clause, and then there was a jump in the euro, with such high interest rates and profits of the companies that were created in 2012 because the loans from 2011 were returned. That's why it's so different. When was the biggest dinar course? On the last day of Governor Šoškovic 119,04. Imagine how long it took from 119,04 to 111, how much more able it took once to manage the National Bank to return the course to the real world. What do we do with that? Because speculators did everything and everything on the market, because you've passed a bad foreign exchange law, so that a legal person can open a daughter company, for example. in Romania, which will deliver a product and service bill to him, to bring out foreign currency from the country and that there is no obligation to return it. Was it like that? It was like that. We're making amendments to the National Bank Act. You are transferring foreign exchange control exclusively to the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Finance when the finance minister was Mirko Cvetkovic, as well as the Prime Minister, so that this could be done. That's how you run the country. That's why we have these laws now. We're not happy with them. No one, nor Minister Dinkic, nor we from the SNS, but we have to do something to provide funds for both pensions and education and health care for both the military and the police. We need to secure the funds to pay back the debts you've made. That's the problem. Are these laws the best we could say here in the congregation? We could probably do even better, but not at this point, and you're very well aware of that. That's the problem. You would have the right to be angry if you had left no zero in the Republic of Serbia's budget, you left us minus two billion and 400 million euros, only in 2012. That's why we have this budget now, which is why we have low production, so we can't subsidize everything we'd like to subsidize, start and reform Serbia, because of these reforms, the Serbian people have remained hungry and thirsty and thirsty and barefoot, and we're doing at least to stop this collapse, if we can't offer him a better standard so that in the voting day, the SNS will definitely support this set of laws, not because we think it's the happiest solution, but only possible at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16955	The word has a folk MP, Slavica Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16956	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected MPs and MPs, failed to pass the process of consideration on Serbia's socio-economic council, which is why the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia and other trade unions are unsatisfactory. The Council's competence is to consider draft laws and proposals and other rules of importance for the economic and social situation of employees and employers and should give its opinion and conclusions on them. That's why I'm suggesting something like this isn't happening in the future. I will refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. The analysis of tax burdens and contributions to a valid legal solution, under the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on income tax, without changing the rate of contribution for PIO and with the change in the rate of contribution for PIO, can conclude that the amendment of the Law relating to taxes, contributions and individual categories of earnings has been achieved. Under the applicable Act, the burden of minimum earnings of average earnings and net earnings of e.g. One hundred thousand dinars is 59.3%, 63.9 and 66.4%. The proposed changes would weigh 58.9% and 63.7% and 66.3% respectively. So, for minimum profit, the discharge is 0.4%, with an average of 0.2%. A hundred thousand dinars worth 0.1%. The burden of profit is growing slightly up to a five-fold rate of average profit when it starts to fall sharply. For 100 dinars, the minimum earnings that an employee carries home are allocated 58.90 dinars of taxes and contributions in total. In the case of earnings that are seven times the average of 100 dinars, only 48.30 dinars of taxes and contributions are allocated. If the non-taxable part of the profit instead of 11,000 was 20, the minimum profit burden would be 51.4 and 60.3% for the average profit, on the name of taxes and contributions, which would give savings of 8.9 and 3.6 for the average profit. Therefore, with high earnings, a progressive tax model should be introduced and a minimum profit should be free of burdens, as the tax model should encourage employment in real economy and raise awareness of the grey economy to a minimum. The grey economy is 30% of GDP at the moment, and there is a need to reduce and encourage new employment, which are encouraging measures when it comes to workload. As for the revenue of the PIO Fund, they would increase by about 26 billion to 27 billion annually, and the participation of the transfer from the Republic's budget would decrease. The budget transfer in the mid-1990s was 14%, let's say in 2011, about 47%. But it is not enough to reduce the budget transfer just this way, it is necessary to change the deficit state of the fund through its restructuring by applying short- and long-term measures. In addition to several good elaborates of experts from this area, the Fund’s Working Group of Management Board has sent a letter with the intentions adopted by the Fund’s Management Board with a proposal for measures to contribute to the improvement of the financing structure of the PIO Fund, the transfer of the pensioner’s health financing obligation to the Republic’s budget, the transfer of the obligation to finance compensation for other people’s care and assistance, physical damage and disability insurance compensation to the social security system, do not include the obligation of the State to finance pensions under special regulations and the difference to the lowest pension in the transfers of the Republic. Excluse from grants, these are transfers from the Ministry of Finance, missing funds to finance the payment of the rights of farmers and military insurance companies and to show them as transfers of the resolution ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Making proceeds from the assets of the fund owned and potential assets created by the fund for decades, but for several reasons it does not own or generate income. In October 2011, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Public Property with the proposed amendment, which stipulates that the organisation of compulsory social security, i.e. the fund, has the sole right of ownership, and this gives hope that the restructuring of the fund is possible, and thus disbursement of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will back the laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16957	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16958	The President-in-Office, no minister, respected fellow MPs, is ahead of us with a set of tax laws aimed, among other things, at reducing the budget deficit, which for the previous four months is as much as 78 billion, which is quite a large sum, given that the planned deficit for the whole year is 120 billion. It's normal and logical that the government wants to reduce that deficit, we support it, but we can't support the way it does. For who knows which time, those who are weak will be paid again, those who have the least money. In this case, it is primarily the majority of Serbian citizens, then certain entrepreneurs and local self-government. I'll tell you that cutting taxes from 12 to 10% will hit my Kruševac by about 300 million. This means that the town of Kruševac won't be able to realise the projects plotted, many citizens will lose their asphalt road, some without water, someone without this, someone without that. You can say that it can be compensated by the property tax, but I am responsible for telling you that it cannot be compensated, that 300 million cannot be compensated from the property tax for the simple reason that citizens simply don't have the money. They might want to pay that tax, because that tax will fund their projects, but there's just no money. You now have the example that in Kruševec people strike hunger because they can't eat, they can't feed their families, and now they have a new charge of property taxes. So this can't be good, and we suggest you take these laws off the agenda. The ZZS parliamentary group also proposes a way in which you may be able to reduce the budget deficit without jeopardising citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, you have a big space to reduce expenditure and savings, it just depends on political will, political courage first of all. If you have political courage, I think you can come up with a good source of resources. Financial discipline is very low. So a faster, better and more efficient tax charge can also reduce the deficit and that is another measure that can be implemented. In the last two months, I have traveled a lot with Serbia starting a party of the ZZ and then I have seen that there is equality in one part between Belgrade and other Serbian cities. Equality is seen in the fact that most catering facilities are also in Belgrade, but in Serbia it does not issue fiscal bills. So, absolutely at the expense of the state, more courage, get in control and you'll get the money. What leaves the most space and where it also takes a lot of courage to do, is to contain the gray economy. Never in Serbia has the grey economy been on a higher level than it is today. So in every town, you can get at every market, so the people say, "from needle to locomotive." So, the goods of broad consumption, everything can be found in the markets, which means that the borders of the Republic of Serbia have become very ugly. So, imports are imported without customs, without taxes, huge goods and, of course, it has a direct impact on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because I repeat, no taxes are paid, no customs duties are paid. On the other hand, this way you kill those who pay taxes, and these are small businessmen who would like to help, who would like to pay and who pay, but simply no longer have traffic, some don't pay, and some do check out their actions. So, curbing the gray economy is your priority interest, and hopefully you'll have the strength and courage to do it. There is no Minister Dinkic, but I will say, as he advocates centralisation that I have the impression that fiscal centralisation is being carried out with this set of laws. When fiscal centralisation is carried out, there is no speech on other forms of decentralisation and will therefore vote against the Law on Income Tax, that is, its amendments and the amendment of the Property Tax Act. There is much more to talk about, but our group has little time, so I'll leave something to say to Mrs. Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16959	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16960	Thank you. Here, I was going to suggest we wait for the minister, but it's a good thing he came. I think it's important what we have to say, and I think there's been a debate today about one piece very seriously and constructively, but then it just came out because of clearly increased political tensions. First, I want to make a political finding and I think it is very important at this point, simply because of the way this debate is being held and that it has entered parliament. We do not view this as proposals or as the primary responsibility of Minister Dinkic, or the president of a ruling coalition. For us, so I will speak in this debate, this law of Dacic, Vukic and Dinkic and any attempt to avoid responsibility for, in our opinion, the absolute bad consequences that will take place by passing this law. Simply, we, hopefully, will do everything we can to prevent the rest of the opposition's parliamentary groups. Let's start with another political finding that I think is also important, which is that we can also agree with the Ministry of Finance, with their report from ten days ago, with recommendations or opinions or an analysis of the fiscal council, with the opinion of most opposition MPs, but what's the problem, is that we obviously see different ways to respond to it right now. So I'm going to try to illustrate how we see these amendments to the law and I'm sure they won't be much different, as well as many political problems. First, I think these measures are insufficient and that is absolutely the first finding. Secondly, they've been brought in, as long as you've prepared it before, April 1st. You mentioned that as the date since they were published. They're done in a hurry and they'll only give short-term results. What you promised or said, not to speak in those terms, that this should follow another part of the reform, and as far as the government is concerned, we don't have it in front of us. Now we can only talk about it based on some of your suggestions or what you're saying, but it just doesn't exist. The reason we have more doubts is that, if I am not mistaken, the ministry has announced that, first of all, it will not go on to change the budget, but that these savings will be made possible by changes to the Ministry of Finance itself, which will give some quota to the ministries, so that later, to insist, first and foremost, the Fiscal Council, it will change the decision and that it will go to budget rebalancing. It's possible, but of course it has to be. What's important from that haste, out of that urgency as you entered the Assembly, I think that's the greatest indicator of how much the situation is, I can't say both catastrophic, not like this, or like this, but burning and obviously to the Ministry of Finance surprisingly. I really can't agree with that. We also had a debate here on the increase in value added tax, if I'm not mistaken, in September or October of last year. We considered these measures necessary, I can't say justifiable. That's when we asked you to increase VAT followed by a tax reduction, if you remember, because it's just normal. It's no genius thing. It's simple, that's how the measure, among other things, is imagined. In the countries where it was conducted, it was implemented, because it was somehow meant to ensure that prices did not rise. Today, the finance ministry comes or the Serbian government says it is surprised by the decline in trade traffic. I don't understand how you can be surprised? I'll remind you that in this room there are increased excise duties on tobacco outside the regular or planned increase of excise duties on tobacco. I can't even remember when it was, but let's say November. That's when we said in the debate that it would lead to the emergence of a gray market. It was then one of the arguments, not to work outside the planned, or total regional increase in the price of cigarettes. Then, among other things, we were accused of lobbying for tobacco producers. Well, it's not like that. If in Macedonia tobacco or cigarettes are a certain brand cheaper, of course people will bring these cheaper cigarettes and sell in their environment. These people aren't criminals. They just don't have any money. For them, these differences are significant. So, the process of growing excise duties on tobacco to the growth of someone who exists in the EU, it must be synchronised with countries in the environment, because we are not talking about a large organised cigarette smuggling, but we are talking about people living in the border area, who can certainly bring one part. Today, it's the same thing that happens to a cut-up tobacco. It's not a surprise. It's simple, there's a difference. If we agree on all of this, this is exactly where I would like to point out what is the key difference in view of the solution to the current situation on us and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, in our opinion, you can't take as much as you think you can from the people of Serbia. Simply, that resource is limited. People in Serbia don't have money, they're tired. There's been a crisis in this country for 23 years. The money's gone. Of course the property tax doesn't raise the value of the tax to this extent that you said, but the new bill abolishes depreciation. Taxes on people living in old apartments will be higher than January 1st. He'll be significantly bigger. These old apartments are not lived by Miskovici, but by some citizens, most of whom have no job or proportionally, and if there is, the salary is low. If he's been a pensioner and lives in an apartment for 50 years, if you cancel the tax-reduced depreciation, so how are these people going to pay you that tax? How? In what way will two 80-year-old pensioners living somewhere on the lower Dorcol, in a 50-year-old building that paid 3,000 dinars, and now have to pay 15,000-18,000 dinars? How? Where did they get it? Believe me, they won't pay. Don't tell me there's not enough revenue in the period that's going on. We tell you this day, no revenue will be earned. This isn't about criminals. It's about people who don't have money. And you and the Fiscal Council, that's where you let us disagree with the Fiscal Council, you called this tax reduction on redundancies in the economy. That just sounds paradoxical because on the average gross salary of March, which was 57,628 dinars, when you calculate the untaxed part of the profit, when you add 2% to the PIO that is introduced and subtract 2% for the profit tax, the savings are 46 dinars per worker. We really can't call that tax-delivery business. If the company has 10 or 20 employees, since you were talking about entrepreneurs, about small and medium-sized enterprises, what is it? That's 800 dinars a month. Well, no one's going to fail or succeed for that 800 dinar. There's no change in that. It's obviously a structural change in income that the Ministry wants to do, and that, from our point of view, may not be problematic. Of course property taxes in this country have been underestimated, but they are not underestimated because someone is not going to charge, but because this country is poor and poor. She's not pathetic about the last government, she's miserable about the 1990s. Look and don't keep it quiet. This country collapsed between 1990 and 2000. From 2000 to today, it goes forward, perhaps worse or slower, but don't replace the thesis. In those apartments, which are now expected to get something, people who have money don't live to pay for it. They are paying for all the successful and unsuccessful reforms in this country 23rd year in a row. It's just not fair to rely on them. If you're bothered by rich people, make rich people pay. It simply can't be like a carpet spread out and wait for something to happen, among other things, and because something like that is not rational to expect. Like we said, don't raise the VAT, don't raise your excises like that. People will stop buying. I don't want to defend anyone, but you said today, not everyone can be an entrepreneur. Right? Not everyone's an entrepreneur? You know what, so not everyone's for the minister or the official. This government shows every day that anyone can be both a minister and a official. If you want only one who is a talented entrepreneur that only he performs entrepreneurship, then start from your government and from the public enterprises. It's a long point of our disagreement. Together we adopted the Law on Public Enterprises. There are 716 in this country. It's our biggest grudge to this government. Your government has promised to reform this sector. What is the view of these reforms? You gave one seat in the Assembly in committees to elect a director of public enterprises. Who did you choose in that place? Chief of Cabin Alexander Vukic. This man has been elected here in the Serbian Parliament as someone who needs to control the government. I don't know a man, and I don't know who he is, but it's just not normal that there was no other economist in this country who could somehow control the government on behalf of the opposition. There's no control. All that's going on is the continuation of the same system that has existed in this country for twenty years – the government is seen as prey, any possible reform is avoided. What's the problem today is that even though we sold everything in privatisation, we didn't use that money to implement structural reforms. If after that we were in charge, we didn't use that money for structural reforms either. Well, there's no tax on property either, believe me, but what's different is that today these structural reforms have to be implemented. If you are seeking consensus with the opposition's representatives on this, first, set goals and what we are seeking as a country. I agree that this should not be a place of political bickering, but only if we all want a free market legally arranged in the way EU countries are arranged. If we don't want that, no consensus, no consensus is possible. So, as a first step in this, laws cannot be passed, for example, Tuesday night, to be on Wednesday's agenda. That's not European. You said the property tax issue was a matter for local mayors or local self-governments to save or not. Not to enter into the value of that tax at all and whether those estimates are correct or not. Time will show. Apparently, the finance ministry thought of it as some kind of substitute to local self-government when they lose income from profit tax. So this must be some kind of value. It is, among other things, presented in the light of the law. My question is this - how is it possible for the Tax on Profits to come into force immediately, and the Property Tax Act on 1 January next year? Who's gonna cover a seven-month hole? So, the municipalities will stop having revenues the day after tomorrow, when we adopt this law, and some of the new ones that are replaced as some kind of substitute of that loss, that hole, can only be realised on 1 January 2014, depending on whether or not they will. What about all the projects in Serbia that local self-government started? How can you give someone a budget in January one and tell them there's no more money on June 1st? At the same time, in terms of the payment limit, we support it, but how is it going to come out without any new chaos? I just don't think that's possible. I don't see a rational solution. It doesn't matter what the difference is, let's make 100 dinars, that difference will exist from next week. Is that what you're talking about in this House? I don't care if it's Gilas or not. And you advances, enough about it more. You've been in power for a year. The explanation that DS was doing something wrong is no longer an excuse for you. Criticize, I don't care, but don't use it. If someone killed a man, it doesn't give someone else the right to go on killing. If we've all agreed that it's bad and in the last session we've come together about the fact that without a public debate we don't need laws to be adopted, what happened today that you changed that? What's that change? That it's you and not them now? It's the same for us. I don't care about Wolfie and Gilas. The last question -- if Serbia hasn't bought planes for 30 years, as we can see, does it have to buy them today? No matter how much they cost, I don't care, some other things in life make me happy and satisfied, but how we might have decided today, in this financial situation, that we need some 10 MiGs, H-800, etc., and everyone here today is saying we don't have any money. How is that possible? If we haven't bought them in 30 years, I guess it's because they're not cheap. I doubt there was a secretary of defense who didn't want to have any new planes. I guess everybody wanted to have them. What's the difference between today and what's the price? How much is it compared to these 46 dinar redundancies in the economy per employee? We expect those answers, and we actually know them. We also know what's being paid to buy those planes. And that's the political price. But as long as political mistakes are paid for by the citizens of Serbia, there will be no results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16961	Thank you. Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16962	Just to be clear, about the property tax. Please read the explanation a little more carefully. It is clear in its explanation that these changes in the property tax are being introduced in order to compensate for the elimination of compensation for the use of construction land, not these changes in the rate of salary tax. So that's what it says, and that was the intention. Under the Law on Planning and Construction, the fee for the use of construction land from 1 January ceases to be charged and therefore enters into force and this change in property tax as of 1 January. So, let me get this straight. In this way, legal entities will no longer pay this fee for the use of construction land, but will therefore pay a property tax on fair market value. So they're going to pay more property tax than they pay today, because they're paying it bookkeeping today, but that's why they won't pay this fee for using construction land. As for the abolition of depreciation, it was explicit on the proposal of the Fiscal Council because we were the first version of the law that we published on the site a month ago without that provision. Why? Because it's going in a new way of taxing property. By 30 November of this year, all local self-governments are obliged to publish the average market prices in a given part, the city zone and are then assumed to include the average market price in themselves and depreciation. Simply, if the level of traffic was on one level, he assumes that old buildings are changing at a lower price, new buildings at a higher price. In addition, local self-government can intervene and the coefficient system can exploit if a problem occurs somewhere in case there is a new building next to an old building, and then the average market price can deviate, but the coefficient system can exploit it. Therefore, the property tax has not been changed to compensate local self-government for the loss of salary tax. The idea is that what local self-governments lose to pay taxes, to save it, because of fiscal consolidation. Just like the Republic will save. No, if it was an idea, just before one MP, who said -- it's going to raise 600% of the property tax to make up for everything they lose from pay taxes, so they calculated it takes so much to put it in. No, it wasn't an idea. The idea is not to spend it. To save himself. You said the measurements were done in a hurry. It's not true for the next reason. Here's Milica Bisic who led the team and was born from the new year. So, a few months. What exactly is it? We wanted to do exactly what you suggested in the debate, that is, to go only to lower the profit tax rate and increase the non-taxable share of the salary, but when we saw in the first four months the data on minor inflows in the budget, we decided to amend the Law on Contribution and increase the rate of contribution by 2%. It's true and there's no reason to hide it. My idea was to unload the economy more than these four billion dinars. It's not possible in these conditions. We had to go to compensation to cut the expenditures of the PIO Fund by the end of this year by about 12 billion dinars. That is why it goes according to the emergency procedure to take effect the June 1st provision, as it carries two billion dinars each month to save the republican budget on behalf of it. Will local self-government have to rebalance? They'll have to. It will have to be done by the Republic Government. Was it possible to predict all this? You can say it is, but the fact in all other countries is saying it's not even a little simple. If you look at the latest published estimates of GDP movements, budget deficits, unemployment, in EU countries, it is drastically different than the estimates of three months ago. Estimates in such difficult times, unfortunately, change very often. There is no sin in these times of severe crisis to miss in judgment. It's important to react on time. There is what the Fiscal Council said very important, that what could not have been predicted before eight or when the budget was made, in September or October when it was adopted by the government, that it could not have been predicted to react now and that the deficit would not be allowed to go to some zones later that would be difficult to return. I also have the latest report by the European Commission, their finance department, growth rates and budget deficits in EU countries had nothing to do with what was published three months ago. Everything's getting worse. Russia has a legal obligation to work twice a year on rebalancing. They work once in the spring of May, the second time in the fall, and it's in their law. Since they've given up, every year they've done rebalancing, it's a lot of criticism, but they have it as a legal obligation. Maybe it's good for Serbia, too. To be in the assembly often, because it is not easy, easy to predict what happens when not everything depends on the government, especially small countries like Serbia. I have to tell you that both the Fiscal Council and the IMF had a different forecast of VAT movement. In some other incomes, they previously considered there to be a smaller achievement, such as profit tax or non-tax revenues, but VAT was all surprised by both the Fiscal Council and the IMF, because the decline in trade traffic is not just due to population standards. It's much deeper than what's a problem with the purchasing power of the population, and it's obviously the result of a gray economy, which we've now identified as one of the factors that contributed to that fall. When you look at trade traffic, for example, regular or registered large chains, it has grown in the first four months, which means that trade in trade or goods has fallen widely, which is the most common case, or it has grown completely black trade, which is probably a fact, because they told me both in Subotica and Pancheva and in other cities that the fleas there have never been in more activity and it is clear that there is a lot of goods that come in without customs and tax. We've got smuggling in the country. Of course, it's not the opposition's problem, it's our problem, and it's our responsibility to stop it. I said we'd work on it. I'm just trying to be realistic about what this is about. As far as excise duties are concerned, the excise duties were lower than in the surrounding countries. We're about even now. It's not the reason he's grown up smuggling cut tobacco. So, as far as cigarettes go, the excise charge goes right. The problem is that because of the lower standard, a part of the population went to cut tobacco and we have a smuggling of cut tobacco, which is not bought by legal cut tobacco, and it will not be easy to keep in check, given that the organization is quite depreciated, and there we also need the help of other services to keep things under control. What it is is the thing where I absolutely agree with you is that the measures are insufficient. Nor did I say this would be enough. In the opening statement, I said this was just part of a package that the government would adopt. This effect on spending cuts by the end of the year is 12 billion dinars. It is absolutely not enough to reduce the budget deficit to the frameworks recommended by the Fiscal Council. We have suggested that another 20 billion dinars be reduced at the discretionary expenditures of the republican ministries. We're probably going to have to go even more than that in the rebalancing that I said we were doing in early September, and after this recommendation from the Fiscal Council, I'm going to talk to our government partners about eventually doing it in the next month and a half, because we've definitely already prepared a lot of it and there's no reason not to formalize it through rebalancing, even though we've already set out to save on quotas. The property tax as compensation for the elimination of the city building land fee does not cover buildings. That's what my colleagues said. It's very important. Plus, farmers are cut off tax on catastrian income. Here's the question of what local self-government should do. The fact is that it is more comfortable to generate revenue based on something that is common incomes of the Republic and of the locals, because there is no great responsibility or thinking. I'll give you another example. I've set an example for the Yugoslav Hotel. It's just amazing that, come on, I'll talk about Belgrade, why, for example, This location where the former Beko factory can't get an investor to build hotels and shopping malls, the Greek company Lamda, for five, six years, why can't Yugoslavia get investors? Why don't you take the money? We're not talking about some old lady from Old Town, we're talking about land in Old Town that stands untapped. Why? Maybe for a while, the future will give an answer why investors don't give permission. Is there money to be asked for? Is there anything else? Time will tell. The fact is that everyone can in their own backyard and we in the Republic and mayors in the bar do a lot to make things better, even though the situation is difficult in all countries. It's not easy to bring investors. We're trying, I don't know, if someone resents us for, apart from Germany, Italy and the traditional countries with which we have good co-operation in attracting investors, we're turning east, including Russia, Azerbaijan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, Turkey, I don't think that this grudge should be in place for the reason why we have to bring investors with money today and who can invest in Serbia to hire people. I wish we had more investors like "Fiat." I've said it many times. Someone said -- there's only one factory that's based on everything. It's not true, because we have over 150 car industry companies and 20% of total exports go from the automotive industry. I agree and share your concerns that this will not be enough. But you don't need to give false information, I don't think it's you right now, that this will go down citizens' backs. Here you will see the ability of both us in the Republic Government and those who run local authorities to adapt to the conditions of the crisis and to save on things that are not necessary and to encourage things that mean employment and investment. It's easy for everyone when it's not a crisis. Now it is a crisis, it takes a long time, who knows how long it will last, because while there is no recovery in the Eurozone, there is no way that we are making significant progress. In these conditions, costs must be adjusted to lower. When the take-off takes off, there's 80 percent of the profit tax left to the municipalities. If employment is increased in the future, it is clear that there will be greater revenues, above all, of local self-government. In that sense, all the rules of fiscal decentralisation, which I stood for, remain, but the fact is that they only result if it's good for the whole state. It can't be good for the bar if it's a bad republic. We're one country. When there's a crisis, we all have to save.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16963	The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, a replica of Mr Andric's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16964	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the country is in a crisis both politically and economically, is the best position of the MP in the opposition. You can criticise whatever you want and say – what we care about the conflict between SNS and DS, between Vukic and Gilas, what we have with Dragan Gilas, etc. It's not like that. My colleague Zoran Babic said the public debt of Belgrade in 2008 was 50m euros, today is 900m euros, or, let me say, it's about 3%, slightly less than 3% of Serbia's GDP. The debt came as the LDP participated in the Belgrade City government. As the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said in this room – each of us should carry his cross. That's how you wear yours, don't throw it away. When that famous story about those planes, we've already touched that one, I said, it's the easiest thing to criticise, should I ask if any other pilots should be killed? How many have died in the last few years that have not been wartime? Do you know of the international contracts and obligations that the Republic of Serbia may have to fly civilian planes? We can choose whether we want to have a certain part of the Air Force that will be functional or we can pay for our sky to be protected by another country, and we are on the verge of not having such operational aviation. (President: Time. ) So it's not just a political goal, it's something that's actually being criticized in some true sense, even though it's for no reason, and Mr. Collar, who was a minister and who's throwing me a topic, this is a replica, so learn a little bit about this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16965	National MP Ivan Andric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16966	Two replicas, one minister, one on this, when you gave the word like that. First Minister. I'm talking about different things, only this politically deeply I believe that today in Serbia, a country whose main tools will be in the hands of police, tax inspectors, military, whatever. That the basic role of the government in society is to create an atmosphere that will bring something and conditions to something happen, in that sense I agree that when it comes to growth and when we have money, it's easy for everyone, and when it's recession, it's not easy for anyone. That's why I said, maybe a little bit incomprehensible and I'll take a risk on myself, but you can call on everyone for savings, but first you have to start saving. The order and why we fought so hard on Wednesday, that's why. To save people, they have to see from the government to save. You can't come up with a plan to save someone else, and say, we're going to bring in a plan to save, and all those who won't save, and we're going to say, the whole debate is being conducted in terms of how more taxes should be charged, which is not disputed. Nothing is disputed – how do we prevent people who are in the area from calling it the grey economy. But not everything. I'm gonna do it again. Not all people are criminals. A lot of them do. They manage as they know and can. Of course, what they're doing is illegal and there's no doubt that the state has to stop them. But first, give a plan to save 30 billion, and then call us, and call from Dragan Gilas to Sudotica, each one according to local self-government to save. (President: Time. So far, it's just demagogy. If I may, I'd like a replica of Mr. Arsic now, I'll be very brief. (President: We do not have that custom, Mr. Andric, since the Rules of Procedure predicts that the replica can last for the longest two minutes. How can I respond in two minutes? All right, I'll call article 107. Rules of Procedure – wrong interpretation. (President: All right, call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. (President: Here you go, time begins. Just show up one more time. Thank you. It can always be more complicated. I have no intention of pummeling with you and getting into it, because I think it's ruining a picture that this conversation, at least at some point, made it very serious. Before you resent us participating in power with Gilas, look around you like this. All your coalition partners have been and participated in this government. Every single one, and many now participate. Just before you throw yourself at someone, look at yourself first. When I said, I mean, I don't slow down and I don't want to, because I think it's really demagogue that someone wants to kill some pilots, it's really not like that, I just asked, is this the time? I had no doubt that he was Sutanovac, or that Boris Tadic, who was before him, and I don't remember who the ministers were anymore, that they all wanted what Mr. Vukic wanted, but he certainly has some reason why it wasn't done. You just said it was the last moment. All right, we can appreciate that. That's not how it was presented. It's really not like that. On the same day, we had on the news that we decided to buy planes and assess the Fiscal Council on the country's catastrophic and major economic situation. It's, in the end, untasteful that it happens on the same day. There really are some things we can skip – from a helicopter ride of functioners and boasting about it in "Evening News" and "Today". Read it before you speak to us and ask for our guilt. I'm telling you one more time, I really don't mind. I just think that kind of discussion, in fact, puts into another plan arguments that are much more important. After all, your government came in this morning and invited us to a consensus.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16967	Thank you. Mr. Andric, you realize I don't need to give you an explanation since you used this time as a replica. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16968	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Minister Dinkic, distinguished representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a set of tax laws and whenever it comes to taxes, our obligation is even greater and with greater attention and responsibility we need to approach the examination and interpretation of these laws. At the very beginning, I want to point out one fact that has been very useful in today's debate, but also in previous years, starting there since 2008. The fact is that today, the world still has a major economic crisis. I do not express this fact as something called justification, nor excuse, but simply as one good basis for law-making, such as a set of tax laws we're talking about today. The economic crisis itself, economic analysts say, is overcoming its frameworks and is now becoming something called a change in the world's economic order. All this suggests that all European countries and those countries that are richer today than our country are looking for the best solutions to find a way out of this crisis. If they find the best way out, I'm not sure. Certainly, all these countries, starting with Spain, Italy, Portugal, about Greece not to speak, and even the strongest economies of Europe such as France and Germany, are today seeking salvation in the change of the tax system. It's hard to find the best tax solution today to fill the budget. Just filling the budget of all these countries that I've been talking about, and also our country which is one today, which I don't say, of the poorer countries in Europe, is very difficult and certainly the result of reduced economic activity, reduced employment and, of course, in Serbia today, we have such data as we have. The other fact that I want to point out today is the fact, without wanting to praise the government in which our party URS participates, is that this government has courage. This government has the courage to face the truth and face all those difficult not only long-term but decades of problems that have been pushed under the carpet for years. This government has looked into Kosovo and Metohija's problem in the eyes. This government has looked at the problem of fighting corruption and organised crime in the eyes, faced decisively, and today we have one sighting of the truth in the eyes of the Serbian economy. I am very happy with this approach, and I must say that I am pleased with the discussions that have been conducted today. Except for some bounces, they were mostly professional discussions, well-intentioned criticisms, and I'm sure this kind of discussion will bear fruit and give a good result, a good set of tax laws. As for the tax laws themselves, and I have to say at the beginning that it is very important for us that this set of tax laws was supported by the Fiscal Council, and in a few sentences we can say that this set of tax laws brings... If you can, Mrs. Kovac, warn your colleagues. (President: Please, just a little quieter, so we can hear Mr. Mitrovica.) ) This set of tax laws leads to a much fairer tax system, and I wouldn't say it taxes the rich. Today in Serbia, we don't need anyone to have anything against the rich. The country of Serbia should cultivate rich people, but those who at the moment have a little more money should today be taxed in a way that the money is poured aside by those who are poorer today. It is this set of laws today that provides and offers that one fairer note, one fairer line. The second fact and other significant item of this tax set itself is to help disbursement businesses, especially entrepreneurs and small businesses. I'm sure there's no one in this room or in this country who'll be against this. We all understand that today we have to help small and medium-sized enterprises, we have to help the economy, we have to relieve it wherever possible, and not only financially, I would disagree with those colleagues who wanted to minimise this financial discharge, but we can also help these tax sets entrepreneurs, and in this administrative sense, where they are relieved of unnecessary barriers, administrative procedures. Of course, this set of laws is in line with entrepreneurs and that they have given their consent to it and that it is the result of these agreements with entrepreneurs. The result of this set of laws is also a more stable funding of the pension fund, a greater security for pensioners, with the pension fund more at an annual level of about 26 billion dinars. Certainly, in a very difficult crisis, we must share the burden of this crisis and first help those social categories that are not ready today to earn and provide themselves with at least those basic conditions for life. Is there more important and greater obligations for us younger ones to help those people who built this country, who are now at some age when they can't work anymore? Of course, we support filling the pension fund and creating greater stability and security of that fund. However, there has been a lot of talk in this parliament today about depriving funds from local self-government. It is true that this set of laws in one part, first by cutting taxes from 12 to 10%, as well as by increasing the untaxed part from 8,500 to 11,000, local self-government will get a little less money than was foreseen by the 2011 Law on the financing of local self-government. For the sake of the truth and for the sake of our citizens who listen to this transmission and who will read these laws, it is important to say that the Law on the financing of local self-government does not change in any member and that the provision of 80% of the taxes on employees in municipalities and cities remains with municipalities and cities. Of course, it will be reduced in that part where the even republic, province and local self-government must bear the burden of this crisis. I was also an MP in the previous term and in 2011, some MPs, my distinguished colleagues who today express a high degree of concern for local self-government were against the adoption of the Law on the financing of local self-government, and it is extremely hypocritical that today they express a huge concern that something would be denied by local self-government, and in 2011, they were against the law. I come from the Zlatibor County from Užica and in 2011, and I am proud to say, together with another 10,000 Užičana we have managed to fight to adopt this law in this Assembly, of course with our distinguished colleagues from other then ruling parties. Today when I speak to representatives of local self-government from the Zlatibor County, from other municipalities, I feel that the representatives of these local self-government are aware and that they understand that the burden of this crisis must all be equally borne. What else does it matter to say? It is important to say that this reduction does not cover all municipalities and cities alike. There are several municipalities and cities that are conditionally richer. The smaller ones that don't depend on the profit tax have fewer reductions. I can't say I'm happy about it, but in this part of it, there's a way of being equal to municipalities and towns that are less developed at this point. What else is one of the truths that we finally have to face? We must finally face the truth that our local self-governments do not function properly and that we have not yet started or touched the story of a serious reform of local self-government. Unfortunately, some local self-governments that have received significant funds from the 2011 Law on the financing of local self-government have not spent in the best possible way. They didn't even invest a single dollar in investments or something that would attract investors and allow them to hire new people. I'm going to give a concrete example, not to criticise the previous leadership of the city I come from, Uzica. The example concerns the deep regional dump in Uzic, which has invested more than 15m euros so far. More than 70 people were employed in the dump last year and in order to function today, the dump requires subsidies from the town of Užica, Čačka and the other seven municipalities of Zlatibor and Moraviga County. Not only is the regional dump not making profit, as is the case around the world, but it is simply a burden to local self-government. I say once again that I am not saying this because of criticism, but a large number of regional local companies today in Serbia are a burden to budgets. In that part, we need to do a lot more to reform. I am sure that today when this crisis is in place both with us and with the representatives of local self-government is certainly much greater and must finally start reforming local self-government. When I talk to citizens what they think about this tax system, what about a set of tax laws, I didn't get the impression for a moment that in Serbia live people who aren't ready to pay taxes. People don't at any time argue that the state has to pay taxes, but there's a lot of disfavor in people – why do they have to pay for hoaxes, robberies and everything that happened in the previous period in this country and what finally came under the threat of justice? I'm not going to mention the Agrobank or the Vojvodina Development Bank now. I will not mention a robbery at the Ministry of Agriculture where the minister from a political party with speculators sold artificial fertilizer, nor will I mention a minister from a political party who took a commission to lay down an optical cable. I'm not interested in mentioning the mayor of a city where the earthquake buried the citizens and he robbed them at that time. I want these negative phenomena to be mentioned in the sense that this money is missing from the citizens of Serbia today. I agree with distinguished colleagues who said that the prosecution, the police and all the authorities must bring justice to the people of the Development Bank, and even the one who raised the price of the bridge on Ada. I don't know who that is, but someone's increased. Guys, today we're missing that money in the RS budget and we're doing what we're doing today. Is this the best, do we want this with all our heart? Of course not, but we have to because someone robbed Serbia in the previous period. Serbian citizens resent why they have to pay for someone's robbery. At the very end, aware of the difficult situation, the very difficult economic crisis, aware that this is just the beginning, that this is just part of the package, we support this set of laws from the URS. We are aware that there are many challenges ahead of this government in the coming period. We expect this government to have courage, courage and to face everything it expects in the coming period. You'll have our support. The message I clearly want to send today from this pay phone to the Serbian citizens is the following – the URS does not give up decentralisation and fighting for the locals. We continue with the same measure. We are aware that today the financial situation requires us to do what we do, but in the next period through the reform of local self-government, we will make decentralisation make the citizens of Serbia live much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16970	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16971	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dinkic, I'm a lawyer, you're an expert in finance, I really have no intention of breaking up with you about numbers, about percentages, about billions. You've been Minister for ten years. You probably do this job every day for ten hours, so not just because of the short time we had to prepare for these laws, I'm sure you know the good stuff we're talking about today. I am also sure that you would probably do better the job of Mr. Cvetkovic's Finance Minister who did so in the previous government, but you and your party voted to do so, to be prime minister and to be finance minister. You inherited one difficult situation from the previous minister, and you inherited from yourself to run the economy. The problem is that today there has been a lot of talk about how the previous government has entrusted an excessive state to Serbia, and we have talked about it as a parliamentary group of DSS for four years in this parliament, but the problem is that most of these governments are made by the same people, or the same parties that are in the current government. I can kind of understand the program that we're in debt now to part with it, but it's not clear to me if we're doing this how public debt doesn't shrink in this country. I truly understood these laws as your concern for all Serbian citizens. Perhaps they will produce the results that you spoke of today, and perhaps their influence will be completely negligible, or equal to the influence that the wind has on the corner of the flag. Perhaps this money, which you are trying to introduce in this way into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, will make it better for citizens, but what is the basic objection of the DSS is -- how is this money spent? We said, "The incomes will not be realised at this height, as you predicted them, and all the means will surely be spent." Is the people in the state of Serbia better alive, we can talk about it, but I'm sure there's no big progress. One colleague said the other day - our salaries are African, and our prices are galactic, and that's a fact that we all have to agree on. Has the non-domestic availability of public finances been stopped? A lot of this has been said about us today from the DSS, really, the essence of these legal changes and all the next ones you're planning, which you've announced here, is in spending budget money. Is it normal for the state to provide guarantees for some public enterprises that are terrible losers? Yeah, and they cut their salaries at the Serbians? What about the salaries in the state administration and what about the pensions? Your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Krkobiæ said – if the salaries are frozen, it will be a genocide for pensioners. When the crisis began, you came out with a proposal to limit the salaries of the director, the officials. If it was carried out in action, I'm really not sure. It is not normal for public companies directors to have two, three or four times the salary of the president of the state. Is it normal for the EPS to pay 13 employees' salaries? You often say that party leaders need to take responsibility, you're pushing for the department, but in part it hasn't shown up yet. I can understand, you will, but coalition partners won't let you do it. What does it mean when a party takes responsibility for a public enterprise in this country, say, a Galenic? Then we see from the media that there have been various abuses. Responsibilities afterwards mean that the judiciary does its job, but responsibility implies that the party can no longer assume responsibility to run public enterprises in this country. Does this party have a director in other public enterprises? There is, of course. The parties respond to the citizens. You, Mr. Dinkic, have stated that this should be done by the police, the D.A.'s office and the judiciary. I think that should be done by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Does that mean, if you're part of the team, if you're the Minister of Government, you're not responsible for the work of other ministers? If, God forbid, destroy education, you say – no, I have nothing to do with it, I did not participate, it is Minister Obradovic, who is currently Minister of Education. Unlike some public companies, there are also those companies that are fighting on the market, such as Telecom, which the previous government tried to sell for nothing. Fortunately, it was prevented, primarily by the DSS initiative. Why do monopolies, like EPS, have more salaries than people in the state administration? In this assembly you have passed a Law on Public Procurement that was meant to allow for greater control of financial resources, greater savings, and that is probably good, but the first step has shown that healthcare, first of all, has encountered huge problems due to the adoption of the law. We spoke here today about the budget reserve. You have a discretionary right to have funds with budget reserves. Why do some cities, like Jagodina, have free transportation and some other municipalities don't? Why are only individual mayors successful, when so many people who do this job honestly cannot prove themselves on the ground because they do not have the help of the state, because they are not from your party or party currently in power? The essence of today's debates and these laws and the entire tax reform that you've been trying to implement since you took over this country's finances should be to extract money from the public sector. There was talk today about the origin of the property. I don't know what's waiting for that law, but I think it can prevent significant abuses that work. If Serbia has its tycoons, and there are them, so we don't lie, did they show their profits? Did they pay their taxes? Because it seems funny to me when the Anti-Corruption Agency reports that someone has a used car, sleeps on their aunt's couch, and do you really believe in that kind of application? I don't believe it either, I'm sure neither are you. I'm afraid with this package of tax laws, you will make a huge failure that will be paid by all citizens of Serbia, as has happened with the economic ambassador. We never received a report on how much their effects, how much it cost, what benefit Serbian citizens had from all this. That's the money that came from the budget. These are money provided by also Serbian citizens and paid through this or that kind of tax. Someone doesn't, unfortunately, in this country for milk, someone doesn't have drugs, someone can't buy a new shoe child, but it doesn't matter, Serbia has money to finance some economic ambassadors. What happened to the significant funds that were disbursed because of the previous government's irresponsibility regarding judicial reform? We've talked about this in this House for years. Are the savings made? No, they're not. Are people back at work? Yes, and they were supposed to be returned. Are there more than there were before the reform? Of course there are. It all has to be paid out of the budget. And these funds that you collect in this way will be used in one piece for all of it. When we talk about taxes, we really have to look at a whole picture, we have to think about everything, we have to look ahead, and we're not just talking here to shoot some of the time that we have as a parliamentary group, to take pictures on TV, but really to seriously look at and consider the problem that's ahead of us. I believe that all the MPs who spoke today take care of the citizens of Serbia and that their funds will be spent and that this country will be better tomorrow. I don't like to dream. Some in this government dream of a water road from Belgrade to the Aegean. Maybe it's a good project, but I think it's hard to implement right now. It may be better to invest certain funds in agriculture, invest in watering the land, not those plots, and those properties that the sheik from Emirat will buy, but cover the whole country and re-netify the irrigation system. A few years ago, we had the cost of drought and damage estimated at two billion euros. That's the amount that's enough to build a irrigation system across the country. We were talking about Fiat. Okay, that's one factory, maybe there's a few more, but we have one factory that can bring huge income to this country every year, which is agriculture. There are increased investments in agriculture, but I'm sure they're not enough. Indeed, this practice that from government to government changes completely the concept and approach to very important problems, it is not clear to me. During the government of Mr. Kostunica, where you are rated as one of the best ministers, a project was launched, among other things, about irrigating the dam. I'm not interested in gondola on the bathroom. I'm interested in a dam that will ensure that southern Serbia and the City of Nis have water supply, have flood defenses, have everything that the dam was supposed to provide to that end of Serbia, and then it was suspended in the previous government. You have now made a decision, that is, this government, to continue the project. We're talking about the defense, we're not talking about some irrelevant stuff. I understand your desire to raise the IT sector in Serbia, but are we very competitive in that area with the United States, with China, with India and with some other countries? We have raspberries, we have cherry, we have people who, when they're born age, can make huge incomes based on it and the state can collect taxes from them. But in those years when they don't have the opportunity to do it, because of drought, because of the city, because of the various circumstances they can't influence, let's help them and use these resources for it. I'd really like to hear, tell me honestly, is it normal for us to adopt this kind of tax code package? These are laws that make one government either fall or win national elections. In every country in all elections, first of all, citizens see how much it will cost them in the next period. I can understand the need for urgency, but by reading the law, some provisions of this law, for example about property, come into force on 1 January 2014, and some in 2016. Why didn't you leave us and the professional public a little more time to talk about this seriously? The DSS MPs are opposition MPs, but they are citizens of this country who go to the streets every day, go to the market, talk to their neighbours and share the fate of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When you represented your first book here, it was the 2013 budget, I said I wanted you to be the best minister in the government, that this government has a surplus as it was in the government run by Vojislav Kostunica, but obviously it won't happen. Neither will your 3.5% budget deficit projection come true, as we have seen what the IMF predicts and what projections are for the Republic of Serbia. Why do we not have the courage to rely on ourselves, to use Serbia's potential and thus try to improve the standard of living for all citizens? We'll still be seeing each other, probably in a month, a month and a half, when you come to this Parliament with a budget rebalance proposal, but it'll be easy for us to talk in that debate, just read the stenograms from the adoption of the budget and from today's session, and you'll see that we'll be right again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16972	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16973	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposal of these six tax laws has been laid out on behalf of the group by our colleague Zoran Kasalovic, and I will make my contribution to the debate, looking at it in a few other ways. It was noticeable that my colleague Kasalovic had put the focus on combating the gray economy and observed through it the proposal of these tax laws, how much it would contribute to reducing it, because we believe that this is a very important issue, one of the largest areas where new budget funds can be created. When it comes to the budget, the economic situation and the financial situation, you yourself, Mr. Minister, announced next Thursday that we should discuss this in more detail, as well as the budget rebalance. I just want to say one sentence, repeat the sentence with which I finished the presentation when the budget was on the agenda. The government has shown courage, Mr. Minister, to project the budget in this way, given the state in which this country is located. I asked him to show responsibility for budget implementation, to call on him every day, to monitor the implementation of the budget, and to react immediately. What do I mean? I want to support you in that. Why? It's no big deal not to make a budget the way it's supposed to be. It's no big deal to make a rebalance, two rebalances. What's so terrible? It's terrible if we don't see it coming, and it's even scarier if we see it, and we don't take measures. That's why I want to ask you and support you to continue the same way you've been making this budget. I want to give you another warning, which I've given back then, which is that you continue to pay the greatest attention to the economy, production, unloading, stimulating in every way possible. There is no improvement in Serbia without economy, without production, without the one who makes a new value, who makes money, who fills the budget. When it's realized, then everything else can be realized. I urge you to continue by having this priority, because without it there is no new money, there is no better budget, there is no new employment, and hiring one man today is the top priority in Serbia. I also want to agree with my colleague from the SDPS, Mrs Savic, that in all of these activities that are ahead you insist on social consensus, on social dialogue with the social partners, because all of these measures that are being adopted, all the structural reforms that are necessary to be carried out, we all know that economic and social reform must be done, but I also warn you that you must know that there are neither if they are not socially just. That is why it is necessary to bring all these measures into line with the social partners. When it comes to these tax laws, given that they are the continuation of tax reform and the creation of conditions for financial consolidation, I want to call only on the first of three basic objectives. An increase in the horizontal and vertical fairness of taxation of citizens' income, i.e. the principle that individuals of equal economic power should bear the same tax burden, and that richer individuals pay more taxes. If this is the goal of these tax laws, we will absolutely support and support every tax law that has this for the cause. Our attitude has already been expressed many times and I will repeat it – should give the most to those who have the most, the fewer those who have less, and those who have nothing, the state to them to give. In particular, when it comes to these laws in principle, we will give support. I'm going to stay for a few questions, although I want to point out that when there's a debate in particular, there's plenty of room to consider all the solutions, to clarify or possibly change. When it comes to amending the Income Tax Act, there has been a lot of talk about reducing the rate of income tax from 12 to 10, increasing the non-taxable amount to 11,000, reducing the effective tax rate at a minimum profit of 8.6 to 6.4, and we are giving absolute support there, but we expect this to be just some seed, let the call for further increases in tax progress, to further enhance vertical justice, to take more than those who have more, and than those who have minimally take less. And I also want to point out, parallel to that, the increase in this 2%, when it comes to contributions to pension and disability insurance, that it's actually on the win of the budget, because it's simply financial consolidation, because so much less it's going to have to transfer to the PIO Fund. We don't have any dilemmas here. What we want to warn and say – it is true, most of the funds go to the expense of local self-government. I would instead of each other's accusations, on the one hand of local self-government and on the other hand of the republican government, ask that we seek a solution where a huge difference has really been made in relation to the current situation. Please, Belgrade -- a question of seven billion, if we take nearly two billion more, which is a tax on immovable property being transferred to capital tax, and then the authorities are not the same. These are huge funds, and I demand that he sit down with Belgrade and talk to each other. Let's get this straight, I don't care about Gilas, but I care about Belgrade and the Belgraders. So let's sit down with every municipality where there can be some damage. What I also want to support is the separation of total income based on labour income and capital income from small entrepreneurs. You gave a lot of reasons, he undertakes to pay taxes on contributions to what his personal profit is, it chooses, it's for absolute support, such as increasing the permitted traffic value from three to six. I know there's going to be a lot of controversy here, and I want to be very clear. The narrowing of the scope of the activity, which can be recognised as a flat-rate tax, states there: accounting, accounting, audit, tax advice, advertising and market research, legal, health work. I give full support to that, and I don't see why someone wouldn't pay taxes on real income, which is why I pay taxes on real income. It is not for anyone to pay the tax twice as much as the income they have, but for actual income. And on what income do we want to pay? Please, if that wasn't the case, then they're very disputable increases of this from three to six. A huge number would expand there, those who would use it. What I'd like to keep for a very short while is another tax release and simply warn you. This is the release of up to 5.214 dinars for the payment of health insurance and pension insurance premiums. So far, there has been voluntary insurance and this time a health premium is being introduced, but a total amount of 5.120 remains. It's stimulating for voluntary health insurance, but it's detimulative for pension funds. Why? Why do I think we should look for any better solutions? Because we ourselves know that the pension system is very tense, in a difficult situation, and we need to create conditions for this third voluntary development, we encouraged it to be tax-free and still people still find it difficult to commit to it. This time they're taking part in it together, even though they're not using those 5.120 now, I think the average is about 4400 for everyone. You should just take care of it. What I'm trying to say is, when it comes to this law, which, of course, I don't think you're going to do that, but I'm asking you for a much bigger, braver, more determined fight to collect all obligations. Don't let those two percent of us increase our contributions pay the ones who have paid the bill before, not the ones who haven't paid, so they don't care what it is. Unfortunately, Serbia has developed a culture of non-payments, so as not to pay taxes, contributions, wages, electricity, television, nothing, and we will constantly look for some ways to combine it. Please, you're on your own today, and you have our full support, you have to charge, you have to pay, because then there wouldn't be a need for a pension fund to get this much money out of the budget and not to talk about all the other things. So the salary has to be paid, the contribution has to be paid. In other countries, it's normal for us not to pay. That's where you have to put the dot and stop it. To give my colleagues some time, just one more warning when it comes to property and profit tax. When it comes to profit pores, the increase introduced before the end of the year, I don't think the tax has been used until the end of the year. I think that this should pay more attention, for a simple reason, not only to increase income, but simply to implement politics, but to give more to those who have more, and thus to free less, less, that they can enter into stronger competition. So the one who has the most to give, who has less to give, the one who has nothing to give him the state. I think there's a lot more room here. In the end, we feel that we should go towards increasing the capital tax and reducing the labour tax. When it comes to property tax, one strong, strong support when it comes to it, which is to correct one great injustice and injustice because of the different tax treatment on property owned by natural and legal persons. Why would a person pay at market value and not legal? That's why you have our support here. Otherwise, when it comes to property tax in the face of a person, I mean, and that's what I want to tell you and suggest that there's room for much braver moves. It may not be much of a suspension of the depreciation that has so far been affected, but the fact that it's being watched directly. Please, you have more courage to enter the taxation of assets by force, by value. I don't know why you gave up taxation of property, those who have houses, villas, five, ten, should be taxed severely. Not the one who has a small apartment, lives in it, was born in it, and has nothing else. I think there's room for much stronger, harder, as I'd say attack, in terms of going back to the beginning, to take from those who have the most, less than those who have less, and give to those who have nothing. Thank you very much. Of course we'll support this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16974	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16975	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, from this set of laws you've heard about, a set of tax laws that the DS will not support most of the law relating to property tax on all Serbian citizens. I think we're free to call this law, the law of Serbia's citizens' robbery. So, by this law, no matter what you turn your eyes, Serbian citizens are being robbed, and that's nothing new. Throughout history, Serbia has been burned and destroyed and robbed and you are only one in a row that will rob the country's citizens. I'll explain why. Of course, all citizens in Serbia's territory are being robbed, and most of them are being robbed by those where the URS has not crossed the censorship. So that's Belgrade, you haven't crossed the census most and the property tax affected citizens of Belgrade. It also affects the citizens of Novi Sad where you did not pass the censorship, hits the citizens of Kruševec. So, you're in one perfidious way by changing the way tax on property is being robbed by the citizens. This is not understood by many in this room, and many in this room can't understand it because it's hidden behind the provisions where the tax base takes far more value than it used to be. In doing so, you've lifted the depreciation. I don't know if it's a fiscal council proposal or not. Whoever's proposal is, the proposal is a monster. So it's also worth an old house of 50 and a hundred years old and an apartment in an old house of 50 and a hundred years, as well as this new coin that was built yesterday, either two, three years ago. No word on market value, twice we heard that answer, market value. You'll take the whole end of the average. New apartments were trafficked by about two thousand, three thousand euros, and then on that same basis, you will cut off whoever lives in a house with a flat worth not a thousand and a half euros. Maybe it's in the ideal parts of ownership of the apartment so it can't even sell it. What do you want to do with this law? You want those who have apartments, who have nowhere else to live, who live in those apartments and don't live alone. You know, very well that many Serbian citizens live, so you have three four generations in your apartment. Well, they don't all live in the same apartment because they don't pay taxes, they don't have the money to buy another apartment. The same Serbian citizens have no money to pay for electricity, no money to pay for an info apartment, and now you impose new taxes on them. Are you aware of the land you live in? Do you really think citizens can pay more taxes in addition to these costs by 50%, higher taxes and 100% than they've paid so far? Obviously you didn't, because the projections that were done, they weren't made by the DS, they were made by the income management, they speak very precisely about increasing the taxes on the apartment, on the Sava Veneto, to 868%. It's increasing in Old Town by 622%, increasing in Zemun field by 384%. Did you go to an election campaign in Zemun by paying 384% more taxes on the apartment? People don't think that's normal. It's really not normal. Please try to adopt some amendments to correct that. It's not normal for us to get into a situation, whatever the tax is, to pay eight or nine times as much. I don't know how they don't understand that. Well, how will pensioners pay an annual tax of 60,000 dinars per apartment? So your projection is in New Belgrade, near old Mercator, in an old apartment, 80 squares, 40,000 dinars of tax? In Old Town 80 squares 65,000 dinars of tax. At the Sava Wreath 104,000 dinars a year. Guys, who's gonna give a thousand euros? So everyone has to spend 100 euros a month, but from what they don't have to pay the property tax. You're saying I need to save. All we have to do is save food to pay the property tax. So it's not normal. We have a solution for that. If all those amendments, and I heard that no amendment will accept you, there is one amendment that we have submitted today that says – it is okay to be an increase, but no more than 10% a year. Let the tax increase, but by 10% per year, that the next solution for 2014 is not more than 10% but in 2013. Well, let's get the country fixed up, but let's take care of it gradually. Don't give us an increase of 800%. This is not a tax against Dragan Gilas, this is a tax against the citizens of Serbia and against the citizens of Belgrade and do not plant that thesis. This isn't a tax on rich people. Does Miskovic pay 3,000 euros, or 5,000 euros? He doesn't care. But those who live off their wages in this country and who don't have money for electricity and for basic needs, this is something they can't pay for. If you bring in taxes that citizens can't pay, you won't even charge them. Why are we bringing chaos? Taxes will not be charged either in Belgrade or in larger cities where housing prices are much higher. You can't make anyone sell at the end, because there's no one to buy. I believe it's your idea to sell people and move to other places where apartments are cheaper. Who's gonna buy those apartments? The market's down. The other thing was, there were plenty of polemics around the garden. Of course, this law introduces a tax on gardens. People, he's never been, since 1945, there's no property tax in this country, on land up to 10 acres. There were attempts earlier, we sat together in these benches a few years ago and prevented amendments from introducing land tax up to 10 acres. Why up to 10 acres? Well, mostly gardens are four, five, six, seven acres, so up to 10. That's what's around the house, that's your yard, that's your garden. Why is it taxing now? Who thought brilliantly about paying taxes on an apartment compared to a house and this land up to 10 acres? Guys, it wasn't. Look at the previous law. You say - it's not on city-building land. Well, don't deceive people's terms. You put very nice and even recognized what land, land and urban and agricultural and forest and other means. That's what the law says. So all kinds of land are taxed, taxes are paid on property rights. What tax, that fee that was paid for using, that went like a cadastrian income? Well, it's heaven and earth. My people, every house in Serbia that has a yard, besides paying taxes on the house, which will be several times higher, must also pay taxes on that land around the house. Well, the tax administration will come and estimate it -- it's worth your land, in that place, so many thousands of euros, and it will apply progressive taxes. Did you leave a progressive tax rate? And you can answer that – which does not reduce local self-government. Why are we giving this law to local self-government the opportunity to skin citizens? Here, we're MPs, we're sitting here, let's stop it. It doesn't have to reduce local self-government, we can now reduce the progressive rate for citizens. The other thing is, you're introducing a tax on legal persons on property. Why didn't you put a progressive rate there? Let's explain why Miskovic's companies and other tycoon companies all have houses, apartments, buildings on firms, why they don't have a progressive rate of taxation and citizens have? Why are we citizens worse than companies? A colleague of Petronivic, the esteemed, says - I support that companies are paying. I'm in favour of the company paying. Last time I put up the amendment, three years ago, so one MP group wouldn't accept it. And why do they pay 0.4% and citizens can pay up to 2%? What are citizens worse than companies? Have you thought about when you opened this up that there should be some tax breaks, tax credits? There's no relief in living in that apartment. There is no relief that you live with one, two, three, four, five or 15 members of the household. You can answer me – there is. Yeah, but up to 20,000 dinars. Well, when you cut my 300 grand tax, I don't want to pay 300, I want to pay 280. Well, then get rid of that 20,000 dinar piece. It was 40 percent earlier for those who live and 10 percent per member of the family household, up to 75 percent. It's something that would allow people to live, do you realize that we have the right to live somewhere by the Constitution and have the right to live in these apartments where we live for 20.30, 50 and 100 years? Not everyone bought new apartments, so they have 200 or 300,000 euros that they could give two or three years ago, now they pay the same tax as those living 50 years in that same apartment. They don't have people to eat, and they have to pay property tax. This cannot pass, but it is important to understand other parliamentary groups, because this is not a matter of the political programme DS, the URS, this or that. This is a matter of all of us and all of Serbia's citizens. No law has been passed since 2007, as far as I've been sitting here that threatens Serbian citizens in this way, has been beating directly in my pocket. What else is there to do? Come on, give people a job to do, so they can work and earn, pay some taxes. Like this, I don't think we're gonna do anything. You have amendments to each article, you have different versions of the amendments, we've written different versions to see if any of these versions can be accepted. From what the minister said, I can see that he was not doing projections, so you don't know how this breaks, it's simply based on projections of how it breaks in Belgrade, in different municipalities, and how it breaks across major Serbian cities. So this is a disaster. Please think again, and that's why we asked for the withdrawal of these laws, I just don't think it's fair to the citizens that at a political moment like this where more important things are being solved, in the country, you're practically laying down one law that will affect all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16976	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16977	An hour ago, I asked you to give me that bill, you won't give it to me. This is where the woman who worked with the colleague of the law sits. Why don't you let us take a look at that? It's impossible if you don't change a single important parameter in the property tax law, rate, eliminate depreciation, but you're changing the way it's being determined. It is the weighted market price that includes depreciation itself. Give me the receipt. Let's see 868%. If you're right, it's absolutely not intentional, but you can't be right. You hid it. Give me those papers you've been waving with. Why don't you let me take a look at that? It's for political propaganda. I don't mind standing in the law and the borders that you can't raise more than 10% a year for a physical tax. I don't mind. It wasn't intended here to increase the property tax for physical persons. It was our intention to help you run local self-government, to make up for the loss of a building land fee in legal persons. If you don't want to, you don't have to. Delete that article, too. Let's see what the cities are going to be financed from. Don't go to the demagogue and don't go to the false. It's serious stuff. Give me that bill right now. Let the people who did the law look at it. We've done simulations, it doesn't come out absolutely, because the only two parameters that change, for people who live in buildings, there are no 10 acres of this land that are not taxed. So that doesn't affect. The only thing that can affect is that there is no more depreciation, but by introducing a market price, that's what's going on. Well, what is the market price, for example. 45th Street traffic? She can't be made up. As much as it's trafficked, that's the price. It includes implicit and amortisation, because it's lower than, say, the market price on Dedinj. You know what you've been doing here? You probably figured out how much it would take to put a tax on people's assets to make up for any loss of participation in the profit tax, or maybe you confused the pots, so the City Tax Administration told you-- that, you're gonna lose so much to cancel construction land fees, the legal persons will pay you as much as you say instead. Is this about apartments for business purposes, for companies, or is it about citizens? Please come out with the truth. What's for sure isn't about any robbery. Robbery is when you destroy Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobank, so all citizens pay. Give me that bill, otherwise keep your mouth shut. Don't let me ask you for an hour to look at it, because we don't see how that's possible what you're talking about, how come only Gilas sees those numbers without seeing any other city? Why didn't any other city comment? It's impossible. This law hasn't changed the tax rate. You know yourself that you can have a zero tax on property, if you want, 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 70.4. So, if you have any doubt about it, let the restriction stand that for the natural persons of the property tax can be increased by more than 10% over one year and that's absolutely fine for us in the finance ministry. I note that no single dollar of that tax goes to the Republic budget. Everything goes to cities and municipalities. You'd better check it again. Give us those calculations, simply, it's serious things and things like that before you go public, sit with our professional services, check, we don't want to play with that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16978	Replica, Nenad Constantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16979	There was no public debate, as you know, so no one had the opportunity to sit with your professional services, to compare any data, or ask local self-government, or to cross data with local self-government, to create simulations, so you saw how it breaks. I don't want to keep my mouth shut either, nobody's gonna shut up. You cannot, as a minister, silence the MPs and tell them not to speak in the assembly. The flat on the 80 squares Savaweave is 104. So these aren't memorized projections. They were made at real prices. What are the real prices, when you cross the real price with parameters that you didn't change in law. You've changed one piece. You change the method of reckoning, but leave the same progressive rate. Change the method of reckoning, but don't let any reliefs. All I've said is real projections. Real projections that you will have in the building 100,000 dinars of property tax. You'll give one of your ministers a tax on property. Not everyone in this country has a minister's salary, and I think it's abnormal for one minister to pay an income tax on an apartment. What do you live on that month if you pay for your property tax? They were buying people flats on loans, so maybe they're paying off the loan, so maybe they can barely afford that war to pay off the loan. The creepy projections are when you look at them and you see them at 50 squares and 80 squares, let's not talk about 100 and 150 squares. I want to thank you for the fact that the Ministry is ready to accept all of us together and bring that amendment together that there is no greater increase than 10%. If you think you've done well this way, fine, but we don't have an increase greater than 10% every year. The next year's decision not to be more than 10% bigger than it was last year. I would also like to ask other parliamentary groups, I assume that the URS will support this, given that the ministry supports, that other parliamentary groups also support one such amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16980	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16981	The property tax law my team has been talking to a permanent conference of cities and municipalities for several months now. I told you that since 1 January of next year, the compensation for the use of city building land has ceased to apply and that compensation had to be found and that these provisions were made in fact together and with consultations with the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities. I don't see a single reason why you don't want to give us more than an hour. We won't take your amendments by heart. Give me the receipt. I'm sure it's not true. There's no reason to panic. Let's take a look at the numbers. It's math.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16982	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16983	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, today, when we talk about tax laws is probably not an easy debate and it is certainly not, because when we discuss tax laws and money, it always causes more heated debate and greater attention. Five tax laws, which are a continuation of the measures in preparation for the necessary reform of Serbia's tax system, are a continuation of the measure of reform of Serbia's tax system. This is just one of the segments that is necessary for the Serbian economy, in addition to regulatory reform and simplification of complex legal procedures. It is difficult to take responsibility in Serbia today and citizens do not live well in Serbia. It's something they feel every day. No one should tell them about it from the parliament, or on the TV screen. What's good is the fact that this government doesn't push problems under the carpet is the fact that someone figured out what it is that's going to create a problem in the next period and does everything that's necessary in order to avoid the culmination of the problem. Of course, it's not easy for local self-government either, but in a crisis, everyone has to save. Solidarity is something that must be expressed when we have a crisis everywhere, which is particularly felt in Serbia. The aim of these laws is to relieve the economy, to impose more on the richer, to create a fairer tax system, to increase the security for pensioners. When we talk about local self-government, of course there are differences. We have local self-governments that have very cleverly deployed their budgets and have made it even easier for the economy to grow in employment rates. We have local self-governments that have really invested in building kindergartens and capital investments. But I can also say that with full certainty, we have local self-government that they spent in last year's budget to represent more than the money they will be denied through these reforms. And that's what's sad in Serbia. It's sad that not everyone has the same sense of solving local problems. It's a shame people vote for parties today and not for individuals. Because I'm still convinced that only those people who can feel the problems and offer their solution should lead local self-government, not those who will use budgets on larger representations, to bigger donations to public enterprises and, perhaps, it'll be too rough, clogging the holes that are emerging. There is also employment, where this has been very misused in the previous period because, clearly, it was a pre-election campaign. What characterizes these laws is a reduction in the rate of income tax from 12 to 10%. I apologize to my colleagues, if they have to exchange views on the property tax bill now, could they come out and do it there or let me finish my speech, since I have two minutes left? (President: One more minute.) Thank you. So these laws characterize a reduction in the rate of income tax from 12%, an increase in the non-taxable amount of salary, an increase in the rate of contribution for compulsory pension-inhabited insurance, in order to create a precondition for a sustainable pension system, a rise in rates for flat-rate taxation from 3 to 6 million dinars. When we look at all this, since I don't have much time, I don't want to discuss whether local self-government will have less resources. I don't want to discuss who has damaged this budget through political experiments through the Development Bank and Agrobank. I would like to discuss how to create the preconditions for small and medium-sized enterprises to make growth and profit, to make it easier for them, not to file 35 applications but one, to resolve their business by electronic means and make it a commitment. Because only by increasing the number of people who will be employed will the budgets increase, and only by that will we lead to Serbia's citizens coming to a better life. That's why this government that can identify problems and solve them has no reason to lose support of the URS and my personal support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16984	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16985	I'll be very brief. I formally advertise Article 108, although you, Mr Stefanovic, did not violate Article 108. I was the loudest one when my colleague Travar-Miljević spoke. We were discussing the law, and I want to apologize to her if we disturbed her while she was talking. That's all I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16986	The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16987	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates, I'm supposed to be back on the subject. All that has been said so far, it seems to be bypassing the main topic, and the main theme is that Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic has informed us today that the deficit is bigger than planned. He also told us the reasons, he told us the causes and what we are trying to do now is find a way to reduce the deficit that went beyond the planned budget in Serbia. The reasons why such a minister's deficit was found in the downfall of retail traffic. Then he said that the incomes went down a lot just because it connects. He said it was a very low standard of citizens and that a gray economy was launched. As the VAT rate increased from 18% to 20%, every economist knew that this would leave a major impact on the market, especially on the retail market. In countries in this economic situation, any increase in the sales tax rate leads to a fall in traffic. When traffic falls, the causes are sought in the poor economic situation of the population and the population, in which case it moves to supply on the gray market, i.e. fleas become the place where trade is done as it used to. Today's law offering in the Serbian Parliament is one of the solutions offered by the minister. So he offered today's laws to cut the deficit by a certain percentage, by a certain amount, and then he said that the second measure is savings, and the third is budget rebalance. Since we are all, hopefully, aware that the deficit is large and that it brings the country into great economic danger, it was up to us today to suggest to the minister and to exchange views on whether the proposed laws can successfully reduce the deficit that is certainly large and the deficit that the country can bring to an extremely difficult situation. When we essentially looked at everyone today what is actually proposed to the laws, we noticed that the deficit is trying to reduce at this point by subtracting incomes that once belonged to local self-government, and we leave to the local self-government a very uncertain property tax law that might bring incomes, and maybe it won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16988	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16989	Thank you, Mr. President. The colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President, the honourable ministers, a set of six laws that are before us today and which is the subject of today's debate, represent a further demonstration of the intention to bring our public finances into order and to, as far as possible, correct some of the illogicalities that have become in the current tax policies. A room for promotion, of course, there is. The further work is inevitable, and we have to start from something. The Socialist Party of Serbia supports the proposed changes, as they bring much more quality solutions than can be given objections. The first thing that is important for us is to increase the untaxable amount of earnings, which partly respects the fact that the grey economy is the pain of Serbia and that this problem is best solved by giving people, unfortunately living on the edges of society, the opportunity to work and to simply get employment rights for their work, in addition to the money they receive. We believe that tax burdens for those who earn little need to be minimal just to give them a chance to be full citizens of our country, which we can see today that they are not in fact. A person who earns 20,000 dinars per month must be essentially less burdened with taxes and contributions. Secondly, we deeply support the idea of saving equally at the local and at the level of the Republic. The changes we have are going in that direction, and local self-government is about deciding what kind of policies they want to lead. It is not about saving in local environments only for kindergartens and other social benefits of local self-government. Savings are possible in different ways. New ways of harvesting source revenues have been opened, and there are mechanisms that local self-government can use to make a better life for its citizens in these municipalities. They do not speak exclusively of budget revenues on the quality of a local self-government. It is closely linked to the correction and one of the supreme injustices of this society, which is that legal entities can in fact not pay property tax, and citizens were not allowed to do so. There is no reasonable reason if we tax the property, that the property worth millions on the market, which is amortised in business books, is not taxed in the way it's done to individuals. Such solutions avoid giving out radical incentives to show personal property as a business, and even more so here in municipalities leave the possibility to choose what they want, more public income or more jobs. If we choose whether the pensioners will pay themselves before retirement which happens through funding pensions through the budget or will do so through the PIO fund, then of course this second solution is where and where more meaningful. The burden on employers is the same if we don't count on increasing the non-taxable base, otherwise slightly reduced, so this is a solution on the threshold of logic that things have to be called the right name, to know what they're for, what they finance, and at all to continue with something that could be called creating a elemental order in public finances, businesses and our society. Only if things are on healthy feet, and even if some picture in the fiscal mirror looks ugly to us can we recognize the causes of the problem, and solve problems instead of having them camouflaged behind large paroles that simply mean nothing if they were applied in the real world, the real world. Unfortunately, no one likes to tell bad news, no one likes to do things that are painful. But if we can't at least call things the right name of the strangers will be our reality. Our reality is that we're a society that's old, that the issue of retirement is an extremely painful issue and that we're not going anywhere unless we try to figure out that it's possible to have a system where pensioners live decently, which is the case today, and that we have low contributions. It just doesn't work that way, the wishes are one thing, and the possibilities are different today. A set of changes related to profit tax is particularly linked to tax relief and I think it must have been better and more carefully planned and it is certainly necessary and should consider the details. It makes it seem to me that the companies that are getting the equipment to lick are unfairly excluded from the tax incentives system. There's a fine adjustment to tax policy here, so it really takes things like this not to be discussed in a shortened, not to say urgent procedure. There are many things that can be promoted and that things that are dealt with by law are being overcome by sublegal acts, that is to say, we have some more of the unnecessary amendments to the law. What is interesting is that very little attention is added to the fundamental changes in the tax administration that will receive Serbia by receiving countries that I can rightly say have e-government and e-tax administration. The changes proposed will free up resources both businesses and state services now employed in activities that are a waste of valuable time of professional people, and these people are the key resource of our society. I know what I'm talking about. In particular, small businessmen who cannot transfer these jobs to specialised services or are being overly burdened. When the proposed solutions are implemented, our resources will be freed for much more meaningful purposes, and with further implementation e – the solution will have information in almost real time about where our public finances are going, which are the effects of certain measures, and will be harder to avoid paying for the services that our country provides to all citizens and legal persons. I'm sorry we're not talking about this anymore, because these are key changes, and I'm sorry that it doesn't seem like the right way to create some new values, new chances, even if the unfavourable conditions we're in, instead of focusing on the measures that are essentially redistributing some of the trouble that's going on. We support this package because we believe that it places some parts of our public finances on sound foundations and makes the tax system more socially fair. We regret that we haven't had time to change these and supplement through the amendments further improve, because there is no high policy here. These are clear life issues. It would be nice in our society to have a broad consensus on as many questions as possible. It's the only way we can get to quality when we're discussing details that were still on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16990	The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16991	Dear Presidency, honourable representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, when we discussed a set of tax laws in September 2012, I expressed concern about eradicating compensations from the Law on the financing of local self-government, as well as the Law on the Budgetary System, fees relating to the original revenues of local self-government for the use and regulation of building land. I said I was afraid those fees would be lifted since those terms were deleted from those laws. That's how it happens with a fee for using building land. I'm afraid something similar is going to happen with the compensation for the construction land in the future, that it will no longer flow into the municipal budget. All in all, we're getting into a situation where this is another coup against the citizens. Turn around, turn around, that ordinary average citizen of Serbia always gets in the way. Of these average citizens, I have not heard a single positive comment in these few days. I'd single out an interesting one that sublimates everyone else. He says, "Just keep peeling, in a year or so, there won't be anyone in the province to pay you all these taxes, which is surely true." We see that this decentralization of finance for the last few years has not been entirely honest and for the best of all, and from the point of view of a small local self-government that I come from, I'm talking about constantly changing the rules of the game where we local self-government can't manage. When the rule is amended immediately, it must be respected, of course, if not respected, immediately followed by the punishment, followed by the imposition of new obligations, competences, punishment for rationalisation, or not meeting the rationalisation obligations, but only in municipal administrations. Somehow it doesn't happen in state-owned enterprises. Somehow I think of the purpose of the existence of local self-government. Why do they even exist if we take their money slowly, and we impose on them all new and new responsibilities and new obligations? If you remember and you know what we're imposing through the laws on local self-government, it's not true they don't have any new motives. First, local self-governments must also maintain public areas, work on municipal infrastructure, because how and how will investors who are going to invest in production, in new businesses, start an economy in the locals unless we have a basis, unless we have that municipal infrastructure. The municipalities will not be able to build without these funds and invest in it, so that the ministry and government in this way send one indirect message to investors – don't come to us because we don't have a basic basis, or any base to invest with us, and even less to get those investments back to you. When we abolished the compensation in 2012 by local self-government, while at the same time increasing revenues in the republican budget, there was no redundancies in the economy, nor were the citizens relieved. We see this because this increase from VAT, from excises, the profit tax could only be seen because we increased the rate, but not the charge. Citizens didn't see any improvement because there was no price reduction. Local self-government today must take over primary health care and health homes, they must also take over the payment of jubilee rewards, take on an additional salary increase for all kindergarten workers, they must maintain regional roads. The truth is that for this year, the ministry has determined some of the funds to maintain these regional roads, but I believe that this will not be the case in the coming year. In addition, if they want municipalities to develop, they have to identify funds for anti-building missiles, for reconstruction of buildings and buildings, kindergartens, health homes, pharmacies on their territory, units of MUPs or police stations, fire stations, and also make sure that in the case of elementary disasters, they invest funds in the reconstruction of the power grid, construction of trafo stations. Most of these things are government obligations, i.e. ministries, but there is no possibility of doing so at some point in time, if local self-governments like the Cheeta Municipality want to develop faster, maybe faster than others, they don't have the possibility of the state investing in these particular investments, capital projects, but municipalities have to separate the funds themselves. We have some part of it, but the state has to help us, and at least let us keep those funds that we have on our territory to stay here. I believe that most of the local self-government, even the smaller ones, I speak on the case of the Municipality of Chatin, but certainly on behalf of most local self-governments that are quite similar to that of these incomes to develop, to invest, but don't disturb us, don't get away from us. Anyway, you don't have to get away. The damaged local self-government is because this untaxable part of the profit has been raised. Also, taxes, or income tax rate, we know that this is all going to the local budget, regardless of the percentage being raised to 80%, in any case, in particular the Čatetina Municipality, for example. 31 million dinars will be damaged compared to the planned budget on this basis. Also, we have limited the company's fees, not to mention another obligation imposed on local self-governments by judgments based on restitution, i.e. the return of land. Whether this is happening in some silent agreement with the representatives of the ministry or not, I really don't know, but the municipalities are now under the obligation to pay those judgments for some land that was taken away 20, 30, 40 years ago and it was worth a lot less than today. We've got the same thing from a couple of hundred million one convictions waiting to be charged, I just don't know where. This adds to the story of free legalisation, registration of property rights, registration of property rights over buildings that have been built illegally, which all introduces to anarchy, and it is the obligation of local self-government, I repeat, to build a municipal infrastructure and to maintain these public areas, but also of which funds when all new and new imposes on them. I also have a comment on the transfer funds, as since half of 2009, when the Transfer Assets Regulation was adopted, which is being reduced in all municipalities, and even in my municipality by about 50%, all those assets that have been transferred in the form of transferable assets have damaged local self-government in a large amount, thus reducing the revenues they have calculated, from which they could certainly invest in certain capital investments at local level, because municipalities are making a favourable environment in their environments to make investors come and thus can further develop, perhaps faster than others. I don't know why local self-government would pay so many taxes, and believe me, Zlatibor has a large amount of VAT coming into the state budget, if there's no more dinars to go back through any other kind of allocation for local self-government, like certain competitions that are being debated in the ministries, to which local self-government can compete. There is a situation where municipalities become dependent on the republican budget. We're coming back to the basic criteria, and that's a political resemblance. And last time I prayed that this political resemblance would not be a basic criterion for selecting municipalities that would receive funding in certain competitions, as it happened at a time when another party was the headquarters of the ruling majority in the previous period before these May elections, when we really felt great discrimination against all municipalities that did not have a ruling majority as it was at the state level. I'm just afraid something like that doesn't go on. That shouldn't happen. It should be taken away from the previous government, how they acted and transparently presented the criteria under which local self-governments receive some additional funding based on certain competitions, which are located in these commissions that choose these projects and so on. You must certainly know that people at local level, people whom their fellow citizens directly chose, know best what projects they should finance, which are projects that are the best, which will make the development of a certain local environment more advanced and increase the number of investments in that local environment, improve employment and make this local self-government more profitable than ever before, and above all from private capital, such as in the Čateina Municipality, where private investors mostly invest, because they believe that this investment is secure because of the favourable environment we have created so far in the past ten years. With all due respect, the representatives of the ministry sitting here in Belgrade can't know if this project is applied by a certain local self-government, and it's not politically similar, so to speak, it has all the necessary documentation, I mean, good or not good, it's best known by people at the place. Certainly, you can show that you are different if you define some money as suitable projects or for what local self-government begs you for, even though they do not agree with the ruling majority. Also, we can come to a situation like this to re-indemnify municipalities because they planned certain projects for 2013 and we may be in a position to put those new debts and interest rates in coves and local self-government and the state in dubiosis. I wanted to ask another question – do you know why only seven municipalities reported to cover these losses, i.e. to cover the costs incurred to carry out the work in the previous period, before the adoption of this law on monetary transactions, or payment deadlines? So that's seven municipalities, as far as I got the information. I think it's mostly because interest rates are huge, it's about 25% interest, when we watched the competition, and even more because the representatives of the contractors wouldn't sign the statement they said they were saying -- we're agreed to pass these obligations on to the state. So they trust local self-government more than the state. I really don't know what colleagues from the ruling coalition are going to vote for this to tell their fellow citizens, which is why they have reduced investments in their local self-government, which is why budgets are smaller and which is why certain plans will not be implemented. From the economy, people say – who has paid so far will still pay, who hasn't still won't, so I don't believe there'll be any better. There's got to be a belt. That's what we have to do, but we have to make sure that no harm is done to the citizens, but that no harm is done to the economy. We have a solution. The solution is to restructure the losers, to streamline the state administration, to invest, above all, these loans that we take, to invest in production, in domestic production, to invest in investments, in something that will return to us, to solve the issue of inspections, to resolve the issue of the gray economy. That's how we're gonna make progress. From the Standing Conference of Cities and Municipalities, I don't seem to have this time taken into account, as was the case when we talked about company restrictions. Our mouths are full of words of decentralisation, decentralisation, and now, as a result, we have a devaluation of all values. These words remain myths in Serbia. If you really don't think that we all move to Belgrade and live, let's really deal with the problem at the bar, because that real life is going on at the place. Let us preserve the municipalities, villages, and every household. That's how we'll save Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16992	National MP Branislav Mitrovica, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16993	Article 107. A little clarification, and I'm sure a colleague from Chatine didn't deliberately drop some things that are very important to the public. I have to explain. [[Božidar Djelic, from the place: No replica.]] It's not well-represented information. If a colleague doesn't object, why are you insinuating? I want to help her.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16994	Explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16995	So much has been invested by the government in Zlatibor, that Zlatibor and the entire Zlatibor district must have benefited and I'm sure the colleagues will confirm it. I believe that this government will do so on both Tornik and Stopic's cave, in many other destinations, of which Zlatibor has benefited greatly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16996	I ask the Members of Parliament not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is the right of the MP to express his opinion, and what you disagree with that opinion is another question. The word has the People's MP Bojana Bozanic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16997	Thank you. I thank my colleague Mitrovica. We really cooperated well in the previous period. I must agree with that and with the amount of investment in Zlatibor, above all at the Ski Centre of Tornik and the excellent co-operation with ski resorts in Serbia that has been and is still going on. We're very happy with the work. I'm not questioning that for a moment. I hope that's how it goes on and that we'll expand the Ski Centre Tornik, expand the ski paths and make it an artificial-enlightenment zone, which we've done so far, and we'll do some more wires. I hope that the ministry will help some other investments made by the municipalities of Chatin and will make every effort to continue to develop this favourable environment. What I was talking about, and you'll agree, my colleague, is about the unfavourable situations that all local self-government is going into. We're certainly not one example that's a rapper for everyone. The Čajetina municipality is a relatively successful municipality, one of the most successful in Serbia according to the budget that we have per capita, but I certainly think more needs to be taken into account about this decentralisation and that the funds collected in the territory of local self-government should certainly remain there and remain to develop further. Because, I repeat, the people at the bar, and certainly you know best, both in Uzic and us in Chajetina, what's good for our environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16998	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u16999	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in these few minutes, I would like to comment not only on this package but also on the general situation of public finances with which they are very closely linked. Three words seem to be the true feature of this package. It's bravado, ignorance and damage. Since these are serious words, I would like to remind the state that, above all, these are police, defence and justice, and to fund this, public finances are necessary. Without sound public finances, there's no state. We therefore speak the day after the IMF's warning, which is neutral here at least, that our budget deficit will be 8% of GDP and the same day of the fiscal council's warning that this government has sinned by 90 billion dinars, 800m euros in wrong income accounts. The situation is extremely serious. I don't think haughtiness as a first word is in place. We are suggested to discuss this important package in one day. The Democratic Party and other opposition parties have provided for it to be two days, but that certainly is not the way we can and we need to discuss such important issues. Casualty is also an insult to the intelligence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Just on a few clear examples, which we heard again today, I'm going to show you where this haughtiness is. The arrogance is to say that nothing changes because the rate of 80% in the Law on the financing of local self-government does not change, while at the same time reducing the base from 12% to 10%, i.e. to reduce those revenues by 20%. That's boastful, and that's underestimating the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's the same thing when it's said that this solves the problems of the pension system, when we know that what's being transferred from the bar to the pension system is one fourteenth of the total gap in our pension system. One month, a little less. That won't solve the pension system at all. It is the same to say that local self-governments have the problem of transferring 300m euros from their budgets that have already been allocated and where numerous public procurements have already been made under the new law. The haughtiness is to say that they must be more efficient, especially when it comes from those who, two years ago, strongly defended the opposite thesis and as much as they are now being taken away from the place, struggled to at that point in time, give it to them. Bahatoness is the same when it is said – this will help culture, because from 3.5% it increases to 5% the total amount that can be made in revenue to allocate to activities in the domain of culture, cinematography, sports etc., when we know that this year cinema has received zero dinars in the budget and that this is the weakest budget for culture since 5 October. It is boastful to say that this will help technology firms because there is an extension of incentives and the possibility that 20% of total investment in research in some new technologies is treated in the same way as the basic assets were treated, when at the same time giving up magically from what was discussed with this industry. It may not have been the best formula, but I can tell you that those who look forward to it today are Bulgaria and Romania, because they have and what a clear incentive for investment in the knowledge economy. It is also the same to say that this is favourable for farmers, because it is reportedly abolishing the tax on cadastrian income. One size that was so small and was so abandoned that it was never re-valorized, and every year in this assembly we delayed the payment of that tax. Nobody's going to say, I'm going to say, that agricultural land is being introduced in the same way as all other forms of land and, respected farmers, you'll be valued at market value, so you'll pay taxes. Bahato is to talk about, well, property tax that's to bid, i.e. These changes, what is the suspension of the compensation for the use of construction land. I don't want to talk much about it, because I think my colleague is just a little bit more brilliantly cancer and that arrogance and showed that he can't, when depreciation is lifted, when it comes to market valuation, say that it doesn't change anything -- and how it changes, and that's going to be seen by our citizens on January 1st. I hope the government, perhaps, by 31 December, at least in this case which is important, will hear what is the voice of reason and ensure that this law is changed as well. Admit this mistake, too. I could talk a lot more about haughtiness. I think there's really some ignorance behind the boast. This ignorance is the ignorance that leads Serbia to today, look at the IMF website, the biggest change in the assessment of the budget deficit in the world today -- the Republic of Serbia. If someone thinks it won't read the rating agency, if someone thinks it won't lead to an increase in the price of our debt, they've never dealt with finance. It's not too late. If all of this comes from public finance reform, I say, we're all in bad shape together. It is ignorance not to act on what anyone who has been working on any pump in our country knows for months, which is that it was fuel mixed with the euro diesel and sold as a euro diesel. What took you so long? You yourself admit that 100m euros has been lost for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Ignorance is also a brutal increase in excise duties. We all said that such an increase in excise duties, and it is not true that a little excise is collected in Serbia -- perhaps in some products it looks little to some developed countries in what is the final price, but today Serbia is the country that collects the most in proportion to GDP and excise. Then don't come today and be surprised why suddenly there's a big gray economy. It's intricacies, it's ignorance, it's amateurism. I want to say that it's very important that some of the things that I think have been done accidentally, and this package is full of these things. For example, the rent tax may be methodologically correctly now classified as one capital tax and a small detail, then belongs to a republican level and not to a local level. Where's that bill? Who's gonna make it up to you? Even some good ideas, and a good idea is that individual tax returns, I'm afraid as an extremely experienced tax collector, when I see that some bonds are being called to some pawn project, out there in October, try whether it really works. Let's not gamble with what is a key tax form in our country, which is still important for local budgets, and God also for the Republic budget. Did you really get that right? Everything seems to me like you're not. Since you do not know what the effects of the property tax will be, since obviously, and we see it from the explanation of the exposure, no one here is sure that this form will actually be able to compensate for the abolished, quite certain, since 1 January 2014, compensation for city building land. I think it would be wise for this whole package, because of its haughtiness and intricacies, to withdraw, to take these few weeks well, and to analyze it, to see what's really going on in it, to see with every municipality what's going to happen, because I guess now it's clear that there's nothing going to happen from this decentralisation. When there's no money, there's no decentralisation. Of course, intricacies are also what we're told to this day that we don't need rebalancing for this. Of course you should. If the revenue side of the budget changes, for God's sake, the budget that has the revenue side must also be changed. If you're changing incomes, the form of pension system income, that's what your PUPS colleagues could say, and that you have to adopt the pension system's financial plan and all that to change, both the amount and the way and the amount of money, and not to talk about the spending side because it's not the budget that's voted in this high House, then the government will magically decide whether to spend or not to spend. Yeah, we're saying there's a maximum, but if something's voted, it's got to be done. That is what this congregation has decided. A minister can't decide who gets more and who gets less. To make that decision, he must have the support of this home and therefore the rebalancing must be voted on as soon as possible. The damage is already great. The credibility of the Republic of Serbia through these permanent changes is also defiled. A number of our people who have credibility in public finances would have to wonder if they wanted to continue to participate in this experiment. I can only say one thing - the devil took the joke. When the hole is one billion euros, when the budget deficit is one of the highest now in Europe, and while everyone else is shrinking ours has increased and since last year, then we must all sit together, hopefully next week, at a session initiated by the DS to see what we do. Now methodologically - don't let the answer to both facts be "hold the thief". If there are thieves, arrest them and do not be the only answer, it is your fault. I remember well that this home was told by this government and this minister that they were fully taking responsibility for the 2013 budget. Finally, be ministers, be Government, we'll be opposition, we'll give ideas. But this danger zone we've been entering has been unprecedented for the past ten years. I appeal to all MPs present independently of their political orientation to stop this collapse as soon as possible, to sit down and try to get the public finances back on track. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17000	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17001	You've already talked about haughtiness, ignorance, you've mentioned, right, and amateurism, and I'm going to tell you what professionalism is. It's probably professionalism what's been done with the Vojvodina Development Bank, to push... Listen to the end and tell me if it was amateur or professional. So professionalism is exactly making citizens lose 220m euros, and then your party without a single dinar of security to get a 3.5m-euro loan. That was very professional. That wasn't amateur. Well done. To hold lessons on the subject now, 600m euros in losses were made in Agrobanka and Vojvodina Development Banka and another 20m in the Belgrade Business Bank. It's a subject because that cost someone has to pay. Who's paying for it? They pay the citizens. Instead of apologizing to the citizens, you're still talking about some kind of amateurism because you've done it very professionally. Without any guarantee dinar, the party took 3.5m euros in credit. Could these other parties have done that? No one alive could have done that. Well done on professionalism. As for decentralisation, who defends Gilasu, your new president, to issue twice as many building permits in Belgrade and to collect money? Why is he waiting to issue construction permits for a few hundred days? Why doesn't Gilas do it? Why doesn't he issue more building permits, which in this way doesn't encourage the economy and what doesn't fill the budget? What's amateurism, too? This fictional old town tax bill of yours is 700% or 800% you can't even give to the public for two, three hours because you invented it. If you're making that up, why would he consider any word of yours authentic? So you made it up. I'll read about you, Mr. Professional, the text written by the Fiscal Council, which we all appreciate together today, and it's about the evaluation of the draft law on changes and additions to the property tax law. Unlike those of you who have invented and are hiding some accounts of alleged property tax growth with 800% Fiscal Council says the following – the proposed changes and additions of the Property Tax Act aim to eliminate large-scale distortions and injustices due to different tax treatment of assets owned by natural and legal persons, as well as to allow for more realistic valuation of the tax base, especially in the case of legal persons. The fiscal council positively assesses the proposed amendments to this law as this will simplify the valuation of the value of assets owned by natural persons and allow the estimated values to more objectively reflect the real value of the assets. A more objective asset evaluation will have multiple positive effects. Positive horizontal tax justice will be improved, so that bonds of the same economic power pay the same tax obligations, and the ethics of weaker locations of economic resources will be improved, as motives for exploiting previously untapped assets such as untapped agricultural land will be strengthened. Then they say something that you have criticised – we point out, however, that when valueing real estate, reducing the tax base for the depreciation rate from 0.8 to 40% per year is an excess element that would cause a systematic underestimation of the tax base compared to the actual market value. In fact, the market price of traffic real estate in itself contains a corresponding reduction for the average age of traffic real estate, so that explicit depreciation will represent a double reduction in the tax base. Hence, we propose that the value of real estate be completely eliminated in order to allow for a more realistic and fairer assessment of the property, i.e. the real economic power of the obligor. Finally, the Fiscal Council positively assesses the legal changes in which the tax treatment on property owned by natural persons is extended to legal persons, which will significantly improve the horizontal tax justice and betrayal of this tax form. So, if we're talking about professionalism, if you're calling with the right to an institution that criticises what the budget deficit is bigger than the plan, which we also accept and we're giving a solution to how we're going to reduce it, then you have to accept the full opinion. Otherwise, you're a big professional if you don't. There's no selectivity. If you're saying we have a modern property tax law, like the serious countries in the world, we have to eliminate some things that weren't adequate. The fact that you purposely wanted to intimidate the people with false bills that you must not show to the MPs of the congregation or to us who have made this law tells us that you simply want to try something politically braided do not tell the truth. That's what it says about your credibility. This is about your knowledge, and the damage you've done with Vojvodina Development Bank, Agrobank, you've left this government late, and I don't want to talk about it anymore since I've repeated it many times. I want anyone who's well-intentioned in this room, whether it's from the ruling coalition, or the opposition to help, and many do. I'm not comfortable with every time something's not good, but it's good to hear something that's well-intentioned. Well-intentioned criticism is being adopted, but the politics of those who have done miracles, and that's why one good part of the people from their party is now lying in prisons, what is it? Isn't that a haughtiness, that besides that you teach lessons? You teach someone else's lessons, not us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17002	National MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17003	You know how, no amount of shouting, anger, tremors can deny the fact that we have the same man who said a few months ago that we're going to increase VAT from 18% to 20%, corporate tax from 10% to 15%, excise and that everything's going to be okay, that we're paying less our debt and that it's going to stabilize. Now here we are in mid-May, and we see that the IMF announces a 65% breakthrough, says it's trying to show a debt lower than it is, because it's showing up with a GDP that hasn't been made yet. Now that you're already reading as the founder of what the fiscal council says, let me add a little bit more. Here's what he said yesterday -- a devastation in 2013, a state of public finances poor, a deficit of over 5.5%, a public debt above 60%. The public debt crisis is very possible. Read that too if you read this first. Why do you only read where the Fiscal Council is? And if you really were an expert, then you would have read what that fiscal council wrote two years ago and on a law that led to the consequences that are now changing these amendments of the law. But you won't do it. And I think the situation is serious enough for us to stop lying to each other, to tell the truth. The truth is, it doesn't go into public finances at all in the way this government predicted. The truth is, so says the Fiscal Council, here's what I'll give you if you haven't read yesterday, it's available to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that no serious reform has been taken since the start of this government's work. The truth is, you didn't bring any new investors... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The truth is, we have an increase in unemployment and a brutal decline in consumption. And the truth is, if the only answer you've got-- you hold a thief and it's your fault, we're not getting it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17004	Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17005	The truth is, unfortunately, you didn't get up in time and you didn't hear everything I said in the morning. The fact that you haven't heard what I've been saying and about the evaluations of the Fiscal Council and about the problems the state faces and about what we're going to do doesn't give you the right to speak as if you've been in an O.R. Why didn't you get up in time? As for new investments, of course there are new investments. There should be more. I said it's not an easy environment. For example, the Geox, which was only discussed during the previous government's mandate, signed a contract to build a factory in Vranje during the government's term. Also, the company "Kerni" that has "Guchi", "Puma", "Yv Saint Laurent", "Brioni", signed a contract during the government's term. We signed a contract with Al Dahra from the United Arab Emirates. You know what, you can talk about whether an investment is real or not, and it's only after a certain time has passed, because the fact is that this is the first year when the Fiatian investment gives full effect, and it's been more than four years since the contract was signed. Unfortunately, in the economy things can't be realized or done overnight. But I also told some other MPs, there are a lot of things that are not good and that need to be pointed out, because it gives it to everyone who is a well-intentioned desire to fix things. Don't exaggerate and don't tell the truth, because there's a lot of truth that's bad enough, so there's no need for exaggeration, there's no need for numbers, that the place loses 300m euros. Where did you calculate that? Read the Fiscal Council report, if you haven't listened to my opening statement. The redistribution effect is at an annual level of 20 billion dinars. That's not 300 million euros, I don't know what course you're using. Be careful, be a professional, if you teach others.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17006	According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17007	Mr. Chairman, I believe he's a injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I just wanted to get back to you. During the discussion, the one who addresses the MP directly, the one who tries to silence the MPs, the one who practically tries to threaten all of us with a tone, whether expecting one of us to give up his speech and bring facts here, is wrong. I believe that the chairman is obliged to warn him whether he is a minister or an MP or anyone, that he cannot bring the MP into a situation that he cannot state his opinion, that he is forbidden, that he is rebuked, that he is expressing his reasoned opinion here. The fact is that, in Panchev alone, based on what is proposed by this tax law, there will be a shortage, a reduction of 400, 450 million dinars, and these funds will go to the Republic, that practically the Ministry of Finance can have it. The fact is, within two minutes, I'll stick to the discussion, resent us, return to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, resent us for not taking it out. The MPs are directly offended. I, who's registered to the speaker, ask if I'm allowed to say that 450 million will be taken from the citizens of Panchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17008	I owe you an answer. I do not believe that the Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason that he is the previous speaker, although I was in the dilemma whether to remind him of the way he was discussed, using words – boastfulness, ignorance, amateurism, and a little insulting both this assembly and the ministry. If you say it's ignorance, then the entire institution is insulted. I kept it quiet. The minister, I believe, responded adequately, he did not even use those words, but took advantage of the word – professionalism. Professionalism, as you understand it, is a different question, but he was talking about professionalism. Do you think the Assembly should plead to the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17009	The Honorable Chairman, I call on Article 27, and I would like to say to the team that today has been repeatedly broken by the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we didn't want to react, but this is a parliament, right to the word must be sacred in this house. Today you took a break on the insistence of MPs past the Rules of Procedure. Today has changed the order. Your predecessor, Mrs. Kovac, after the presentation of authorised representatives, past the Rules of Procedure, gave the right, which I have no objection to, but I'm just mentioning and saying that here is the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's sad and sad about it here is that someone is hating and exulting over the fact that in Serbia, it's not a good financial situation. That's the problem. No one should be looking forward to it. You don't need your own personal vanity right now for someone to sit here and iron out, why there's not enough money in our budget. That's why we should all be worried. The finance minister is concerned, so we all have to worry about that. I urge you not to allow any more abuses of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17010	I owe you an answer, since there's been an advertized violation of the Rules of Procedure. What I'm trying to say is that I took a break from the Rules of Procedure. The fact that it was a little later, that's another question. My assessment was that it was appropriate to take a break at the time. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure during the subsequent debate, that's not my problem, I didn't chair at the time. So I don't need you to direct that kind of breach to the Rules of Procedure. Ivan Jovanovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17011	Your Honors Chairman, I'm reporting to article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. I ask you to order representatives of the Ministry, or representatives, because he cannot address the MPs in this way. How can MPs in the House of the National Assembly be offended in this way? You don't have to let that happen, because you're in charge of protecting the integrity of the National Assembly. How can we argue if the minister comes here to arrange us? After all, the minister has been a member of all governments since 2000, a participant of all affairs since 2000, and he has been teaching someone here. How is that possible? You don't stop him from doing that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17012	Please, stay on to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. As for the order of the Assembly, as far as my responsibility is concerned, I agree that my responsibility is as the chairman of the largest, but the conduct of the MPs and your conduct in many ways affects the course of the session. Therefore, we must be courteous. I fully agree that there should be a dignified debate in the Assembly, with all arguments and objections to the law, in any sense. So, to point to only one side, and not to see yourself, I don't think it's correct. That's why I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you want, we can also plead that injury. Srdjan Mikovic, according to his injuries, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17013	President, I believe that during the discussion, that is, when pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Ilic, you violated the Rules of Procedure, because you allowed your thought to lead to the end. He mentioned Article 27. However, I have pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and after that Mr Ilic reacted, and he cannot point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure to refer to whoever pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I understand the need to keep a person and act by members of a single parliamentary group, but one that points out on the basis of Article 103 on the violation of the Rules of Procedure may point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately following an injury done. So, if there's been a direct injury, it's practically my point of reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That is why I call on you to strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, to keep the discussion of all this, about all these six laws running uninterrupted, not to be able to point to many digressions that have gone far, far, far beyond the subject of the agenda, and by the wave of those who should have defended the bill, and it has been said about quite other topics. That's why I think you, Mr. Vice President, are in line with the article. 27 and 32. Rules of Procedure, you need to direct this discussion in a certain way, in order not to continue to appear after any further violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17014	I can only agree with the saying that an MP cannot harm the Rules of Procedure. Please, I'm always obliged to answer whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not, to say my opinion. I did not realize that the MP Ilic pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Messenger of the people, but that I had injured the Rules of Procedure and thus explained it to him. Therefore, I do not believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured in this regard. If you want, can we say yes in the voting day? You won't? Okay. I'm asking you to bring the Rules of Procedure down, he's really losing his mind. People's MP Snezana Stojanovic Plavsic came forward after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17015	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 107, violation of Parliament's dignity. You have injured, of course, and not anyone else, because you have allowed your colleague to lecture us on how to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague who has today reported a two-day-old breach of the Rules of Procedure and is allowed to do so. Now let me say a few more words about what's arrogant and what's professional, since those words are also used here. Bahato is talking here about the non-recognition of the fiscal council's report. On the contrary, the minister spoke clearly of this today. Let's read the World Bank Report that's talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17016	Mrs. Snow White, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17017	Please don't interrupt me, my time isn't up. Don't interrupt me, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17018	I won't allow you a replica. No, it's a replica as soon as you talk about the arrogance that's passed, and you can only talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. [[Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the place: It is not a replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17019	I can explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure as I wish. I explained why I answered, you gave me your word and please let me speak for two minutes. Then I'm not gonna use the word "bahato," I'm gonna use the word "insolent." So, what's rude is that there's no mention of Belgrade's public debt which is much greater...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17020	Please, I won't give you my word. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17021	The Honorable Chairman, you have violated the provisions of Article 103 by giving the same MP group several times the opportunity to speak allegedly of some violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this, because their expertise is how much Mr. Djelic, as president of the Roma Integration Council, has been professionally guided and released by a man who is expert in leading professional Serbia. Because if you don't know Roma integration, you can't even lead Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17022	Mr. People's MP, the right to breach the Rules of Procedure is given in order to the extent that I can. Please, it doesn't matter if it's from one party or another, but in order. So, I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. (Srdian Shane, from the post: But only one from the same parliamentary group can. () If you wish, can we say yes in the day of the vote? (Srdian Shane, from the post: I don't want to say yes in the voting day.) ) The word is a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17023	Thanks, after 10 minutes, but good. Mr. Chairman, I am advocating the violation of Article 128, and yet all in the interest of this professionality I will say indifference, because it is certainly not professional for DS MPs to hold parliamentary cards in MPs' units, almost all day long several cards are standing inside, and that MPs are not present at all, and I ask you to order or ask professional services to take intensive care of it in order to be professional by the end of the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17024	I accept your suggestion and ask the professional service to take out the MP's cards. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17025	Let's start over, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm advertising Article 27, because you're obliged to take care of the order at this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17026	I have to tell you that you've already advertised Article 27 once.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17027	No, I advertised Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17029	So I'm advertising Article 27. - You are obliged to take care of order at the National Assembly session. You can't let someone insult the MPs by saying that we're here defending someone's character and act. We're here to defend our position and our opinion. Do you agree with me that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure? If so, may I continue to speak? Do you know what the protection of character and action is? That's when you protect someone who has 15 companies that make revenues that are higher by 2,300 percent. That's professional. So, a company that increases profits by 800% from 2005 to 2009, and business income by 2,300%. Then, the gentleman also has another company that increases business income by 534% from 2003 to 2006, and from 2003 to 2006, when Mr. Gilas performed functions in the country, he increased his income by 4.460%.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17030	I have to tell you, if you keep doing this, I'm gonna start by saying the warning, because this doesn't make any sense anymore. You've advertised the Rules of Procedure's injuries, and it's moving on to replicas. I won't let that happen. Please. Srdjan Mikovic, come in. Replica? Does anyone else have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? No, there isn't. ) Bozidar Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, let me say, let's be exact, 200m euros are being kidnapped now, and you're subtracting an additional 100 million by abolishing the cost of using building land and removing parafiscal charges. That's what the minister said earlier and I'm replicating it. I think I stand very firmly in words, because it is an insult to intelligence when you are constantly shown things in the opposite way of what is real reality. It is said that we are deleveraging, and Serbia has 4.5 billion euros in debt more. Let me tell you, when we talk about expertise, it's not disputed that there are some things in this package that might be desirable. I'm going to give an example -- yes, we know well in the DS that it is a European standard, that when someone builds for a further sale they can only keep it for a year without paying taxes. We know, it is a standard. I ask you a question – is this a moment, now that there are so many built, not sold apartments in Serbia, with a building industry on its knees? Does anyone here really think that this is the ideal moment for an existing provision, that investors can keep that apartment in stock and that they don't pay taxes, that this time, when they have to pay taxes within a year on what everyone, well-intentioned Mr. Minister, we know well that they can't sell those apartments? No one can sell them at this time. Why are we pushing them to pay taxes on something we know in advance can't be sold? It is, the European standard, not applicable today. Pull this package. It's time to professionally, calmly talk, no offense, I'm nobody here and I'll never personally insult, but what worries me and us in the DS is that every month we see that the public finance gap is deepening, we see that panic slowly arises.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17032	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17033	You say we take 100m euros because the compensation for the construction land has been abolished. Do you know what law that fee was abolished? By amending the law on planning and construction, brought by Mr Oliver Dulic. I know you left Tadic. Maybe you left Dulic too. But Mr. Dulic was never in any of these parties that are now running the government. By the way, I think it's a good thing it's been lifted, but it's not kidnapping, because it's not a transparent way of taxing. But just don't have a double arsenic, 'cause you take strong words. Clearly, if the parafiscals are lifted, it's good for the economy. For you, it's a kidnapping, if you're gonna unload the economy and you've kidnapped, I don't know, some incompetent mayor. I know who I mean. It's not kidnapping, when you cut off the business, it's unloading. What all the local self-government was complaining about, I don't know where you got this from now on. Literally, all local self-governments complained that companies are physically held in company books, that some property is for further sale, and they don't actually sell to avoid paying taxes. We're making it impossible now. I'm saying, you have the right to hold it for a year at the most. Because if you have any property that's really for sale, sell it. The municipalities asked for it. The cities are losing money on it, because the companies were fictitiously showing a good portion of the property that it was allegedly for further sale, and they had no intention at all and had no intention of selling, in order to avoid paying taxes. This isn't about citizens, it's about companies. It's a good solution and we'll stay with him. But choose the words, please, because I can understand that you want to criticize the people you were with yesterday, like Dulic. But you take the word, I don't know, in this case it's not justified, even when it comes to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17034	Mr. Djelic, I'll give you a replica and we'll finish, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17035	Thank you. Let me say that what you were supposed to judge, what you announced when you started doing this government, is that very soon, very clear regulations will be laid down to make up for it. Here, it's only now. We can also see from your explanation that no one actually knows what the effects will be. You want me to read from your explanation. You say since all of this is at the level of local self-government, obviously you didn't cooperate with them to see what the real effects are, no one can know today about the accuracy or approximate number of how much money here will be compensated. So you go into some zones, and then you go to some transactions, etc. I have to tell you, if we want to be exact, we've checked, in the budget that you proposed and was adopted in the end, in a shipbuilding that you say is not in the light of that budget and that it exists, a billion and two hundred. So let's first well know the laws that are adopted here and then tell each other the truth. The truth today is that we are in a much more difficult situation than you ever wanted to tell us and that it would be much better not to be under the pressure of the IMF, but because it is a national interest, before summer, after the session that we will have Thursday, where we as DS will make proposals, and you will see little criticism, we will give suggestions to see how we can, probably in some other configuration, get Serbia out of such a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17036	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17037	This shipbuilding item has never been applied, it's been downloaded since the beginning of the year because we thought there were important things, we published it. I know you've been on vacation in the Caribbean, so you haven't heard of it, but we've eliminated that at the beginning of this year, and we haven't spent any money on shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17038	Borislav Stefans, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17039	Here's how it happens. I have to replicate. When people give you exact information. At first, you said it wasn't true. It doesn't say anything. Then you said - it says, but not in that part. And now you said, "That's what we threw out." That's the dynamics of your political development. You change your statements and attitudes at the monthly level and calculate that no one in Serbia remembers what you said before. Use insults, attack DS, tell complete lies. You tell people here the worst things possible. What does that mean to you now? You didn't come here to argue with the DS, you came here to answer the questions we asked you and the things that were perfectly accurately presented to you. You don't have to agree with that. But I don't understand where you get the right to say things about who left who. Well, you left Labus in charge, so we paid back your debts. Well, generations will pay back your debts, Mr. Dinkich. Well, don't talk about leaving all the time, who was on the flight. That I think really goes beyond all decent frames. We will not report to the Rules of Procedure because we want the session to continue, but please, enter the scale, talk to us about what we are telling you. The fact is right in front of you. You say it's not true, I don't like the facts. Okay, but I don't know where you're getting these things from right now. Dear Gilas will not be mayor. You know what, maybe Dragan Gilas won't be mayor of 2014, and where you'll be, we'll see about that. I can guarantee you won't be a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17040	The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17041	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone here said the opposition is exulting because of the poor financial situation in Serbia. It is far from anyone exulting because of what the situation is today in Serbia, but it is the basic task of parliament, it has also been created to control the government's new taxes imposed on people and citizens. It's basically our mission here and we've been doing it here all these days since these laws entered the procedure. In our opinion, it is inadmissible procedure under which these laws have entered into an emergency procedure, without a public debate and this debate today in principle proves how right we are when we claim that no parliamentary standard has been applied, a European standard when we have started a debate on these laws, regardless of what it may be under the Rules of Procedure, but it is contrary to every principle and practice of good governance. I think that's where all the citizens who are watching us will agree. Our core opinion is that the government has not measured the effects of these laws well. What's been said here that for months the government has been working on preparing these laws, it doesn't work that way for us. It seems to us that this is pretty much an improvisation. The best evidence for that is that measure that was proposed two weeks ago in public. In the morning, the ministry's representative said a property tax would be introduced to another apartment, so that the ministry's representative would deny it during the evening. If this has been the case for months, this really leads to a very well-founded suspicion that these laws have not been seriously worked out and that the effects of the law are not well calculated. For example, a tax on the use of construction land is abolished and must be replaced by a property tax. On the fact that the effects of this plan have not been calculated to the end, the Fiscal Council is also saying: "The fiscal council proposes that closer research on fiscal effects, integration of compensation be carried out by the beginning of the application. If it is estimated that certain local self-governments will not be able to make use of construction land in an adequate way to replace the property tax, the option may be considered to further increase the tax on property. "That's what we're talking about, when we talk about the effects of the laws that are in the procedure that we're discussing today, they're not fully seen. That's why we talked about these property tax projections. That's what people who aren't amateurs did. They worked for people in tax administrations. They did it, of course, in a hurry, just like these laws entered the procedure in a hurry. We'd like to see the projections that the Ministry of Finance had, to compare them. That's why it would be good if we had a public hearing. That's why it would be good if we had the opportunity to have expert circles on this discussion, to animate citizens, to have the opportunity to talk about it as MPs with citizens in our midst. So we can convey their concerns and their interests. That's why we serve here. It's not fiscal advice that we need to hide behind right now. They're professional people. They speak within their jurisdiction. That's their reports. But if the Fiscal Council were to wonder if any laws should be passed, then they would be parliament. No, we're adopting laws here. We'll face it, we'll read the fiscal council reports, but carefully, as you can see. It has been said here that these laws are not about citizens, but about some allocation of budget funds from locals at the central level, etc. That's absolutely incorrect. All fiscal laws concern citizens in one way or another, directly or indirectly. When we talk about changing every tax system, we have to take care of some basic rules and characteristics of what makes a normal tax system, which is that it must be, above all, predictable and must be tolerated as an intrusive. We always have changes in the system here so that when a citizen, investor or anyone in this country wants to buy something, to invest money, to invest somewhere, he doesn't know what a real fiscal system, what a property tax, what a profit tax, he's going to face in a year or two. So the tax system must be absolutely more stable if we want to make any progress in this society. If in any way we question this, we are essentially jeopardizing both legal and property security of citizens, then entering the gray zone, then entering employment on black, then tax evasion, etc. For years, we encourage people with housing loans and other ways to invest in real estate, and now we introduce them with a significantly higher tax burden. Maybe they're right, I'm sorry if they're right, when they say that here in this country isn't worth investing in or building anything, but it's better to keep money in a straw. It's devastating for a society if we come to such a conclusion. I want to believe that we as a society and as a state do not want to send such a message. In modern countries, which we want to join, citizens are now encouraged to invest in housing, thus increasing, of course, and contributing to the growth of the construction industry, paying value added tax and all. So, they contribute to their savings, that what is inherited is aggregated, to invest and thus contribute to the community. In this way, by introducing much more severe and more severe tax burdens for citizens, we even question the message we sent by adopting the Law on Restitution. Many have now recovered their family estates and property, so the message we've been sending them for hours with these huge tax burdens on property. So it's not true that these changes in property tax do not create an additional tax burden. It is created by eliminating the restriction that 10 acres of gardens or courtyards will not be taxed. The burden is increasing by eliminating depreciation, and still not taking care of one very important social component of housing, which is that it is a very different situation when you have in one property where the owner himself lives, and quite different if he lives with members of his family, two, three, four, etc. It's not right for the IRS to be equally burdened. We have submitted some amendments that suggest greater justice in this regard. I think it is also very important to stress here in this debate and in the media that the maximum tax rate is 0.4%. That's not true. Article 11 which is not amended by this proposal for a property tax law does not amend Article 11. We couldn't bear the amendments to that article, but it's essential that injustice remains, which is that the tax on property for the persons who run the business books, means, for the businessmen, it remains up to 0.4%, while for the physical ones it's 0.4%, and up to 2%. If someone really wants to tax the rich, then I think it would be fair if the property tax rate for the people who run the business books, and the owners are real estate, were in line with the tax rates paid by the natural persons, because it's not a rare case, that the companies of rich people buy both houses and villas and all other assets that represent luxury and do not pay property tax at progressive tax rates. In such a serious economic crisis where we, in this growing unemployment, every new kind of taxation of citizens is an enmity to the citizens, at the very least. The words here and the hard words are said, but I think it's very important to bear in mind that, in our deepest confidence, every local self-government will have no big problem dealing with how this law does not apply. We have submitted amendments, I think that they are in the best spirit of co-operation and constructive opposition to submit and I ask the Government to pay attention to them, because we will, of course, vote against these laws, unless none of our amendments, or essentially, are adopted, and in the coming days with citizens, we will be very intensively discussing the effects of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17042	The word and the People's Messenger Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17043	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, of the proposed set of tax laws, is, in my opinion, a witness to the collapse of tax and economic reforms carried out by this government. Who knows which way it is confirmed that this government is unable to implement tax and economic reforms in this country. New taxes for Serbian citizens mean that those with a salary of more than 200,000 dinars will have a lower tax, and that the property tax will be increased up to eight times. Obviously, given the overnight decision to release the laws into the assembly procedure, no projections and fees of the property tax have been made, according to changes in the laws to be proposed. I'd like to announce some figures that weren't made by DS, but by the tax authorities, that an old town apartment of 50 squares that has so far paid a tax on the property of 3,600 dinars, the property tax since 2014 will be 26,000 dinars. The apartment near the old Mercator area of 50 square meters that has so far paid a tax on property of 2,900 dinars will pay 16,000 dinars. The apartment in Zemun Polje, and with that probably the URS is going to campaign for local elections in Zemun, will be taxed with the current 1,650 dinars with 8,000 dinars next year. So, I didn't make anything up, and here are the papers some people signed. I don't need to make up what you'll see during my next speech. The Democratic Party has repeatedly warned that Serbia is too in debt, that the budget deficit is too large, etc., and claims about such a thing have been declared unfavorable. We have to admit that the budget is unprofessionally drawn up. The planned revenues are initially overestimated. That means the undervalued budget deficit. I read the IMF's analysis, and those for our finances say bad planning has been done, and above all, they estimate that a poor estimate of profit tax has been made. Furthermore, they estimate that it is a very poor coordination of fiscal and monetary policy, i.e. that the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance do not have good communication and coherence in their work. The next thing the IMF resents is ignorance, wandering and improvising in the work of the Tax Administration, setting deadlines, their delay in debt reprogramming and the write-off of tight interest. Also, there were unplanned expenditures, for example, based on the payment of the principal guaranteed loans to "Srbigas". I think "Serbigas" is particularly to blame for DS, right? There is also a wrong policy in the Ministry of Finance, and this is a way of attracting foreign investment to direct subsidies and executive tax relief. We continue to give huge direct subsidies to jobs where 20,000 dinars are paid and we give them to foreign companies that make their profits from Serbia, not to domestic companies. Attraction of foreign investment is achieved through the reform of the tax and economic system, which has failed. I am pleased that the minister admits that excessive pressure on the economy has weakened fiscal discipline. So instead of 30% of the grey economy, we now have 50% of the grey economy. These laws should not be called the discharge of the economy, but should be called the real name. This is spilling 20 billion dinars from the local self-government budget into the central register, but that doesn't apply to all local self-government. The minister suggests that the tax on property be zero if some local self-governments are able to afford it. Not all local self-governments are able to afford it, only some are capable. One of these, I assume, is the local self-government municipality of Raca, whose chairman was a member of the URS presidency and who on May 10th invited citizens to her Facebook profile. I will quote, along with all the grammatical mistakes: "I personally invite you to come to the premises of the municipality and personally see how much funds we have received from the ministries, whose ministers are members of the URS." What's the URS doing with campaign loans? They can also lift the property tax. So I invited my colleague Babic to come to the O.R. because I wanted to ask him something, how do you let this happen? (Zoran Babic, from the place: What? Why didn't you listen to me? (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: I will read the stenogram. ) Therefore, the government's financial policy comes down to how the URS will cross the censorship, not to good planning and spending reduction and to good management of public finances in Serbia. So, every expense is justified if the URS crosses the censorship and I ask you why you allow it, I ask you on behalf of the citizens? I see your MP benches are... (President: Whom you ask, Mr. Senic, since you do not have the right to speak directly to the MPs under the Rules of Procedure, so please. I'm talking to the MP group, I'm sorry. I see that the parliamentary groups of forwarders are empty, I see that they probably gave up this kind of reform and that they are no longer interested and I urge them to stop supporting financial policy in Serbia, how does the U.S.S. cross the censorship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17044	Thank you. Do any of the applicants want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I've been trying to understand the point of a young colleague's discussion... (President: Please, Mr. Granny, just a member of the Rules of Procedure? ) Article 107. You've warned him nicely that he has no right to speak directly. I think we're all here to protect the interests of the citizens, not to think whether another parliamentary group will cross the censorship or whether another political option will cross the censorship or not? I'd rather a young colleague thinks about the DS censorship, because from what they've been doing in the past, I can see they're going down hard to fight for censorship. Therefore, SNS policy is very clear, brave, explicit. We always go out with that policy and always come out with our attitudes, not afraid that because of the reforms we want to implement, maybe we risk losing power tomorrow. I don't see any problem with that. Neither the MP nor the minister's office nor any other function is our grandfather's, so I have to stay in it. I am more concerned and more concerned with the goal and what we will achieve in this way, and I think that through the fight against corruption that no one in Serbia can say that neither exists nor is institutional, no one can say that we did not courageously treat the citizens of Serbia who live in Kosovo and Metohija and other citizens of Serbia, that we did not courageously express our views and our desire to solve this problem. Therefore, please do not, or, when you mention the SNS, think carefully, put your finger on your forehead, say everything and praise everything we have done in the previous period, because there is much to praise. As for the census, think about your censorship, and we'll see how far that census will be in Koserić and Zemun.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17046	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17047	I really wouldn't answer, but this amount of helium balloons can't last in one room, or what the people would say is, "What's Grandma, that's what happened to him." That as far as we'd get, whether we'd cross the censorship, we'd leave it to the citizens of Serbia. Since you're so sure of yourself, you know, I'm going to quote a great army leader who said, "When an enemy makes mistakes, don't get away with it," and that's exactly what I'm telling you. We tell you nicely, the results of letting them cross the census are catastrophic by the Serbian economy. You are complicit in destroying the Serbian economy. You are complicit in destroying the Serbian budget, and your answer to that is – what do you care about their censorship, take care of your own. I understand that Vlad Ilic has answered, but you have such a major role now, plus a lower-value complex, that this is unsustainable, and then you have to show that we are all at the edge of the census, and you are all powerful, standing on top of the mountain. We used to have that feeling. And let me tell you one thing, consider this as friendly wisdom and advice. One of the reasons he's falling off that Pyement, that Obelisk is the man who's sitting here. And when we tell you that, we are not saying it to make deals with you, but to save the citizens of Serbia, but not by saying – DS is fighting for censorship. Imagine! We'll die of your concern. Take care of someone else. You're looking for some thieves amongst you. You're looking for thieves among coalition partners. Show that inconsistency and uncompromising. I know what you will say. But citizens listen to your story for a year – make sure it does. But none of it has anything but that helium that you're full of, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17048	MP Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17049	There is a saying in the Serbian people, and it reads - a man learns from his mistakes. I think she's out of line. Time passed that saying. Now there is a new mistake – a smart man learns from other people's mistakes. We've seen both haughtiness and intricacies and everything that's depicted power over the past 12 years. We've learned, gentlemen, don't teach us how and what to do. We don't need that kind of concern. We're here for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have one message I'm going to repeat for the third time: the first 20 years will be difficult for you in the opposition, and then you'll get used to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17050	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Ilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17051	I really wanted to hold on, but how can I not tell you? The third time you offer to advances for the coalition and the third time – basket. So, it's hard to do that. What do you care about our censorship? No one praised us like you did tonight. You have now confessed and shown that we have run you. How can this one little G-17 or the U.R.S. One so powerful and great DS lead? We didn't run you, you know what you did. When you respond to the citizens of Serbia where the money from Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank is, it will be the beginning of your recovery. When Mr. Gilas explains how it is possible for his 15-ac companies, if he allows me, I will read what they are called, it is not hard for me, "Multicom Group", "Multicom rent", "Bella team", "Direct media", "DM marketing international doo", "Big print", "Frendee", "Emotion production", "Ovation advertising" etc., and (5.0.00) and the fact that all English names speak about the nature of this man. What if it's Serbian firms, these English names? What's this about? How could he have increased these companies' income by 800%? How is it possible that he got rich from 2004 to today so much that no one can calculate how much money he has? Some say over 100m euros. Let him explain to us where he got that money. How is it possible that we have the most expensive bridge in the world? (President: Time. There, that's the subject. Don't worry about the U.R.S., worry about what Babic says about your censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17052	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17053	Just for clarification. So we don't worry about your censorship, please, for the sake of truth, we care about Serbia and its citizens and we point to the fact that you're using this country's finances, systematically destroying this country's economy to cross the censorship. As far as we're concerned, if the citizens of Serbia think, you and 50%. Just don't do it with methods like this. That's what we ordered. The other thing - the companies you counted 90% have nothing to do with and perhaps more, with Dragan Gilas. But it doesn't matter. Here, count 200 companies. This cannot possibly undermine the fact that your leader, Mladjan Dinkic, has only had one firm for 12 years and this company is called "Serbia", which he is holding back as a cow and a museum. That's the difference between you and me. That's a fact. Someone can also have English names, can also have Japanese names for a company, if it works fairly, pays taxes and does something before politics. But when someone enters politics with their pants on the counter and with a black roll and comes out of politics by having to be 12 years in it, in a company that owns it—e, it's you. We're not obsessed with you. Our enemy and political opposition is the main party. We are saying this because they have become your accomplices across the back of Serbian citizens, to do something if they can, and can, and not to go in with them. You guys got off to a great start. Why would we bother you? Keep going like this. No one, believe me, will care about the censorship when people finally see what you do to them every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17054	National MP Vladimir Ilic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17055	Since you're asking, here, I'll read it to you. Property structure – 25% Dragan Djilas, 25% Milica Delević, 42% Dragosav Ilic, 8% Nebojsa Gavrić. This multicom company is participating in the capital of all these 15 companies and that... (Srdjan Mikovic, from Place: Theme. That's the darkness. The man asked me, and I answer him. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17056	I ask the People's MPs not to receive it from the scene. I take care of it. The replica is and, therefore, let Mr. Ilic replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17057	"Multicom Group" 93%. It's the company of Dragan Gilas. Silvana Mandurović – 1%, Jovan Stojanović – 1%, Jadranka Drinić... I don't want to read Gojko Gilas - 1%. "direct media public relations Belgrade", "direct media public relations doo Belgrade". The street of the Antifascist Fight. There, the street's in Serbian. Property structure: "Direct Media" – 65%, Nevena Kurtović – 35%, "Direct Media Skopje", "Direct Media Sarajevo", "Direct Media Podgorica". Is it possible that one man controls all the media and all the media space in Serbia? Yeah, it's possible when the DS government and it's taking and it's taking a day today, unfortunately, but it's been five years intense. Dragan Gilas controls 80% of Serbia's media space, along with Shaper. That's why you should keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17058	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17059	Don't, my colleague, please, just shut up. That's not appropriate. That's what we told your minister. We asked him. Don't do that. The silence of the Members of the People is not convenient. The second thing, if we're about to adopt a law on the origin of property, it's going to be very interesting because all you've listed is someone created before entering politics, paying taxes neatly, but plus half of it, I repeat, more than half of the companies have nothing to do with that man. But, and if they did, if we adopt this property origin law, check it out nicely, so let's see the next thing we know: how the minister can have, I don't know, how many hundred squares, live off the minister's salary, pay the loan, pay the loan on the car, for example, so when we see how she's doing National Savings, let's see how it's done... Here I can read you the list of victims of the URS economy, your economic policy. The list of victims is far more impressive than that, than this list you read, for the citizens of Serbia, not for us. You don't fascinate us with anything you say. Imagine, dear colleagues from the Democratic Party, we are in power because we rule the media space? We, what nine months do you drag through the mud in the most organized way? You're saying we actually control the media that drags us through the mud? Well, we're the phenomenon of world politics. Well done. If I hadn't heard this today, I wouldn't have believed it. So, Dragan Gilas has been dragging himself through the media mud for nine months? Be serious, please. Everyone in Serbia knows what's going on. People look at us and react with indignation to what you're preparing for them in the economic fiscal field, to be precise. You can't cover it with those stories, the lies and all the things you're trying to do right now. I repeat, if someone has ten companies, pays taxes, is properly registered, can't compare with you, whose only firm is the state of Serbia for 12 years, and you've pulled everything you've come from. Well, every kid on the street knows that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17060	The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17061	I'll apologize if you show me and prove how he's managed to increase his fortune by a thousand times. I read all the data I read from the APR. Explain to me how it is possible that one firm in Serbia, or 15 of these two key companies, can increase their total income by 1000% without having employees? How is that possible? How is it possible that someone has a turnover of billions of dinars right when they entered politics, from 2004 to 2012? Explain that to me and I owe you an apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17062	The next registered speaker is Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17063	Thank you to the President-in-Office, honourable representatives, ladies and gentlemen MPs, a set of tax laws that are now in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the plenary discussion is in fact due to the poor situation in our country's economy, due to the poor situation in our economy. Today we have another experiment from the finance and economics minister, who has been the minister of economy and finance or finance for 15 years or a government official, a participant of all affairs in this country and today holds lessons, while on the other hand trying to get his hand in the citizens' pocket by taking away funds from local self-government, funds intended for investment, and therefore for an economy that only these investments can do something about it, these funds are trying to replace by increasing the tax on citizens' property. Today, the situation in our property is such that the government deficit is 61 billion dinars of the projected 132. Thus, the expected deficit will be at least 5.5% instead of 3.6%. It's something the Fiscal Council says. We told you similar things when the 2013 budget was adopted. When the budget rebalance was adopted for 2012, you said – you have no right to criticise now, this is yours, we're just trying to correct. Although even then, most of the current coalition was in that government, you have no right to criticise, you were the headquarters. Who is the headquarters today and who is left in this government? After that, you adopted the 2013 budget and you claimed – we are now responsible, from this budget will be our responsibility. What about that responsibility now? We're here today. We told you there'd be a rebalancing in the spring. You didn't believe it. You have spoken – it is not true, you are telling lies. We were saying that the income side is unrealistic and that you can't make these revenues, that most of the economy is going to go into the gray area because you raised the VAT by 2%, because you raised the excise duties. It couldn't have stayed on the same level. In the real sector, 30,000 workers were out of work in the first two months of this year. At the same time, according to a report by the Fiscal Council, income from earnings increased by 0.5%. From what? Of course, from hiring in the public sector. In this country, it is enough now that you have a fake diploma and a party book of some of the ruling majority parties to get a place in any public enterprise in the public sector. We're in debt 4.5 billion over the last 10 months. We paid 400 million back for the 2004 debt also made by Mladjan Dinkic. The day before yesterday, when you came to the National Assembly and asked for a debate on a set of these laws, we asked to discuss budget rebalancing, as it stands in the Constitution of Serbia. The Serbian Constitution says you can't discuss and change the waste and income side until the budget changes, or we've asked for budget rebalances. That's what the Fiscal Council said yesterday, that a budget rebalance is needed under these laws. You didn't want to listen, and you just postponed the session for today. What manners does this government use? What politics and deeds of heritage of the government of the 1990s? I have had the government's conclusion since 28 February 2013, which changes the deadline laid down in the law. Proposed by the finance and economy minister, the government has reached a conclusion that changes the law that we have passed in the National Assembly. That's what we were talking about, fellow MPs, telling you that this is dangerous and that the government is trying to usurp the Assembly. You didn't believe us, and it continues. Today we have no rebalancing and we do not have the opportunity to discuss economic policies, economic policies that will allow this country to move towards recovery. We from the DS have reformed. We've developed a program to get out of the crisis. We've got the measures set up and we want to talk about them, but we can't do it without the rebalancing proposal. When there's a proposal for rebalancing, then we can talk about them. Why didn't you reform? Here, the radicals took off the badge, and you're not even that. I don't think you can transfer responsibility to others to get out of this situation. Serbian citizens are not naive at all, they are aware of everything that happened in the previous years, they are aware that there is nothing of the thousand euros in action. Then you had various excuses, economic crisis, the EU. Today we hear the same thing, the EU is back in crisis, it's in crisis again, we can't count on previous projections. It's either the crisis or the EU or Dragan Gilas. It's never been your fault, and you're the only factor of the government over the past 13 years. On this basis, I believe that this disastrous policy led by the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose SNS headquarters and in which economic policy continues to be run by Mladjan Dinkic, will not be able to put an end to the fire that occurred in our economy. This set of laws is just a temporary solution. A glass of water doesn't put out the fire. We've submitted the amendments. We are sure that they can fix these laws that plan to rob Serbian citizens, but we are also sure that you will not accept them for the reasons you have proposed them in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17064	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17065	Tell me first one of the only reforms you've done while you've been leading the government? Just give me one word if you've reformed. The reform of the judiciary that the EU has seen as the worst possible. It was asked by the new government to undo it. What did you do? There's one thing, I'll admit it. It's military reform, military professionalization, but it's the man your current boss asked to return his mandate to this assembly, Sutanovac. The second thing, in the Law on property tax for natural persons, only one item has been changed at the recommendation of the Fiscal Council, and that is not to go and not recognise depreciation, since market value is being valued. What am I gonna do now? So that you don't spread your demagogue, as you won't give us an estimate for hours on which you claim that some rates grow 800 percent, how come all your calculations come from old Mercator, Old Town? Where's your Krushevac bill, from Nis, from other cities? Clearly, he wrote it to you, Gilas, and as parrots, you repeat it. That's your job. That's how you learned. If it's a reformed party, it's an honor. A parrot party that repeats something innocuous without any argument, but in order to avoid any dilemma, I'm going to do something I didn't want to do. I wanted to follow the recommendation of the Fiscal Council. I will restore depreciation to the law, so that no single element will be changed for a tax on the property of the natural persons. I will propose, if MPs agree to adopt on the Committee on Finance that the only change that is in the Property Tax Act, which is to recognise depreciation for apartments, then let's see what happens. I know what your strategy was. Yes, Gilas I am a fan of people and to skin them with 800% increase, so to speak, it was done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. How can he do that if the law isn't changed? We're not gonna change the law and it's a lot more demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17066	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've never seen in my political life that anyone loves Minister Mladjan Dinkic as much as DS. If we take a minute, it's like three or four times the mention of his name in a minute, and it's on the people's side, who's in love with him. I really can't understand that. I can understand that you're going into some arguments in the criticism of the law. Here, maybe you've won a little political victory. We won't bother you with that. Don't insult the MPs of the SNS because they didn't all come from the SRS. Some came from the DS, some came from other parties, some weren't in any party before that. People try to forget their own ugly past. As far as reform is concerned in the DS, I would like you to carry them out honestly, properly, but all the opportunities will be for you not to implement the reforms, but rather for you to be conducted by the competent state authorities for everything you've done while you've been in power. When you begin those who have done damage to Serbia to get out of the party, then we can trust you. Until then, however, let us retain the right to doubt this honesty of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17068	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17069	We're not in love with Young Dinkic, believe me. We only point to one policy in which you are an active participant, which destroys Serbia's economy, destroys less employment, destroys local self-government. We didn't love Mladjan Dinkic as much as you loved him so much that you made him a prison suit, Mr. Arsic. It's your old love, and you've mentioned it a lot more often than we have in the past, you'll agree, but you'll agree to it on the side. Let the DS go. It addresses its voters, Serbian citizens. It is a party to which, in addition to all your wishes, the conditions you set for us in the wind, you cannot harm more than you have already done with a word of lies, insults and a media campaign so far unseen in Serbia. If you think, Minister, that's the parrot party, it's called the auto-projection mentioned by Mr. Vukic, that's what you mean by your party. You go out with candidates for vice presidents in equal numbers, with a candidate for president in the same number, so once, that is. you and there all raise their hands like parrots and repeats – the URS, strong Serbia, only the united, nor the region, nor Serbia after you, nor decentralisation, nor economic prosperity, nor employment, nor the rivals to you or vice presidents. You see, there's all this in the DS and we have people choosing directly and secretly between multiple candidates, unlike all of you who lift your hands when the leader enters the O.R. So we're not parrots, we're called auto projections, and that's a fact. When in this Serbia you're done with the work you've started, gentlemen of the government, there may be only one parrot left to cut the cage so that he can get out of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17070	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17071	I won't answer that again. The media hack you're saying is being conducted against the DS, I read official data from the indictment against the former minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Sasa Dragina. There's a big difference between the suspect and the defendant. He's getting blamed right now. As you ruled on the facts, I said in the session, that only the damages in Vojvodina Development Bank and the Agrobank account for 600m euros. That's half our deficit. It's 75% of the debt Gilas has imposed on the Belgrade people. They already know many of my colleagues, I've had a company for 20 years, but I don't have anywhere near, not even 0.3% of the wealth that Dragan Gilas has. From where? Fair enough. You know, you make all kinds of transactions and machinations, a privileged position, and then you say, "I paid this tax." If it wasn't for the mayor, could you? If it wasn't for the director of the church, could you? Could he make us these videos for the Law on Public Procurement in the field of culture? Could he? That's what this is about. Wherever you got caught, you ruined it. You can protect yourself, you can justify yourself. You may not be yourself, but the government in which the DS was in is the most responsible. You're talking about the deficit, four billion euros in debt to this government for a year. No, only nine months, but out of those four billion, two billion and 800 are your debts this government had to pay. You can nod your head, but that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17072	National MP Ivan Jovanovic, a replica of the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17073	I'm glad it was educational what the DS MPs said, but only for one view of martisation. I think it takes a lot of attitudes of these laws to change, and that's not enough to save the citizens from this protracted government and their punitive proposals. There's no reason to use demagogue, to call ourselves for affairs. I think there's a lot of inexplicable things. Today in Serbia, you live far worse, so I don't know what it is, really. If it's zero tolerance to corruption, I really don't know what it is. Why is that? Who then contributed and who makes it that today in Serbia has 17% less retail traffic than last year at this time, that unemployment has come to 30%, that basic consumer food prices have raised 30%, that the consumer basket has accumulated 25%. I don't know who's to blame. Is that what the DS is responsible for, too, which isn't in power? I repeat, you've taken over, you're in the government, you're responsible for the citizens. They're aware of that. You can't change that with empty stories. It's empty stories. It's not Dragan Gilas all-powerful. He is the mayor of one local self-government in Belgrade, and that you are trying to transfer responsibility to another, it will not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17074	National MP Vladimir Ilic, a replica of Mr Stefanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17075	Only to a young colleague, prices can't be expensive, they can grow or fall. There's one Chinese wisdom that says -- whatever a man talks about, he always talks about himself the most. You've said so much about yourself tonight to all of us, that I really don't want to comment. All of what you just said about the U.R.S. actually applies to your party. We've somehow gathered candidates, chosen leadership. I doubt you'll have enough candidates for your leadership, because most of them will be arrested and already arrested. If you ask me, I support the Sutanovac, although I think the better candidate is Dr. Sapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17076	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17077	You see what happens when, as distinguished colleagues on the other hand say, the truth hurts. Then the insults begin. Unfortunately, it's not the first time, and I'm really surprised, really. Last time I asked you, try without those insults, unnecessary things, but it's not worth it, it's stronger than you. Now we're worried that, as you say, all our officials will be arrested. Let's make a deal. Let's make a deal. Let's make a deal. I don't want to talk about colors, so I don't have to imply anything. Then, let the people on the street make a good judgment as you say, since a respected colleague, the head of the SNS parliamentary group is now taking the charges against Oliver Dulic, and he is not his lawyer, and as far as I know, he is not his attorney, nor is he working in the prosecutor's office, as far as I know, but the man is taking out the charge dead in the Serbian Parliament. It's your authority today. The charges are in the hands of those who shouldn't be in places they shouldn't be. You write them, gentlemen, you read them publicly, you judge them, you make a verdict in the tabloids, and then you come to the congregation and you say, "You are thieves." That's what you told us last time. You didn't apologize. Now you tell us again. Let me tell you one thing. You have taken one road that is very dangerous to the citizens of Serbia, dangerous to your political perspective. It may come as a surprise to everyone, and you may not be surprised right away, but you'll be surprised for sure. Then what do you need to do, turn the stakes around? What, then, should we label you as thieves, that we tell you what you've been doing for these little eight months that you've ruined Serbia? You really don't know where they lead such hard words, colleague, so to speak for a political group. I can tell you're unprofessional, and you are. I can tell you're fighting for censorship - fight for it. I can tell you're lying to citizens - you're lying. But to charge you directly like this, I can only make some of you that I'm 100% sure of. So that's what the D.A.'s office is going to do, when a uncompromising fight against corruption is finally launched.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17078	Time, Mr. Stefanovic. Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, on what basis do you want the word? Who mentioned you? (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17079	I had no intention of, in any way, continuing this pointless debate, but I'm just going to repeat once again - 17% lower retail traffic, 30% higher basic consumer food prices, 25% higher consumer basket prices, 30% unemployment. That's your score. You can't call the DS. It is quite clear that after these political references and hickeys started by your colleague Mitrovic, and you continued, what was in the middle. I agree with Borko Stefanovic, I'm sure all affairs will get an epilogue when the international government arrives.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17080	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17081	I don't read and I don't write indictments, it's what prosecutors read, it's what lawyers read, it's what judges read. These are the most common newspaper articles and data copied from the indictments. But I didn't prescribe them, they were prescribed by the same editors who worked for you. Let's say, in Telecom, on the "Mondu" download from the Internet, nothing special. What you did while you were in power and the sparrows know more. That shouldn't be hidden. One more thing, I have the right to doubt both yours and the president, because according to what our people say, whoever lies and steals. I don't know how he didn't know his ownership stake in the press, so he had to shut down the sheet, and he had to do it with Miskovic. I'm sorry, we really have the right to doubt your sincere and good intentions to help the citizens of Serbia. That's what you were supposed to do four years ago. When you mention the economic situation, I would very much like someone who has loans, as a citizen who has loans, to get him a job and pay off his loans in nine months and live as a rich man. Is there one in Serbia? It doesn't exist. There's no such thing as anywhere in the world. This is your data on whether to live better or worse in Serbia – it is hard to live in Serbia. Is there a better way to live? We do, at least a little bit better. If you look at how many citizens have paid on behalf of the loan due to the unrealistic and high rate of the euro, and only a thousand euros are savings from the eight thousand dinars of the capital. In the economy, too. (President: Time. Where's he going? It doesn't go into straws, it goes into life, it goes in services, it's in goods, it's in goods, it's in goods, and because of the speculators, it's what you supported while you were in power, it ends up in their straws. That's the difference between you and me. Easy, don't be afraid for Serbia, it'll be better.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17082	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17083	Mr. Arsic, the official data and numbers have denied you. Realistically, it's up in all segments of Serbia. It's no pleasure in that right now, believe me. I'm not saying this because I would now convince you of something that citizens already see -- now that you've solved the Kosovo issue, now that you don't have too many convictions, except for those who have previously committed crimes, now that you've let criminals out of prison, now that you've let the party army into public enterprises, now that you've shown that you're able to make tens of thousands of new unemployed in Serbia, now that you've shown that all the economic parameters show absolutely total decline, except exports because of Fiat. When I tell you now that you are importing electricity at one price, so export it to a lower one, now that I tell you that you filled the entire EPS building in downtown Belgrade with party personnel, and it was empty until six months ago, imagine your capacity when you managed to fill the whole building with new people, a wave from "Grand", that's what people know in Serbia, and that's what it's all about. You have the right to doubt. No one can take that away from you. But you have to keep an eye on someone before you accuse them, because that's what some other organs are for, not you and me. It's a very serious thing. The one who lies, the one who steals, but you know it from all your presidents before. Don't talk about lying and don't talk about stealing and morals. Just don't do that, please. We had strength and capacity, and we always change people from the DS, because the party is above each individual. We're just waiting to see you. I already see that living people are making statues in Serbia. You ran into yourself a little bit with that. It's not right to give lectures from that position. I'd understand if you were critical, but you weren't. (President: Time. You understand, I can accept some of your arguments, but you didn't give it. Please, stop dealing with the feather cop and run this country. Don't bother us with that anymore. Let the people do the investigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17084	Thank you. Mr. Shane, just tell me on what basis do you want the word? (Srdjan Shin, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17085	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure who's been directly injured. With all due respect, I would really ask all my colleagues in this house not to mention the tapes. I'm reminded of yellow ribbons, and then right after he says that when they come to power, they need to mark us with ribbons. Not to mention the tapes or the markings of the houses... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Shane. Let me. You should have stopped it. (President: The way you understood it, I didn't understand it. Please don't. Let me finish by the end. I'm really asking you this time, your smiles that you send on that and the criticism about us when I talk about it, it's inappropriate. This is a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is a serious violation of citizens and yellow ribbons we cannot replace with blue packages in the elections, but we must take care of it, and you as the chairman first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17086	Mr. Shane, you've deeply offended me now that you've told me I'm sending some smiles at it. Let me tell you something, Mr. Shane, the camera doesn't record me all the time. What you just said is a big insult. I won't give you a warning, because it would be too personal. I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly in the future because you are a people's messenger. Be dignified. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept some responsibility for these nine months while we're in government. Let's measure that 12-month inflation as much as you were in the government. What you're not saying is that inflation for the first six months, until last year, while you held power and now entering the accounting value of inflation, was 5.5%. What are you talking about? It's your fault. This government was formed only in early August of last year. And your bad results, you want to show them as ours. Since a colleague is not ashamed to say -- inflation in Serbia is 24%. That's what I'm saying now. Official data - 12%. That official was yours, too. In those 12% I ask – how much is your percentage? Answer me that. Answer for that chaos in the economy and economy, which took place on 1 January 2012, and began to end in late August 2012, which you did because you pushed funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget into the campaign. One more thing, when someone's talking about lies, I'm capable of putting up with a lot of things. What most Serbian citizens won't stand for, and while you're in power, there's a lot of things you can do, and what's nice is ugly, probably people in some elections will forgive it, but never, ever, when you push your hand into the pockets of that same people, rip those pockets... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And then you put what was in your pockets in your pockets. He won't forgive you, and he doesn't need anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17088	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Borislav Stefanovic, you called a little late, wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17089	I'm done with the replicas. I'll just tell you one thing. In March 2012, when elections were called, inflation was 4.4%. Veroljub Arsic: Until March. ) In March 2013, inflation was 14.1%). Veroljub Arsic: Until March, not March. I explained to you, four years from now, how much the previous government owed, and how much for eight months. Absolutely, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, the data shows that you do not have the competent expertise not to know that you are doing it, that you want to press and release at the same time. Well, that's not working. Don't get me wrong, I'm really saying this. You can't keep spending here at the same time, pushing party personnel, having SNS pump money into your party that has 1,000 euros per day in campaign villages, from where? And you don't have donors. And you have no donation from the Universal Bank, which has nothing to do with Miskovic. Is that true? Doesn't it have anything to do with it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So what you're doing is showing only parameters and figures, and the fact is that you're in charge of over four billion euros in eight months, that over 30,000 unemployed have three months, new unemployed. Does no one have the right to tell you now? Doesn't anybody have a right? Can't anyone point to those numbers? Does no one have the right to criticise? For what? How do you think you're blowing our mouths? When you've stopped everything and put all your media in this party, not to say what, we will again stand, Democrats in front of you and tell you who you are and what you are, gentlemen... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... We'll fight you again. And when you break our legs, we'll fight you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17090	Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17091	I'd like to ask you again to get the exact information. It was not inflation in March 2011-March 2012, 4.1%, but in January 2012 4.1%. That's, you have to admit, a record. When you talk about the campaign, the SNS didn't take credit when she knew how much money she would get from the Republika Srpska budget based on the results she had won in the elections, so she took more than DS, and look at who she took it from, from Bojan Pajtic, and then Bojan Pajtic had to block you. What do I do to you? I think it's a very funny and sad story, that it's not serious. When you mention debts, it happens that the son inherits the father. Inherit the debts. We have inherited from you debts, but you are not our fathers, thank God. We inherited debts that were not projected on the income side of the budget, where the Budget Law was violated, where the Budgetary System Act was violated, and now you blame us for having to raise credits for the bills you signed. It's a really good way to think and you have a good logic. Leave that story alone. The only thing I ask of you is criticism, but argument. Look at the size of the euro last year, and look how big it is now. It certainly affects inflation, just not in the sense that you made it... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... but it can happen to be even negative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17092	Predrag Markovic, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17093	The Honorable Chairman, please, you have clear members 103 106, 107 and 27th and all rights, precisely to preserve the Parliament's dignity to decide when you will give a replica of what the subject is today, and I remind you that today is Slovenian Literature Day, so there is no reason to verbally convince us what anyone has read on Facebook or who has data, let the data be submitted, but let us continue the work that we are here for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17094	As always, Mr. Markovic, you're right, I'll listen to you. That's why I give my word to Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17095	The National Assembly is a place where accurate data must be provided and the same methodology used. You, when you talk about the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, use one methodology to calculate inflation, and when you mention this period now, quite another. You are talking about international inflation when it comes to our government, and you are talking about monthly inflation when it comes to the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. What's the truth? The truth is inflation is still high, but it slowed down compared to the previous period, because in March, the month you mentioned, inflation was 0%. Mr. Arsic is right when he says that. Also, it's not the right amount of public debt. I've mentioned it more than once, I'll do it again. Public debt growth in the previous term was nine billion euros in the previous government of Mirko Cvetkovic. Our government is responsible for an additional growth of 1.4 billion euros, as it is not easy under the conditions of the inherited deficit of almost 8% of GDP from last year, outstanding debts, the cost of saving the deposits of Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobanka, is not easy to run the economy and solve problems. It's true that many economic parameters aren't good and we're all talking about the situation being difficult, but the fact is that there are some shifts I've been talking about this morning, and I'm going to tell you again because you said there's no movement. First, exports increased 22%. That couldn't have happened if it was just Fiat. It's not true that it's just because Fiat contributed to it. Its correspondence is large but 22% of export growth would not be possible if only one company were concerned, but it is still one number of companies that should be larger, but that is why this is also a result, because imports have not grown, 0% remained and the current balance of payments deficit for Å has been reduced. The fact is that it's a stable dinar and the fact is that one good part of the economy had problems because of the negative exchange rates in the last year, because there was no predictable environment. Finally, I don't think it's right for you to blame me for the tone, the way you talk, the way you don't hear how you talk, the tone and what words you say. When you mention the question of my apartment, I absolutely advocate that, on a proposal from people who have been fighting corruption for years, this law on the origin of property is passed, to see how I acquired it, I have no problem with it. I'll document every penny. I don't have an apartment of a few hundred squares, as you falsely said. (Borislav Stefanovic: I didn't say that. You said it. Secondly, I want to see how your leader is, how you are, how Mr. Djelic acquired some property and whether the property is for example. which private property is registered as a company's property, whether it's done by law or not. You know about the villa on Senjak, which is run as a business property, and in fact, up until a few years ago, Gilas lived there. Let's see who's who and who's what and not tell empty stories. In the end, the man who gives arrest orders, as prosecutor, has not been appointed either by Aleksandar Vukic, nor have I appointed him, Miljak Radisavljevic, the prosecutor, has appointed you, so if you are talking about some objectivity, you cannot complain about the man who was appointed by the vice president of your party Miki Rakic. He's still the vice president of your party today. So obviously, a man works impartially, works by law, and that's the only way to keep it going. I resent the head of my MP club for saying what he said about the arrests. It is not for the Noble Messengers to announce anything, nor to say anything about it. On his behalf, I apologize to you, but the fact is that the judiciary needs to keep doing its job. It's just a request to talk about facts in this congregation, truthfully, without too strong a word, because the situation is hard enough not to have to exaggerate, it's enough to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17096	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17097	I'll just take a minute. Prosecutor Radisavljevic has set up the Prosecutor's Council. So there's not one party, not one vice president, and there's a little bit of a way around the truth. On the other hand, we have pointed out what I am grateful for that you too saw a mistake with your head of Parliament, because that just confirms that, unfortunately, the rule of today's Serbia in which we live, where politicians and the media under their control condemn people, bring out the truth, ruin lives, and when it ends, nothing. That's what this is about. Today, in a few places the most terrible lie has been told, many false things have been told and things have been said a guy - they're all going to be arrested. If I understand you well now, you agree that's what people in the D.A. and the police should do. If that's the case, then I don't think we have a problem here. The origin of the property and the background check is the thing that DS stands for, we've always stood for, we stand for it now and we'll do it in the future. This also means that, as is the order, the highest public office holders are first checked. Then there will be interesting things, not in terms of how you bought an apartment, not you personally, I'm not talking about you, but other factors of government, and how they live every day, it's in a difficult proportion. By the way, the people you've been calling here all day have gotten honest work and have evidence of it and pay taxes to their country, unlike many others who pay taxes elsewhere. There's a difference in which we obviously can't connect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17098	Thank you. The word of the international MP Nedjo Jovanovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17099	I refer to Article 27 and Articles 103 to 107. Given that we are entering 12 hours of debate today at the session where we were supposed to and how much more high-quality and efficient we are working on the agenda, it is obvious that this agenda has been deviated in part almost all day, and it is obvious that no one can be absolved for the breach of the Rules of Procedure on this basis, given that the agenda point has given up significantly. Given the number of people reported, the question is, how long are we going to be working tonight? It is an appeal to all MPs to return or to the agenda and to bring to an end what we are normally obliged to do, or that you, the chairman, determine the session's end at 2200 hours, so that we can continue the next day as best we can, because this is becoming exhausting. It is one appeal for all MPs and a request that, in the further debate, we are really attached to what we are here for today, and that is the debate on the laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17100	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17101	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have prepared a completely different discussion, but I must say that today's debate, especially in the last hour and some time, inspired me to realize that it would be difficult to say that we are discussing these tax laws as a set of reform laws, but they could already be called – the laws to bring down Dragan Gilas. A team just a few minutes ago we heard from Minister Dinkic that he was going to end that depreciation or apartments for Dragan Djilas' spite, to see what he was going to do. Where's Mrs. Milica Bisic, Mr. Dinkic? Did she, meanwhile, contact with the tax administration, tell you that these data, which you two have been claiming to be false and incorrect, are related to the tax on property, are somewhere accurate? As I listen all day – who is to blame – Dragan Gilas. Aman, people, this Dragan Gilas can leave the mayor's seat, you can change him, but will it fill in the Belgrade register? How do you fill it out? Three billion left the register because taxes were abolished, parafiscal was imposed, Minister Dinkic boasted. It is true, Mr Dinkic, that taxes have been abolished for both shoemakers and carpenters and for hairdressers and bakers, but there have been suspensions for abortions on Savi and Dunav, compensations charged by the city of Belgrade. Those fun places with singing, shooting and killing, but it's tourism, and it's all for tourism. Billions for gondolas and cableways, three billion taxis. Billion and a half, I just found out, maybe it's not true, but it's from the rent tax. You said seven, and some say nine billion since the suspension of this section of salary tax belonging to local self-government. By applying the law on changes in laws relating to compensation for construction land, a few billion more, or nine billion. What will the budget register be filled with? What did you leave to Gilas, but to all the other mayors? To introduce a tax on property, gardens, gardens, birdhouses, and no rafts. I'll tell you right now, it's not true what you said about these laws not hitting the citizens, that they're going to hit local officials, especially Gilas. Gilasu won't miss the hair on his head, but he'll hit someone else. They'll hit pregnant women, maternity parents, students, pensioners, drivers, pedestrians, walkers, athletes, culturers and you'll get hit. There will be no more money for artificial insemination. There will be no more money for baby packages for newborn babies. There won't be money for free textbooks for students. There won't be any money, I don't see any P.O.P.P.P.S. colleagues, for the pensioners with the lowest incomes. There won't be money for new playgrounds. There won't be money for sports facilities, and I won't even talk about culture. Of these couples, provided by the laws of two years ago, the city financed these needs. Minister Dinkic said that he should save local self-government to rationalise his expenses. These costs are not prescribed by law and, as he would say, are not necessary, but have also made life easier for the citizens of Belgrade, and those of the most vulnerable categories. With these cuts, that's enough. What's done is done. He won't come back. These categories I've listed remain without those projects, in the second-hand years. I also mentioned these cultural ones of mine. They are particularly threatened, especially by institutions whose founders are local self-government. It's not exactly a republican level either, but if I don't explain it now, I'll just say the following, because the republican culture budget is not God-knows-what. Somehow there's always money. There's no ransom for books, but there are, gentlemen, 340, and maybe 360 million for the Milan Edict, from some current, some budget reserve from the finance ministry. Now let me ask you - should local self-government behave rationally, responsibly, to save, not to pay everything not necessary, which is not legal obligations, and where do those 250 luxuriant, unique costumes for the Aida opera and that magnificent amphitheater building in Vimination are paid? Who decides what is necessary, what are priorities, what is important and where should be saved? You know what, all of this reminds you of one theatre play, and especially from this direction post-modern, there's a lot of improvisation, a lot of experiments, a lot of genre mixing, but in that play, I also wanted to tell our colleagues from SNS, there are some of the same actors who have been present in previous performances, or in previous mandates and previous governments. They changed theater costumes, changed masks, but they're the same people. So I'm telling you, what's happening to us really looks like a theater show and a genre change. It started out as Woodville. Woodville was when we adopted the budget. It was fun, it was great expectations, it was fireworks. It's not the first act, we're in a tragedy, an ancient drama, and I don't know how we're gonna end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17102	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17103	In order not to be dramatic, or to speak again in an emotional dictionary, rather than in a language of fact, I would ask the following questions that deny actually what you were talking about. It's a simple question -- how culturers are financed today, while these laws haven't been passed yet. When you say "culturals," you're probably thinking about Athels 201, the Belgrade Drama Theatre, the Terrace, the museums, the galleries. Second, how do you finance kindergartens today? How do you finance all the activities you mentioned today? Is there any money for that? There is. My question is, are pensions paid to the poorest pensioners? They pay off. Do you know what the results of the first four months are in the financing of Belgrade City? Incomes 26.5 billion dinars, expenditures 22.8 billion. Suffice 3,760,000. What do I want to tell you? What I'm saying is that all that the city of Belgrade is funding today, it's going to be able to finance tomorrow, because with this funding of all these necessary things, there's still a surplus in the accounts. How much does the City of Belgrade keep money in banks today, in accounts? Are budget funds used to improve the standards of teachers, to finance theatre programmes, or are they being given to banks to make money on interest? How much interest does he get and what banks he keeps funds in? I expect an answer from you, because this surplus certainly doesn't stand. The banks currently have 17 billion dinars of local self-government in their accounts. I'm not saying we don't need any extra funds to stick to banks, but let's be realistic. Belgrade, if it lacks money, will not be missing because these laws are being adopted, because it lowers the income tax, because parafiscal taxes have been lifted, because the company's shoemakers, hairdressers and everyone else and abortions have been abolished, of course, but because the City of Belgrade has no people capable of developing it. There are no people who are able to put into function untapped city building land, that a lot of crying stands empty. Ask yourself why the Višnica mall "Plaza" was not built and built in Kragujevac. It's the same investors. Ask yourselves. You certainly don't know that. I don't blame you for that. Ask yourself why this hotel "Yugoslavia" stands. What did they ask investors to do to let them build and renovate it, to put it into office? They didn't offer enough. Is that an excuse? People, the point is, Belgrade has a problem with governance. There is a problem with management for the simple reason that all capital projects are financed with guarantees from the Republic and the Chinese bridge Zemun-Borch and we supported all other projects, and all that the City of Belgrade needs to do was actually expected to fall from the sky. While that sky was Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas could be seen as Belgrade's great savior. Now that that's come off and you're left with him for some reason, it's now more than clearly the most indemnified city with 60% of the debt compared to the current annual incomes. I speak in a relative sense, not absolute terms. I'm not talking here. It is clear that Belgrade is the largest, our capital and should have absolutely the biggest debt, but in a relative sense it has the largest amount of debt. The biggest, convincing one has Belgrade. What do I want to tell you? The fact is, and that's what the MPs said today, that the situation is not easy, but it's impossible for the burden to be borne only by the republican administration. They also have to bear the burden of municipal administrations. Why? Because we live in the same country. It can't be bad in one place, it can't be bad in another, it's impossible. The way out of this situation, to illustrate spending both in the Republic and in the cities, the amount of money that is realistically available. To give up certain things that are not necessary and to be spent more rationally, to reduce subsidies to municipal enterprises, to reform, to stop people from being admitted to the administration because of the benefit of citizens if administrations are constantly increasing, but only democracy is growing. Of course, let's do everything to make it easier for investors to get to building permits, so that more people can hire and then most of the income tax from new employees stays right in municipalities and in the Republic. It's fiscal decentralisation. Money transfer, but a commitment transfer. I'm transferring money without a transfer of responsibility is not fiscal decentralisation. Money in terms of how much it remains remains remains in local self-government. I'm asking a question in a situation where much more money was in local self-government until today, why, here you are in culture, I must say that I appreciate what you did in that area while you were in charge of it in the administration of Nenad Bogdanović. But I'm asking, are the people at the Athele 212 satisfied? Are they satisfied at any Belgrade theatre? If they are before changing these laws, then you're right. I'm afraid not. It's easy to make excuses in some law changes. I repeat once again to make it clear to everyone, it's not the Ministry of Finance's intention, nor the militia bisic who left because the woman here sits here all day, I'm not telling you, some came at noon, the woman sat down this morning from ten o'clock, I let her go home. You didn't give us those receipts, but our intention at no time was to raise the citizen's property tax for a single dollar. The idea was to increase tax on property by legal persons from next year as compensation due to the suspension of fees for the use of city building land. One thing, they won't pay to pay the other, and that's a debate that's been under way for a year in a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, and that's a proposal by the local self-government itself. The fact that we downloaded our bill of amortization. It's one of the only changes in physical faces. I do not want it to lead to confusion and that tomorrow someone is saying that they do not know how to increase the rate, change zooming in with their decisions and say – it is done by the Republic Government. We're not going to change that, that's one reason why, given that there's no equal responsibility for citizens in all cities, that some are willing to put marketing ahead of citizens' interests, which they've shown many times and not to have any dilemmas, we're not going to lay down a single letter in the current Law on property that refers to property tax in physical persons. Once again, we will propose to the Committee on Finance and Economy to return to law and depreciation in order to avoid abuse by some mayors who would try to use it for political purposes, because it would indeed be inappropriate and we will not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17104	Gorica Mojovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17105	Mr Dinkic and other colleagues, didn't it occur to you today in all these discussions concerning the character and work of Dragan Gilas that you have in some way offended the citizens of Belgrade who voted for him and in large numbers. That you had declared them ignorant, that you had declared them fools, that they did not know whom they were choosing. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Dinkic, today you said on several occasions that you in the Republic register have as many as I think some 140 billion dinars, and now you're criticizing because you have to pay your salaries, pensions, etc. Now you're criticizing the City of Belgrade and you say there's a surplus, why there are, say a billion and a half. I haven't been in Belgrade for five years, I can't give up any data right now, so I guess Dragan Gilas has someone to pay salaries in both municipal services and cultural institutions and kindergartens. I must say, you've seriously resented me for such a terrible replacement of thesis. So no one said there would be no pensions in Belgrade. After all, they're not paid by the city's register. That children's protection will not be paid in Belgrade, and then salaries will pay the city and pay them regularly. I've listed all those programs and very precise, five grand for pensioners past those minimum pensions that, right now, maybe thanks to these measures, you'll be able to pay them off. I was talking about projects for pregnant women, for maternity, for babies, for children, for students, for textbooks, all programmes that are financed beyond what is the legal obligation of the city of Belgrade, and, with a large transfer of funds in reverse from the city, or local self-government to the republican level, it is a question of survival, not only Belgrade, believe me, and Black Grass. The fact that we saw those tables, including Black Grass -- nominally at least, Belgrade is the largest and will lose the most money, to run out of the most money. But when a little one, like Black Grass, takes away a little bit of what's in the budget, it's too much for him. (President: Time. ) Therefore, they will pay for all local self - administrations. There's something else I need to tell you. I think there's been a lot of bids today with Belgrade's duties. I don't really know what was said anymore. I think Mr Babic first said – 450, then Arsic, quoting his colleague, said - 960, etc. Indeed, once and for all – Belgrade is responsible for about 400m euros. (President: Mrs Mojovic, third minute. I'm sorry. How much is Kragujevac in charge?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17106	He's got Mr Dinkic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17107	I just said that if Belgrade had achieved a surplus in the first four months of 3.8 billion dinars, it means that on the same incomes and expenditures, it would have had a surplus of 11.4 billion, with all obligations towards kindergartens, towards pensioners, with everything you've mentioned. Given that by reducing the income tax and increasing the tax income, it will be reduced by double the amount of money that will be given to Belgrade as income, there remains room if the city is well managed to leave for investment, while all these investments, i.e. activities, remain unchanged. I'm just saying, you shouldn't use this law as an excuse, if there's incompetence in managing the city.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17108	Mr. Milivoevich, you're my next on the list. I have only reported Mr Dusan Obradovic, Mrs Lucic is next, after Mr Milivojevic, you have two minutes in total for the DS parliamentary group. Who wants you, I don't care? Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17109	"My God, the great wonders, when they descend across the country of Serbia, to turn over and become a judge, there are not the princes, nor are they for the sake of the Turks an emigrant, but rather the work of poverty is a paradise that the fine can't give. "This is how the "Buna to Dahija" started in 1804, and this is how it was sung, forgive Mr Dinkic, and these tax laws, which I will ignore your presence, because we stood together on the stage on October 5th and this is how this rebellion begins that will start a set of tax laws prepared by SNS and new Serbian Dahija Aleksandar Vukic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zorana Mihajlović and Tomislav Nikolic. These are the people behind these tax reforms, tax laws, budgets, budget rebalances and this economy, and that's what it looks like when in an empty room where there are no SNS MPs on the right, trust the management of the economy. You hide them now that they are not in the room, that you are not standing behind this because these are your laws, your budget projections and your way of running the Serbian economy. Jabe says Ivica Dacic that you swallowed the biggest frog, because first of all, I'm not sure it's a frog, and secondly, it's as if it's spicy when I see the budget, crocodiles to swallow every day you won't justify yourself to the citizens of Serbia, because, my dears, you don't have to vote for this. How are you going to get back to Kruševac to my mayor, Bratislava Gasic, and tell him, we stole three million euros from you? I'm from Kruševac, Mr Dinkic, doing a budget projection, 220% is before this change you announced a burden in some parts of the city, and 80% is a minimum tax increase. In Šapec, between 120 and 200% is an increase, we did a serious projection with people from the tax administration. I've got a cure for everyone, sew leather coats like 1944 and 1945, including 1946, and all taxes will be paid. Only sheep can cut their hair as many times as you want, but only once can they get dressed, remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17110	Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17111	Time will pass, so it will be seen whether and where taxes on property will increase for citizens or not. I'm telling you, as far as citizens' property tax goes, no letter in the law will be any different than it is today. For you, there is only one sentence, poetry is fine, but the drastic difference between Zoran Djindjic and you were with the current man who is with you, you will understand that sooner or later.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17112	Replica, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17113	I can understand why the previous speaker, not Minister Dinkic, but a fellow MP, does not like Boris Tadic. I can understand why she loves Dragan Gilas, but I can't understand why she doesn't like Alexander Vukic? If it wasn't for Alexander Wolf, he'd never be an MP again. Never should Dragan Gilas change former ministers if it wasn't for Alexander Vukic, it would still be just a number on the list and he doesn't need to tell us "The beginning of the rebellion on the Dahija" and recite, because we've learned that in elementary schools, but we know who the Dahiji are, but what's the biggest problem, we don't know only us, the prosecutors know, the police, and soon the Serbian public will know. Because of those Dahis who have been dragging their hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens for years and putting them in their own pockets, we now have to pass unpopular laws. Who defends unpopular laws and who attacks them? Those who attack them are most often and most responsible for this, and those who are allegedly very concerned about culture, that the Law on Public Procurement in Culture cannot be implemented, are the same ones who spent two billion and 200 million dinars from the budget of the Republic Health Protection Fund as the Apothecary Institute in Belgrade. I'm saying, they're exactly the same, because in a chair culture it was the subject of public procurement and curtains, computers, table, even that was the subject of public procurement in culture, which is why the law was not respected. Now you're talking about how you're the protectors of Serbia. Since you protect Serbia, the people have been growing poorer and poorer. Time passes, yours even faster, and ours is yet to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17114	Replica, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17115	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, the honourable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fellow Members of mine you've replicated, your budget is both hidduk and your laws are hiduk, but don't act like hiduks from Branislav Nusic's characters, or from the novel "Hyduci". There's a guy named Sima Gluvac, so when the professor asks him who the fathers of Serbian literacy are, and he says -- the Kosovo battle was on June 15th 1389 on an old calendar. Then they ask him further after a few hours of geography, and he fits biology. They ask him further – what are the hooves, and he answers with whom Serbia is bordering. That's how you behave. All those awkward questions you're pretending like you haven't heard them, and all the things nobody asked you, you answer for yourself. I understand that model of radical behavior, because you're a debt expert. Ask Tomislav Nikolic if the Radicals have finally returned the loan he took in the presidential campaign in front of the SRS, call your former friends and ask, excuse me, how do you repay that loan? Here, now we're gonna help you, we're gonna get there, we're gonna borrow, we're gonna graduate, we're gonna finish college, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, we're gonna get it, You may understand poetry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, but you're not poets. If you know something to sing, it's the swan song of your political careers, because the time that comes also slowly affects you, but it doesn't forget for a while. I remember very well the last time you exercised power, Serbia was in a democracy up to its neck and so much in debt. As for the DS leader, I will never give up any of these, I will respect all the presidents I have chosen by my will, as Mr Dinkic will never give up that time I spent on stage with you in Serbia fighting those with whom some of you are now. I was also with Ivica Dacic in the coalition and that's the same time I can't give up, but I did it with deep faith that we're changing Serbia for the better. I'm not sure that with these people you're with right now, Serbia can be seen for better, although I believe in your potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17116	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17117	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my colleague has no reason to worry about the SRS and its debts because you paid off their debts. You covered all the loans in exchange for them to spit on Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. (Gorica Mojovic, from the place: How are we theirs and not ours? ) That is why you have them because you hoped after the election that you would succeed in forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so you have raised a loan from the Vojvodina Development Bank that you can't repay now, otherwise you would never return it and your Bojan Pajtic would never release the note to you. Don't blame the SNS for that. Speaking of hiducia, the biggest hiducia in the last year and a half was Agrobanka. Heiducki was kidnapped, hidducked and stolen, but not as Robin Hood, but exclusively for his pockets. What's in the Development Bank? Why are you talking about that, the hiducia? We now bring these laws to remove the damage you have done, that's what this is about. So don't be so full of your mouths of good desires for the Serbian people, you've made him sick, you've made him sick, you've made him sick, you've made him sick, you've made him sick, you've made him sick, you've made him sick, you've made him sick. You've ruined everything you've touched. As I've said many times, it's not hard for this government to be any better than yours. It's just enough not to steal and it'll be a hundred times better. That's why you lost the election and don't blame us for it, even though you spent more money on only one loan than the SNS for the entire election.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17118	Replica, Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17119	I'll give up on this replica, Mr. President, but I'll certainly use the right two minutes to say one more thing. If Nusic got out of the grave and saw you, I think he'd write "Hyduke the second part," it wouldn't be comedy, but tragedy because you've made this country a tragedy. You'd be very exotic characters of some of you in that novel or this tragedy or whatever you want to call it a literary act that would come from the misdeeds of your political past. When I said I would not vote for this, here is my colleague, Miodrag Djidic, from Kruševac, and he will not vote for these proposed laws, but I do not know how other colleagues from Kruševac will vote for those laws, because those of your mayor, and my neighbour Bratislav Gasic, are taking three million euros, in a city where G 17 plus has not crossed the censorship, but we will vote against it because we think it is bad for Krusevljani to take three million euros from the city budget, and to raise taxes and impose on my neighbours, friends and relatives. Again, it does not work, neither does the URS, nor the G 17 plus, nor Mladjan Dinkic, it is you from SNS, Aleksandar Vukic, Ivica Dačić, Tomislav Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zorana Mihajlović. I can't, Ivica Dacic, as an SPS, forget the press conference, Zorana Mihajlovic, she wanted to burn herself, kill herself when she read that the budget deficit is so much and that the debt rate is over 45%. Now at 65%, smiling on TV, every day a new haircut, a new set and a story that Serbia is getting better, only this is the wallet that Serbian citizens cannot experience. She may be better off personally to you, but the citizens of Serbia believe she isn't. I'm not telling you because I don't love you, because I hate you, I tell you first of all because I love Serbia, because I love my hometown of Kruševac and I want good for all the citizens of this country. I'm just warning you, don't learn from our mistakes, learn a little from colleges that don't buy diplomas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17120	Replic on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17121	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some of these replicas that come from DS colleagues look like those objects that we all have in the house, those monkeys with closed ears, eyes, mouths, only when they start to mention the affairs they're getting in court epilogues at the Agrobank, at the Vojvodine Development Bank, Azotara, former ministers, convicted ministers, colleagues from the DS expect us to be those monkeys who are going to close their mouths, and they're closing their eyes and ears better on such things. It can't be like that. What happened in the past happened in the past. I am the first of those to say that there must be no court of justice from this congregation. We don't have a mandate to be prosecutors, or judges, or lawyers, or anything, it'll be done by the institutions of the system, but I don't want to cover my eyes and ears and close our mouths for that kind of thing and that kind of thing has a name. I'm sorry that the reformed DS didn't really reform and she didn't realize some things and she learned. Last year, in the election campaign, we heard all sorts of horrible, disgusting, fictitious false things about Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. You saw what the May 20th and May 6th elections said last year. They said that the citizens of Serbia, who are so full of your mouth, don't believe you anymore. Instead of learning something, you moved on, the government of the Republic of Serbia formed. What did you say? There won't be any bread, there won't be this. We're in isolation again. Serbia has never had a greater reputation in the past 12 years than it has now. When she was elected here in this House, Governor of the National Bank, Mrs Tabakovic, what did you say? Inflation into madness, the course of the euro will be unknowing. Never more stable course, we saw, we heard from Mr. Secretary that he said inflation in March of the month zero, what about that? Now you're going on again, let's throw aside everything that's been done and all those public opinion research that says that you're going down, that you're sinking, that the citizens don't believe you. Let's look at everything the elections said in Kovin, Zrenjanin, Srbobran. Wherever the elections were, they said Serbian citizens no longer believe you, stop scaring the people, scare the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17122	Thank you. Mr. Milivojevic, you do not have the right to reply because you cannot speak for the party, Mr. Stefanovic can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17123	I didn't want to hurt the Rules of Procedure over these monkeys, but if you want, we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17124	You can hurt the Rules of Procedure, but you can't do the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17125	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. So there's no need to violate the dignity of this house, no matter how fiery our discussions are. The Democratic Party, however, is one serious political party. I understand that legacy when here in this House was sung in short T-shirts, when music was playing from the phone, when it was pounding into the benches, when it was tied up with chains so that security wouldn't take you out, but let's not bring parliament back to the fungi. However, we are trying to get this parliament out of that glare that was stuck in the 1990s, so we can give it back some dignity and reputation. Maybe we'll have 2%, 3%, 1%. If you want to change Serbia for the better, don't bother because you have power over it, but first go from changing yourself for the better, and then you'll change Serbia for the better. Serbia cannot change for the better if you do not change with it. That was my basic message I wanted to tell you. Don't mind me, nothing personal, extremely well-intentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17126	The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17127	Blame the hook, the wrong tree. Mr. Colon who spoke a little bit, let's measure ourselves. Here, we'll discuss elections in Serbia, and we'll discuss elections in Belgrade and Vojvodina. Come on, if you dare. You're the only party that talks about the election, but when they get close, shut up. Let's measure. Here, in two days we will be measured in Koserić, in nine days in Zemun. There'll be more municipalities. Let's measure ourselves and see who the people trust and who they don't trust. When you mention Nusic, remember "Twilight Time". That's what you did to Serbia. You should read that novel. That's what you did here. Never again has the citizens escaped from Serbia, but during your rule. Our villages are empty. There's no dog to bark at a man. It's not yesterday, it's three, four, five years ago. But there are enough of those who are left, who told you a year ago that you can't do it anymore and they'll tell you again in a year and four and five. Don't be so comforted and don't say any more ugly things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17128	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17129	I won't be long. There's a lot of things said. I'm reporting from a member of 107 for the sake of truth. I think it should be a task for all of us to raise the level and reputation of the Assembly. This Assembly is not just ours, this is the Assembly of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand that desire or that desire and that it's only on one side. There is only one side and only one person is ready and able to exercise power and improve the reputation and everything to be just them and no one else, as if no one else exists in Serbia. I will ask a question – is the reputation of Serbia and parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia raised by a vote from Bodrum? Neda Arneric? Who was the head of the parliamentary group at the time? Is it rising by voting from Athens? Whether this raises the congregation’s reputation. Don't demagogy. Don't be full of mouths. Well said, we were wrong. Any good will and good suggestion is good and acceptable, but not with so many butters on your head, with such things in the past that we now build the reputation of the congregation and that it is someone else. Maybe I'm more firey because I believe what I'm saying and nothing's written to me. I say what I feel, what I represent, what SNS views are, and I've been here since the first SNS breath, and I'll always say that because I believe in what this Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, because I trust Alexander Vukic, President of the SNS, no matter how much it hurts you. We have something to be proud of. Don't measure how many times we said that name and name. We'll talk to him a million times because we have something to be proud of and we'll do it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17130	Mr. Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17131	I'm giving up my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17132	He's giving up on words. The next registered speaker is MP Borislav Kovacevic. Is he here? No, I don't. ) Next reported is MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17133	I've been patient for 14 hours listening to all the things I've had to hear. I'm just surprised and frustrated by the speeches I've heard from some. I couldn't believe that someone on this side was moving some boast, talking about haughtiness for 15 minutes, and that person was asleep in the evening with empty pockets on his aunt's couch, and when he woke up, he had 12m euros in his account. If that's not arrogant...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17134	Mr. Risticevic, please, we are now talking about the laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17135	Mr. President, I'm sticking to the agenda at least 50% more than all the speakers have ever held before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17136	I absolutely appreciate it. Knowing that you always do, I ask you to be now the best example of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17137	I've heard all kinds of stories here about breaths, about different characters from the book "Hyducci." There's nothing I haven't been listening to, and now I'm going to talk a little bit about the reasons why these tax laws are being passed. The question is, would these tax laws be passed if, when we arrived, we had acquired a land of order. By the amount of contaminants that came from the opposite side, an uninvited man would say that we came here in a state with no problem at all, a state that didn't have, and it had, like, 36 billion foreign debt, a state where unemployment has only jumped 350,000 in the last four years. Now these 350,000 people, of course, don't pay their contributions, and that's why we're changing this law. Those 350,000 people would only earn a billion euros in contributions to 700m euros and it would not be necessary to amend these laws. What I've heard from those who've been talking about business, about taxes, which, in life, I have to say, they haven't had any economic results, they almost didn't turn the rubber on the tap, they'd think that when we came to power that we'd ruined everything. These laws would not have been passed if we hadn't found huge debts, huge deficits, if we hadn't found 370,000 newly unemployed people in Serbia, that only 44% of the working population had worked, that 900,000 jobs had been missing in Serbia since 2000, that without the pensions of 320,000 people over 65 years old, that there were over 500,000 pensioners whose pensions were 13,000 dinars, that 180,000 people had been found working and were not receiving personal incomes. So, I'd believe all that, in their objections if we hadn't found the general mess. We heard some song that was mentioned here. I think they'd be best suited to the song, "Sleep well, Nana, everything's been robbed." What the eye saw, the left hand paid to the right pocket. Maybe we wouldn't have to change these laws if the former regime hadn't made a private business out of public functions and public affairs. I don't know what those breaths are. Most likely, it's meant for those of Belgrade's nahya, for the mayor, for Gangul. Could it have been Gilas? Perhaps it was thought of Jesic and his 116 square-square apartment in Vienna that they said wasn't true? Perhaps you mean the 937m euros their party president earned the moment he came to public office in the next five years? I'd love to hear what he had when he made almost a billion dollars. When we got here, it wasn't from what was earned, it was from the man in charge. I'm sure all the social property was sold. We're constantly ironing their deficits. They say that these laws skin the citizens, forgetting that they have already skind them several times. These laws we are now passing are the result of their economic concept based on foreign banks, on foreign trade chains, on the sale of foreign goods, on the overthrow of customs duties. Their economic policy led to this, that they sold almost all the factories that had monopoly, cigarette factories, cement plants, brewery, oil processing. They sold telecommunications and spent all that money. The rest of the property was sold to their tycoon friends, and what was wrong, it was left for poor citizens through tax support. Today they resent these laws, although they have constantly, not only for four years, but for the last 12 years, they have taken nine years from the poor and given to the rich. What misery and poverty are in Serbia, it is almost remarkable to speak. The Serbia we found was a completely derelict country where two factory chimneys, a country without production, a country where lies, fraud, fraud, etc. An attempt to replace lost jobs with foreign investment is merely a continuation of the devastating economic policy run by the former regime. These foreign investments come because we are a cheap workforce and then poor citizens have to pay subsidies to firms to be a labour force to foreign investors. A thousand employees of an employee working with foreign investors lost 9.5 employees in small and medium-sized enterprises. It was their economic policy, it was the economic policy of propalovic. Speaking of "Hyducci" there's another character called "Trta-Det," who was driving a gondola, making burgers and being pretty greasy. I think that those who have made dry wood out of our economy and resent it that nothing can be drained from it anymore, those who have left 550,000 people in the public sector, and in production, the number of workers is being led to 300,000 people, today they resent us for their mistakes. Speaking of profit laws, I have to say I can't vote for that law. For the simple reason that agricultural land is classified as property, as the basis for the property tax, and now someone who has 15 hectares should pay almost 600 euros in property tax, on agricultural land to farmers at this point after the dry year and after the collapse we had cannot withstand it unless the amendment corrects the Law on profit tax and agricultural land is excluded from the profit tax, I cannot vote for such a law. I think we must break up with the devastating economic policy left by the government of the former regime, simply invest money in agriculture and food industry, and that the former regime instead of making a 600m-euro dubiose in Agrobanka and Vojvodina Development Bank and that it made one functional bridge for 50m euros, and not that of 450m euros that they invested in agriculture, that they bought a stock fund, that they bought 500 000 cows today would have almost every year a billion of social products and thus regained honor and dignity, not only to the Serbian peasant but also to the Serbian worker. Instead of being done, they won't forgive us for their mistakes. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17138	Mr. Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that today there was a set of tax laws on the agenda, and on the other hand, as if there was a question on the agenda – where this ship is sailing. A ship that has been flimsy for many years on all sides of the storms and storms that had neither the steering wheel nor the steering wheel, a ship called – Serbia. To my joy and to the joy of the citizens of Serbia, the ship now has both the helm and sails in a quiet port. I would return to the topic, as a continuation of the initial reforms of Serbia's tax system, which is the backbone and the most significant part in the smooth and normal functioning of the state and its bodies, and all in order to create a functional, efficient, and, above all, a thrifty state, in line with the established fiscal strategy, the proposed set of changes in tax laws aims to increase the rate of collection, a more even and fairer burden on taxpayers, the discharging of entrepreneurs and small businesses, the unifying of payment obligations on the basis of taxes, the stable financing of the PIO Fund. A whole set of proposed changes and supplementation of tax laws can best be seen through the following proposed measures, a reduction of taxes on earnings from 12% to 10%, an increase of the non-taxable amount of earnings from 8.766 dinars to 11,000 dinars, a price for flat-rate taxation from three million to six million dinars, increased contributions from PIO from 22% to 24% and one instead of 35 payment bills. The proposed changes allow for improving the tax of fairness, reducing administrative costs, applying income tax as well as reducing tax evasion attempts. The changes in the property tax law significantly improves tax fairness since tax treatment of property owned by natural persons is extended to legal persons as well. The introduction of e-business and modernisation under the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration will make it much easier and cheaper for the transfer, control and collection of taxes. Tax laws must be transparent and tax evasion is reduced to the least possible, because if we expect citizens to keep their pensions and salaries as they are on a regular basis, on the other hand, individuals should not be allowed to become rich in secret or to export money to tax credits. It is estimated that this set of tax laws generates savings of around 1.7 billion at the level of full application, among the flatulents, the annual savings of increasing the tax amount from three to six million dinars, which is about 200,000 dinars per entrepreneur per year. A large number of economists and economic analysts believe that these measures will not significantly affect the increase in labour demand, and believe that the real effects would reduce earnings from 65 to 50%, but also require an increase in the value of the tax. Tax cuts of 2% and an increase in the untaxable amount of salary to 11,000 dinars will reduce local self-government revenues on an annual basis. That's true. The Fiscal Council welcomes the amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. And these changes will restore the fiscal balance between the Republic and local levels of government. It is also believed that these changes can deepen imbalances between local self-government itself. At the end of what I would point out, given that we have moved away over time, I have referred two amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, all in order to make tax returns fairer and more transparent, i.e. the principles of tax justice. I believe that in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Income Tax, in a member who speaks in which cases no income tax must be paid, a new attitude must also stand – financial assistance to natural persons who serve in the country and abroad at the level of the actual cost of treatment, documented by the medical institution's accounts which has performed the treatment. I cite this for the reason that, under the applicable law that the taxpayer received for his or her family member's treatment, income and positive legal regulations have been taxed on citizens, particularly the sick and severely ill, forced primarily to be treated abroad. If they had money for treatment, otherwise they wouldn't have asked for help from others, so we come into an absolute situation that the company, for example, provided the women with money for the treatment of their husbands, the treatment was made, taxes and contributions to personal income paid, the security citizen reported incomes, provided bills on executed health institutions and made bank accounts and received a solution to pay income tax. I'd say his only income was that he stayed alive, and that he paid the tax he had to borrow and settle his obligation. I believe that cases like this must be equated with attitudes under the law, where social and humanitarian aids are freed from the obligation to pay taxes on the income of citizens. What led me to point out this problem was that I had the honour of getting acquainted after a bone marrow transplant with members of the 9th and 85th applicable income tax law of citizens and that my wife paid income tax after deduction for the 2012 fiscal year, as if we had bought an apartment on Dedinj, not money spent on treatment. So others wouldn't go as I did, this is the way I wanted to make this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17140	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am concluding the Rules of Procedure on a joint principled search. We move on to the laws in paragraphs 1 to 6. We're moving on to the next joint single search. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business and Prof. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, I have also called on the sittings of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Vesna Hrljac Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Business. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 7 to 10 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170a of Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan for the Water Supply Programme for the Trans-European Water Treatment of Medium-sized Areas in Serbia amounting to 46m euros between KFW Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules on Origination of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17141	I'm just going to briefly explain these first two proposals, since they're the most important ones. The first is a 500m-dollar loan from the Russian Federation to support the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's a very favourable loan, because the interest rate is fixed at 3.5% a year, and the repayment period is 10 years, including the two-year period. What is important is precisely that fixed interest rate and it is about two percent lower than the interest that could be gained by issuing ten-year bonds on the international financial market. So it's about very favourable conditions. As far as the German Development Bank's loan is concerned, it is a loan envisioned by the 46m-euro budget this year. It is intended to build a system for water supply, collection and treatment of wastewater in cities with a population of between 50 and 200 000, which have ready planning documentation and appropriate feasibility studies and which are interested in entering this programme. Just to point out that so far, for these conditions for participation in the German Development Bank programme for the construction of these systems, the towns of Vranje, Užice and Kruševac have met the criteria. This does not mean that other cities will not be included, but these three, therefore Vranje, Kruševac and Užice, have already qualified, expressed their readiness. Also, this contract includes a donation of about 15m euros from the German development bank of the EU, which will help to make appropriate studies and implement this project as efficiently as possible. That's it. Thank you. If there are any questions about other ratifications. I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17142	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? I don't know how to treat your application because I don't have a letter from a parliamentary group saying you're an authorised representative. Mr. Palalic signed it? Here, we'll allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17143	Thank you, Mr. President. I only had a few questions since I was preparing for this point, but the minister had already answered something. I wonder how local self-government can be reported for this water system construction competition and wastewater treatment facilities, of course, which have ready documentation. I saw it, they've got three. Is there a competition they should apply to? Is there still funds or are these three cities planned to finish everything, since we've already been under one programme to build a wastewater treatment plant? Simply, the Ministry of Environmental Protection did not agree to this project, although we have almost prepared documentation. I just wanted to ask you to answer me – how and in what way can we compete with our project, and then if proper documentation, to be funded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17144	The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17145	The finance ministry is in charge of the project only to determine financial conditions. I will ask you this question of whether the entire project is exhausted from these three cities or if there is room for more cities, because it is quite certain that, given that the interest rate is only 2% on the annual level, and the repayment period is 15 years, with three years beginning, that it is a very favourable loan. I'll give you an answer Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-24-0.u17146	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they still want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 7 to 10 of the agenda. We're working on Monday at 13.00 hours.
