ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26638	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Olgica Batic, Sasa Dujovic, Vladimir Marinkovic, Ivan Bauer and Gordana Comic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry, and Natasa Milidragovic, deputy head of the Department of Normal Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior Secretariat. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 6, 7, 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda under points 6, 7, 18, 19, 20 and 21, and before the opening of a joint principle and single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group, about which you received details about the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on Detective Action, the Proposal for a Law on Private Security, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and the Republic of Austria on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy in Vienna from 1 June 1993, the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the modification and extension of the validity of the ICMPD signed Agreement on the establishment and operation of this body from 27 March 1996, the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the amendments to the Agreement establishing and the work of the ICMPD signed on 26 April 1996, as well as the proposal for the third amendment of the Agreement establishing and the work of the ICMPD of 25 June 2003 between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia. Ivica Dacic, Prime Minister and Interior Minister, does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26639	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say a few words about the laws that lie ahead of you, whether these two laws regulate private security and detective activity, or the ratification of these four international agreements. In 2009, the Republic of Serbia defined and set the goal of political action defined in the National Security Strategy, which is to build and establish an effective and coordinated work of a single security system and build a more favourable security environment. In line with the Strategy, national security policy is part of the common state policy and is implemented through a coordinated programme of measures and actions taken by the state to achieve the objectives of national security policy. A growing responsibility in the implementation of internal security policy, together with state and other bodies and institutions, also has private security entities, whose activity covers the protection of the safety of individuals, objects and other material goods not covered by the protection by the competent national authorities. It is of particular social importance that the work of private security entities is fully normative and doctrinally arranged. Of course, in the past four years, a number of efforts have been made in that direction. However, in the private security sector, after placing out of force the Law on the Social Self-Protection System in 1993, which also covered the issue of physical and technical security of facilities and other assets by joint work organisations and other self-government bodies, there remained legally unregulated issues in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia concerning specificities related to the performance of private security. The reality is that in the Republic of Serbia, the private security sector is highly developed. Although there are no precise figures on the number of employees, they speculate with a number of 50,000 employees and almost as many weapons in the possession of these persons. That the areas of providing this type of service today are accompanied by modern trends. However, at this time there is no clearly defined rights and obligations and legal and natural persons, which carry out this specific activity, nor is there a clear role of the competent national authority in overseeing the conduct of private security operations, as set out in other European countries. Starting with the fact that, in order to implement internal security policy, the government of the Republic of Serbia has a special importance to normatively build on the activity of the competent state authorities and other entities, which are engaged in security affairs, has established these two draft laws – a proposal for a private security law and a proposal for a law on detective activity. By passing special laws for security officers and detectives, which would be suitable for our legal system, it is necessary to regulate the way, scope and conditions for carrying out these activities, putting them under greater control by the competent authorities of the state, especially given that the Republic of Serbia is the only state in Europe and the region that has not yet regulated the law. Both bill proposals aim to professionalise these activities, and in order to raise the level of quality of services, counting on their contribution to the overall internal security system, which this significant resource can certainly provide. In order to achieve the highest degree of harmonisation of legal solutions between the representatives of this specific profession and the competent national law enforcement body, which is the Ministry of the Interior, direct co-operation with the Private Security Association and the Association of Detectives of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has been established. This public private partnership enabled all interested representatives of the private security sector to directly participate in the development of legal solutions, through the form of public debates held in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. The private security law provides for four groups of jobs: security of persons, property and business in physical protection, money transport operations and other shipments, order maintenance at public meetings, sports events and other places of gathering of citizens and areas of technical protection. Conditions for licensing are provided for which both legal and natural persons must meet in order to provide these types of services. The proposal for a law on detective activity also ensures through the licensing system that the powers, which this law provides to detectives, are given to persons who meet certain conditions, which contributes to the professionalisation of this activity. The Private Security Act also regulates the way in which private security services are carried out, the powers of security officers, uniforms, the markings and the legitimacy of security officers, the supervision of the work of records and data protection. The law on detective activity, in addition to the conditions mentioned for licensing, governs the authorised and manner of performing the work of detectives, their legitimacy, the supervision of work, the renewal of the licence, the records and the protection of data. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the MPs who have shown great interest in these two draft laws, which speaks of the importance of the subject matter, who, after careful consideration of the texts of the proposal, have given a number of constructive and comprehensive amendments, which the Serbian Government considers necessary to accept. According to the first analyses, it can be concluded that nearly half of the proposals received will be accepted, making a significant contribution to the normative regulation of the private security sector. We believe that the normative rounding of the security sector will contribute to the realisation of the objectives set by the 2009 National Security Strategy, that new legal solutions will contribute to the protection of employees' rights in this sector, as well as their security in the performance of jobs, that service users will be more protected and satisfied with the quality of services achieved, and legal persons registered to carry out this type of activity continue to develop in line with European standards. I will also remind you that the value of the 2008 private security market is estimated to be around 150m euros. The number of registered companies amounts to approximately 3,000 companies. There's no precise data as far as they're concerned. In their work, however, due to unresolved legal regulations, serious abuses of the powers stemming from the nature of these activities have often resulted, with the MUP having no special authority in relation to the holders of these activities, except those of the powers which it has in relation to all those involved in legal traffic and those established in the arms and ammunition regulations. The result of legal irregularities in these activities is relatively common and harsh over-authorisations arising from the nature of the activity, mainly by unregistered organisations and natural persons, of which the number has been seen to be negatively public, to great harm, to the reputation of those companies and entrepreneurs who carry out private security tasks professionally and in the lack of law on this activity in accordance with the applicable national and international standards. I will also remind myself that these laws have been discussed for many years, that the debate began even before I became a minister of the MUP, meaning, even before 2008, that in 2011, the law was in the assembly procedure, but that after certain remarks that came first from the Commissioner for Public Information, the law was withdrawn and that it was again in the procedure following a large number of public meetings and public debates on it. At EU level, there is currently no process of harmonisation of legislation, when it comes to the private security sector. The European Security Services Confederation promotes minimum conditions for the work of private security companies at European level. There is also a rule of private security service, which should contribute to raising the standards of services these companies provide, as well as guaranteeing a high level of professional ethics in the conduct of employees in this sector. However, despite these attempts at soft harmonisation of regulation in this area, significant differences remain in national legislation. The adoption of this law will contribute to the full membership of the national private security association in relevant European and international organisations, in the area of private security and participation in their work. I would like to remind you that members of these confederates are national employers' associations in the private security sector of European states, representing about 10,000 private security companies in Europe with more than 600,000 employees. Private security companies provide a very wide list of services on the European market, when it comes to building security, including nuclear facilities, for example. in Germany and Romania, military facilities, e.g. in Austria, Estonia and Germany, airports such as Austria, Germany, Romania, Great Britain, Sweden, the Netherlands, Greece and France, ports such as Bulgaria and the Netherlands, and even parliaments such as Romania and Bulgaria. I would like to mention that it is the building where talks and dialogue are held in Pristina, which belongs to the Foreign Affairs Service, between Belgrade and Pristina in Brussels, that the building provides private security for a company operating here and here in Serbia. In Belgium, Greece and Portugal, no employment is allowed in a private security company that has been employed in police or security services in the past five years. Again, in countries that need to reduce the number of public sector employees, security, as is the case with us, such a provision would be too restrictive. Different models of surveillance of the private security sector are different. In Greece, Denmark, Hungary and Slovakia fall under the jurisdiction of local police, and in Germany, Italy and Sweden local authorities are competent, the justice ministry is in Luxembourg, Ireland and Great Britain, a special body formed to provide supervision of the private security sector. Most EU countries only have minimum conditions for hiring personnel in these companies, especially when it comes to the need for not being prosecuted, although even this condition does not exist, for example. and Germany or the Czech Republic. There is no uniform approach when it comes to staff training as a prerequisite for working in private security companies. In Spain, a mandatory programme and level of training is prescribed by the Ministry of the Interior, while in Italy it is an internal matter of the company itself. In Denmark, the required fund of lessons moves between 111 and 240, while only 32 are required in France. In Germany, there is a mandatory course for staff in operational operations for at least 40 hours, conducted by the Chamber of Commerce. There are bigger differences when it comes to the use of weapons. Thus, private security employees in Ireland, Great Britain, Denmark, France and the Netherlands are prohibited from owning firearms, while in other EU countries it is allowed. There are also great differences in the rights of employees in these companies to confiscate and deprive the freedom of the person. Thus, in Greece, Slovakia, Slovenia and Poland, they have the right to search and confiscate only at airports, while in France, the Netherlands and Germany do not have such rights and are equated in this respect with other citizens. Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, on the other hand, even allow for the depravity of the person under certain conditions. I have said all of this to draw your attention that there is no single European regulation when it comes to this security sector, but only the principle of basic provisions confirming the existence of one such sector and its significant role in the entire national security system. When it comes to the second part of today's session, it is dedicated to ratification of four international agreements, ratification of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, readmission agreements with Montenegro, BiH and the Police Co-operation Agreement with Macedonia. By ratifying the Agreement on the Establishment and Labour of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, the Republic of Serbia is becoming a member of this international organisation that celebrates 20 years of existence this year, an opportunity to recapture the very important results Serbia has achieved in co-operation with this organisation. This international organisation has focused its work on three key areas of international interest: developing migration dialogue, building capacity in terms of strengthening national and regional capacities in addressing modern migration challenges and research and documenting in order to deepen knowledge on migration and professionalising access to this modern challenge. I will take this opportunity to point out the fact that Kosovo submitted its application for membership in this significant international organisation last year, however, they were rejected and their further co-operation was only made possible within the framework of what was agreed in the previous course of the dialogue when it comes to Kosovo's participation in regional forums. Regarding the ratification of the Readmission Agreement with Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the type models of such international contracts have been intensively for the past years. The countries of the region have not concluded such agreements with each other until now, but have been concluded mainly with EU countries. However, since all the countries in the region are part of the same process, the EU accession process, it is the common interest of the states to conclude readmission agreements among themselves and thus fulfil one of the most important tasks set by the European Commission. Why is this the subject of the European Commission's interest? The reason for the European Commission's interest in the field of readmission is that readmission agreements allow organised, reciprocal and institutionalised return of persons in an irregular situation in another country, in the territory of the country from which they entered, in order to enable them to reintegrate in society later on. It is believed that if countries make an effort to create preconditions for successful social reintegration of returnees, under the readmission agreement, that fewer of these people will decide to leave Serbia again, or a third country and find themselves in an irregular situation in the territory of another country. As regards ratification of the Police Co-operation Agreement with Macedonia, it should be pointed out that, despite the fact that no bilateral agreement has been signed so far, co-operation has taken place very intensively through Interpol, based in Belgrade and Skopje, and is also being achieved through the I 24/7 Information System. With Macedonian police on average, about 1800 police information is exchanged annually, one of the explicit reasons for this co-operation to be formalised. The two ministries have taken steps towards harmonising the text of this agreement that has become subject to ratification. Given the fact that both Serbia and Macedonia are signatories to the Southeast European Police Co-operation Convention, this agreement will provide the basis for further concreteisation and implementation of co-operation provided for by the provisions of the Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given all this I have said and given the need and necessity that the area of private security and detective activity will be regulated in Serbia in principle and in particular, also given the fact that a large number of meetings, conferences, that a public debate is open and conducted, I call on you to support these proposals of the law and so a very important area, which is now unregulated, which employs a large number of people who have the right to now without legal certainty, in the future legally defined application of certain means of coercion, who have the right to use and arms, having regard to the importance of this entire area as a single system, part of the national security system, I call on you to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26640	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Kosanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26641	Thank you. The President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today a joint review of the proposal for a law on detective action, a proposal for a law on private security, four draft laws confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy. At the very beginning, I will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support the aforementioned draft laws. My presentation today in the first part will focus on the proposal for a law on private security and detective activity, and depending on the time, I will also refer to the agreements mentioned. At the very beginning, speaking of the proposal for a private security law, it should be said that this law regulates the mandatory security and protection of certain facilities, businesses and the work of legal and physical persons in the area of private security, the conditions for its licensing, the way in which they operate, and the exercise of control over their work. It is perfectly sincere to say that since the 1990s, we haven't had any law that would regulate this area or the private activity of security, nor the law on physical security, and others here mentioning the law on detective activity, even though all the countries in the environment have long regulated this area. According to the European Conference on Private Security, there are between 50,000 and 60,000 people involved in the business of security of property, people, transport, money, installation of security electronic systems and alarms. It is also estimated that around 600 companies and private security agencies are active in Serbia, and more than 3,000 companies are registered. The strength of the domestic market is estimated at around 6,000 contracts based on public procurement with state institutions and on potential even 8,500 security contracts with private clients. What was very important to me here by preparing for this topic, I came up with data that practically annual this industry is worth 180m euros, almost as much as raspberries and software exports of favourite sizes for comparison in Serbia. When it comes to weapons, it should also be said in favour of the adoption of this law that in Serbia, according to estimates, more than 50,000 people, other than the military and police, carry weapons on a daily basis, so that practically the third armed force in the state is employed by hundreds of private companies involved in providing security services. A little bit later, I'll say what it looks like in the EU about this law, and I'm sure, as you said, that through the amendments we'll fix and about this, carrying weapons, because so far it's supposed to be only a.9 millimeter caliber, and here we're going to put a 7.65 caliber through the amendments, so we're going to improve that law in this part. Although this sector has been growing for years, only now will it be governed by a special law. Through the various gatherings of debates, public hearings, it was heard from the owners of the security company themselves that the problems are many, from agencies that work on black and do not have work licenses, to the fact that they are employed by staff without basic training. The fact that customers first ask, and this is the situation currently in the country, is not only regulated in this area, it is difficult to state, there is no money, how much services it costs, and only after what they get, is it confirmed that due to the lack of precise rules, many companies hire people at black or offer services at other prices just to get engaged. It should also be said that many security workers have not received a salary for months, and it is common that profits are also extremely low. We'll agree that this area is extremely demanding. These people who work, work hard and responsible jobs, so they currently get in a large number of cases less than one euro, although some regulator should be paying about two euros. Of course, there are reasons for that. The economic crisis is just one of the causes of such a low labour price in exceptional, you will agree with me, in the difficult conditions in which these people work, but others, honestly, a more important condition lies in the management policy of the firm, that large profits are achieved through a low labour price. Workers on the other hand don't have the strength to organise their own union. This leads to a logical conclusion that many do not respond to the adoption of the law because by applying it, there would be a tightening of the standard of law, and certainly any excuse that this law would return to the drawer is welcome. Also by regulating this area, it certainly loses most of the state, which could earn the most for the start the non-licence of private security companies. I said earlier, and now I would look back on the laws that it looks like in the EU. First, as I was talking about employment and I would talk about it first, so most EU countries have prescribed minimum conditions for the employment of personnel in these companies, especially when it comes to the need for not being prosecuted. Although this condition does not exist in, say, Germany or the Czech Republic. As far as minimum conditions are concerned, a certain age is required, then citizenship, work experience, or other. They are also different institutions that carry out security checks on these persons, so in the Netherlands only employment companies do them, and the frequency of these checks is different. There is not the same approach when it comes to employee training, as a prerequisite for private security companies. In Spain, a mandatory programme and level of training is prescribed by the Ministry of the Interior, while in Italy it is an internal matter of the company itself. In virtually all EU countries, there is a mandatory type of identification of persons employed in a private-security company in the form of documents. I.D., or uniforms. That's what I was saying earlier about the situation with us, but there's a bigger difference when it comes to the use of firearms. How is that for EU countries? First, private sector employees in Ireland, Great Britain, Denmark, France in the Netherlands are prohibited from owning firearms, while in other EU countries this is allowed. However, there is a big difference in these countries regarding the conditions for the possession of firearms, as well as the types of weapons for which authorisation can be obtained. There is also a big difference in the rights of employees in these companies, to confiscate and deprive the freedom of the face. Thus, in one part of the countries, they have the right to search and confiscate only at airports, while in other countries they do not have such rights, are equated in this regard with other citizens. For example, in Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, face freedom is allowed to be deprived under certain conditions. On the other hand, private security companies provide a very wide list of services on the European market when it comes to security, and I must say that they will come to us at some point. Sure, we'll go that way too, so security is objectively including nuclear plants, for example. in Germany and Romania, military facilities in Austria, Estonia, then airports, ports, and even parliaments, such as in Romania or Bulgaria. These companies provide both transportation of money and other valuables. They provide facial security services, etc., etc. The models of establishing relations between these companies and the public security sector also vary. Otherwise, this sector is potentially burdened with a number of challenges. As a result, national laws often impose restrictions on the transition from one sector to another sector. There are also different models of surveillance over this private security sector. In some countries, it is the jurisdiction of local police, while in others it is within the jurisdiction of local authorities, but in Luxembourg, for example, in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, Ireland and Great Britain, a special body is responsible. I said a number of concrete examples related to European experience, because our goal is to adopt, and you said earlier that through amendments, we will adopt most of the amendments, so our goal is to adopt a good law. Of course, as far as this law is concerned, the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support it. When it comes to detective activity, the proposal for a law on detective activity, at the very beginning, I will say that the Single Serbia Group will vote in favour of this bill, which regulates the work of private persons, then entrepreneurs and natural persons who do the work in the field of detective services, the conditions for their licensing and the way in which they do business and the exercise of supervision of their work. They can all carry out tasks that are exclusively within the competence of the national authorities and apply the operational methods and means that the competent authorities carry out, or apply, on the basis of specific rules. So far, very often there have been serious abuses of powers stemming from the nature of these activities, where the authorities of the MUP could not, in particular, have had powers in relation to the holders of this activity. Indeed, it should be said here that abuses mainly came from unregistered companies or individuals of whom are part of a deep, significant public publicity, to the harm and reputation of those companies and entrepreneurs who do these jobs really professionally. That is why it is necessary to adopt a special legislative solution, which would regulate the area, and given that the state of Serbia is the only country in an environment that has not regulated the area by law. When it comes to this law, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the law in the voting day. It is also necessary for the legislation of the most developed EU Member States to be entrepreneurial and consistent with our Constitution and tradition. In that sense, the future law should certainly be respected. Solutions represented in the legislation of countries from a nearby environment with which we have a similar legal or administrative tradition, heritage and practice. However, here we need to pay attention to concrete solutions contained in the regulations of those countries that have developed standards in this area of Great Britain, Spain or Germany, relying on what this law adopts, and these are also criminal provisions that appear to be necessary. They move within the limits of five thousand to a million dinars depending on whether they are legal or physical, I would not go into detail what this law requires, until the ban on carrying out the work of three months to three years. At the end of all of this above on these two legal solutions, it is important to adopt the quality of the law that will allow for more equal market conditions, the protection of workers' rights, to allow quality control of the state over this sector, and to establish functional co-operation between the state and private security sectors. Now something short on the four agreements mentioned. When it comes to the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, not to read it, because there is indeed enough to read about it, it was founded in 1993 on the initiative of Austria and Switzerland. Its core activity is based on an analysis of migration flows, promotion of the development of a comprehensive migration policy, as well as exchange of experts, and all in order to help countries and institutions on the issue of migration. In practice, it acts as a specialised agency of EU countries and also owns the United Nations statute of observers. Today, the migration center has about 15 members. Until the current co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with these organisations took place through the participation of our representatives in numerous seminars on asylum, migration and visas. The accession process of the Republic of Serbia is seen in the signing of a declaration of intent between international centres for the development of migration policy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, signed on 6 July 2011. Certainly, by confirming this agreement, conditions would be obtained to end the formal approach process and to send a ratification instrument to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Austria by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Serbia. When it comes to the three laws mentioned, agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and the Council of Ministers of BiH will, in short, only say that the basic motive for adopting this legal solution is the need to further strengthen and improve police co-operation between Serbia and the countries mentioned in the environment, in order to combat illegal migration on the other hand. At the same time, it should be said that successful co-operation has been established in the fight against organised crime and the fight against drugs with neighbouring countries and EU member states, while applying EU standards in this area which are one of the preconditions for Serbia's EU accession. At the very end, regarding all the legal solutions, I must say that they are a major step forward and the JS parliamentary group will support these bill proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26642	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26643	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Prime Minister, today are in the process of the draft law on detective activity, the draft law on private security. At the beginning of the discussion, I will refer to the proposal for a law on detective activity, and at first I want to commend the fundamental idea of the legislator, which is to enable citizens to use detective services alternatively in addition to regular judicial protection, but legally, respecting fundamental human rights and the general property security of all entities in society. In Serbia, especially in Belgrade, as the largest city, which for many reasons, including black chronicles, has all the features of the world's metropolis. A certain, not so few people deal with business that falls within the domain of classical detective activity, for example, by tracking people, faces and delivering information about their movements. Therefore, the law that would regulate detective activity was inescapable, because this law, as you yourself said, was repeatedly in the process. The last time in late 2011, which is why I think it's a good thing that this law finally came before the MPs. New Serbia has submitted eight amendments to the legislative proposal and 13 amendments to the private security bill. Our amendments are constructive, some of them technical, and I hope, Mr. Prime Minister, that you will bear in mind what we as a parliamentary group have contributed to the improvement of the law and that you will accept them. In the opening part of your presentation, you said almost 50% of the amendments would be accepted. I will now refer to the provisions of Article 2 of this proposal of the law, which explicitly requires that legal and natural persons engaged in detective work cannot carry out tasks which are exclusively within the jurisdiction of the national authorities, and that they cannot apply the operational methods and means that these authorities are carrying out. Such a distinction is certainly necessary to prescribe a legal standard. Article 6 taxustively prescribes the conditions that a natural person should fulfil in order to obtain at all a licence to carry out these tasks, and are among the basics: higher professional storage, meeting the general conditions for the authorisation of the supply of arms in accordance with the rules on arms and ammunition, psychophysical capacity to carry out these tasks, mastered training, etc. I find it particularly important that such a person fulfils the general conditions in accordance with the law governing the possession and carrying of weapons and ammunition, as well as the medical conviction of psychophysical ability. In order for this activity to be carried out in a transparent and orderly manner, it is necessary for detective firms to have adequate business space in which they will adequately provide information to which they come. This is done by Article 8. It's a bill of law. It is also an important provision in Article 10(2) which prohibits the detective from obstructing the performance of the work in the jurisdiction of the national authorities when processing the data, which also underlines the difference between these persons and the members of the MUP. In this respect, and the provision in Article 12(4) which stipulates that the detective firm is obliged to refuse the conclusion of a service contract if the request by the service user or the conduct of transactions outside its jurisdiction is "only when the conduct of such transactions is contrary to the provisions of other laws and against the norms of public morality". Article 16 clearly defines the situation in which the detective is allowed to use firearms, or physical force. Article 17 defines that the collection and processing of data can be carried out exclusively in accordance with the rules governing the protection of personal data and free access to information of public importance, which is extremely important, given the fact that data collection is precisely the core of the detective's work. The detective is required by Article 18 to immediately inform the police or the competent public prosecutor if, during the course of his work, he finds out about a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty, which is also important by law. Article 23 gives authority to MP officials to verify how firearms are kept and carried, as well as psychophysical ability and the training of a gun-handling detective, which is also extremely important. Art. In the 30th and 32nd, they shall arrange a prescribed principle of data protection obligation to be achieved in the performance of these tasks. Finally, the provision of Article 40 prescribed a deadline for automatic and semi-automatic weapons and ammunition currently owned by a detective company, or private detectives. In view of the general situation in society, I believe that it may be necessary to consider a deadline shorter than prescribed, for example, six months, than the deadline that you provided for by the bill. As far as the proposal for a private security law is concerned, a large number of solutions in this law are intertwined with the solutions in the Law on Detective Activity, which is understandable, given the character and nature of the affairs carried out under this action. As I said, New Serbia has submitted 13 amendments to this bill, so we have also made a good contribution to correcting the law here. I hope you have them in mind when you decide on the amendments. Only the Ministry of the Interior, whose sole responsibility is general security, and hence the area of private security, states, in line with the draft law, the following notor fact: "In the work of members of all possible companies providing private security services, numerous and serious abuses of powers are present, and the members of the MUP do not have special powers in relation to them, except for those general powers relating to all citizens". Unfortunately, we are witnessing a number of unkind events whose main culprits are members of the most diverse security companies, i.e. people who call themselves that, and in essence, it is a big question of what they are actually dealing with. The vast majority of citizens between them and serious criminals are not without reason giving a sign of equality. The figures based on rough estimates of the number of people employed in this sector, especially the amount of weapons circulating in the private security sector, are alarming. It is therefore really necessary to regulate this area by a special law, as has already been done by almost all European countries, including our nearest environment. Article 2.St. 2. and 3. provides that private security services do not fall within the police or other security matters performed by the authorities of the state administration, as is the case with the Law on Detective Activity, an essential distinction. It is also an important provision of Article 7 which prohibits members of private security from dealing with claims. As with detective activity, Article 12 provides for the minimum necessary conditions for doing this job. Article 19 explicitly states that private security jobs, property and business are done in a way that does not interfere with the work of state authorities and does not disrupt the calm of citizens. I made some facts, some important details when it comes to these bill proposals. I'm going to re-absorbed the fact that we've submitted the amendments as a member of the NS Group. When we discuss in detail, we will talk more about the details of these legal proposals. All in all, like I said, I want to commend the initiative and the government that put these laws in the process. I believe that after the adoption of these laws, Serbian citizens will feel safer because the legal proposals, i.e. the proposals that are extremely good in these laws, and I believe that they will regulate the legal system and the state and this part that has been unregulated and thus abolish the legal system of the state. So, for these legislative proposals, the NS will certainly vote when it comes to voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26644	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26645	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SDPS, I will talk about the proposals of only these two laws, the Law on Private Security and the Law on Detective Action. It is quite by chance that as a National MP acting as Chairman of the Committee on Human, Minority Rights and Gender Equality and the Committee on Security Control, I have often been in situations where we have been discussing the rights of citizens and the security of citizens, we have been in the domain of the way in which this specific sector, the private security sector, has grown. We have so far had two draft laws in this area, which due to significant objections and the need to comply, were withdrawn from the assembly of procedures. What's interesting and interesting -- whenever they were withdrawn, elections were called. After the adoption of the Data Privacy Act and the Personal Data Protection Act, it was relatively easier to regulate this area. The sensitivity of this matter is that it is arranged both in private and in public. So a private-public area is an area defined by these laws. Namely, private companies, which provide security services, as business entities do business of course under market rules, but are also significant participants in the security sector. The state, on the other hand, guarantees its citizens both external and internal security. It is the primary obligation of the state to ensure a high level of security that must be provided to everyone. However, privatisation of the security sector has been observed both in developed democratic countries and in transition countries. In Western countries, the privatisation process of this security sector took place, so to speak, from top to bottom, because the armed forces of these countries focused on basic activity, and private companies were entrusted with technical security operations, both facilities and property and persons. There are two main reasons, I would say, for the privatisation process in the security sector. These are: the trend of total privatisation and the end of the Cold War, but also the need to professionalise these relationships. In Serbia today, we have heard this from both the Prime Minister and my colleagues in the discussion before me, and this is clearly seen in the reasoning given by the Government through these laws, there are several thousand registered private companies for the physical and technical security of persons, objects and property. Their establishment has certainly been observed in the 1990s, following the end of the famous 1993 Social Self-Protect Act. Since the area so far, the area of private security, has been regulated in several laws and there has been no record of established private companies dealing with security, it was necessary to propose one such law, which would functionally integrate the area into a significant sector, the security sector. It is right to point out that Serbia is the only country in Southeast Europe that has not specifically regulated the business of private companies for physical and technical security. There is some talk in Serbia today about the problem of conflict of interest due to the fact that often MIP officials work at the same time as private security officers. Such practice, which we have witnessed in previous years, carries a great risk such as the vague chain of command, corruption, control and determination problems, ultimately, the responsibilities of those persons. It is in force, when it comes to Serbia, and the Service Types Regulation, which allows the Ministry to make additional funds available in connection with the primary activity of the ministry, or in line with the tasks that are in the function of security and records in its jurisdiction. For example, I will indicate the transport of certain persons and things, the transport of money, the worth of shipments for banks, etc. On the other hand, the MUP is set out by law to exercise control over the private sector. The law on police does not prohibit police officers from performing out-of-work jobs, as additional work, with police officers unable to perform jobs and self-activities that are compatible with police officers' jobs. In the Police Law, unfortunately, there is no clear status of the private security sector. Most other states prohibit active police officers from working in the private security sector, however, in a small number of countries it is even allowed under conditions prescribed by the laws of those countries. When it comes to EU law, there is no harmonised legal framework in the EU that regulates this private security sector, but is widely accepted standards that are defined as basic guidelines. When it comes to these widely accepted standards in the EU, I will only list some of the most important ones. First, these are, first of all, the public of work, the existence of a central register, as well as general and specific records, an adequate system of controls carried out by state institutions, the use of force, but only in the necessary defence and extreme necessity and in case of only assistance, i.e. the application of the principle of proportionality, co-operation with the police, the limited amount of weapons in private security, the standard covers one half of the employees, the ban on secret recording, the illicit use of automatic and semi-automatic weapons, the issue and withdrawal of work permits, training of employees, wearing uniforms, IDs, etc. The proposals for these laws, which we are talking about today in the assembly procedure, take into account these generally accepted standards of work in the area of private security, so that legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons are foreseen to issue a licence for these tasks, risk assessments, protection of persons and property, planning, designing, supervision and security, transport of money in a work that is not in the jurisdiction of the MIP. General and specific conditions for obtaining a licence are prescribed, as well as the necessary training, i.e. passing examinations in the MUP. It is mandatory, and the law clearly defines the conclusion of a contract with the person to whom the service is provided. Weapon security operations have been regulated with regard to the facilities, the use of certain types of weapons, the quantity of weapons and the supply of the same weapon. In particular, technical protection and use of image recording devices are regulated, then, money transport and value-sends and conditions for escorted vehicles, directorial services at public gatherings and the number of officers employed, depending on the number of employees. The existence and functioning of the control centre accurately established the powers of security officers, as well as the type of means of coercion. When it comes to records, the types of records kept by the Ministry and its contents are prescribed, as well as records kept by legal persons and entrepreneurs, or their content. The data protection department provides data protection rights for data subjects, the supervision is carried out by the ministry and may temporarily prohibit the exercise of activity in the surveillance process. In the same way, the other law we're discussing today, the draft law on detective activity. At the very beginning of this law, it was found that legal entities and entrepreneurs registered to carry out detective activities cannot carry out tasks which are exclusively within the jurisdiction of the national authorities, as well as operational measures carried out by the competent authorities under specific rules. This proposal also provides for the issue of licences by the ministry, then it is determined on which data can be determined, i.e. the obligation to conclude contracts with the user and the content of contracts, the way in which the data are collected and processed, or which data are required to be given to the authority of the state administration. Oversight is also carried out by the ministry with the possibility of measures of temporary banning, i.e. to carry out this action, and in cases provided for by law. Law enforcement can't own a weapon. Only a detective can get permission to carry a personal weapon. It can be said that these two draft laws are an appropriate normative framework to regulate the area of private security and detective activity. In particular, when the debate is on amendments, and we already have the situation that a whole series of amendments have been tabled, I believe, as the promoter himself, Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, Mr Ivica Dacic, will be able and certain improvements will be made, and in this respect are of great benefit to the MPs, who are the applicants of the amendment, for whom the Assembly committees are in charge above all, I think they can give us, and also to the promoter, the remarks heard about these laws from the Commissioner's Office for the Protection of Information against Public Matters and the Protection of Personal Data, as well as the remarks of professors from the Belgrade University and experts from the Centre of Euro-Atlantic Studies and the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy. I'll list just some of the significant remarks that I stand behind both personally and the party I represent, the SDPS. These are objections to the following areas. The law should determine which personal data will be processed, instead of the minister doing so with his act, as proposed in this text of the law. The legal basis for data processing can and must only be the law, while sublegal general acts can only regulate technical and organisational issues of collection, holding, processing and use of data and personality. It's especially important when we have a bad experience with so-called. Sublegal acts. We have a whole series of laws that we have passed in this same assembly over the past years, which predicted that the resolution ministers in this area or in those areas are in charge of sublegal acts within three to six months, and they've been passing and years in some cases, that there are no sublegal acts from the competent ministers, and then these laws, in practice, remain a dead letter on paper. Therefore, their implementation, or application in practice, is not possible. That is why the bill does not even specify what personality data the state authorities are obliged to give to the detective, as well as that this information is necessary to the detective solely for the purpose of doing business under their jurisdiction. With full respect for the principle of proportionality, I would say that we should leave out the indication and processing of the single number of citizens in the reports and in other documents where the indication of that number is not necessary. When it comes to the destruction of the data in question, it would have to be a mandatory official note with the time limit of its storage. The following remarks I would like to point out are that it is not the best solution for the MIP to monitor and to issue licences, because the supervisory and executive functions are being combined, in this case the same ministry - the MUP. There is an explicit ban on private security police officers, and there is no clear difference between security checks and appropriate changes as the terms set out in the bill. For the simplest functions and to perform possible functions in the state administration and in other public services, a popular provision is necessary for a person, other than a citizen of the state of Serbia and other data, to be prosecuted or punished. You don't have that in these provisions, unless you think that under this security check, and that means, but it would remain unclear like this on the first reading. The point is that, as a condition for obtaining a license, indemnity, which I was just talking about, is that particular security check in the Police Act is being transferred to the act of the minister. In particular, in order to ensure that security checks are accompanied by the procedure laid down in the Privacy Policy for access to classified information. In addition, objections are also entitled to work for private security. I don't think it should be conditioned by intervening the expertise, because knowledge and training are of priority. Also, in order for the person conducting the training to have to and only to meet all of these conditions listed for obtaining a licence. The Euro-Atlantic Studies Centre manual, and regarding the area, which is very interesting, public procurement, warns of the danger of awarding contracts to that private security provider offering the lowest price, which usually has cheap labour, poorer training for employees, tax evasion, etc. We know from practice and experience that the lowest price, or offer, does not have to be the best offer. In any event, it is an opportunity for these important issues to be considered through amendments, and I appeal to accept any amendment that removes possible shortcomings in the draft laws, together with the Minister and representatives of the Ministry. By reading the amendments already submitted so far, I see that there is room for the existing text to be corrected, i.e. the amendments of individual honourable fellow Members, whether they are from ruling or opposition parties, to be accepted. Serbia, I would like to remind you at the very end, has adopted a National Security Strategy, which includes private security as part of national security. Other laws, such as the Emergency Act, provide for the involvement of private security to carry out tasks of protection and rescue. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce also established the Private Security Association, which was also discussed by the prime minister, as well as the Public Private Partnership Commission in the security sector. Even the memorandum of co-operation between the MUP and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has been concluded. The government gradually introduces economic policy measures, with the aim of strengthening business control and the application of the Labour, Employment, Safety and Other Laws Act. These draft laws provide for the establishment of expert advice to improve these activities, including representatives of registered private security organisations and detective associations, which will also monitor the application of these laws and point to their good and bad sides. At the very end, I will conclude that after the adoption of these laws, which I believe and which I am convinced that we will have most MPs, Serbia will equally join countries with a clearly defined security system, because security and the rule of law are two key functions for each normal and legal state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26646	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr Dacic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, finally and Serbia is in charge of the private security sector. In the National Security Strategy, a significant element, i.e. the sector is precisely this private security sector in the country's overall security. However, regardless of which we adopted the National Security Strategy a few years ago, Serbia was almost among the three countries, and I think it was the last one, which this area did not manage. In such an unsettled area, it is logical that, least of all, he ruled complete volunteerism. For years, therefore, non-market business has been operating in this area. It's one of the most remarkable features of action in this area. Another thing that has so far been very characteristic of such an unregulated sector is that in a very large number and percentage of employees in this sector have been inadequate, to use that fine expression, dressed, but also compromised personnel, with many aspects. Then, as we know, there was no record of employees and their weapons, or there was no complete or centralized. There is no such thing as approximately accurate, and we heard from the minister earlier, that it is counting on an aproximative number of 3,000 companies in this area, but it is not known which are active at the moment. So far no collection has been regulated, especially not data storage, which is extremely delicate from a security point of view. For that reason, and for other reasons, there have been many violations of civil rights or human rights and freedoms. It's one of the things that also makes it very important that this area is being arranged. Finally, there may be a lot to list, but one of the characteristics of so far's activities in this area has been largely expressed tax evasion, which is also very important for the country. The private security sector across the world is a very significant and legitimate business branch, and this country has not taken care of it. Today we don't have any institutions in a country that had precise, as I just said, records of at least companies, legal persons in the private security sector. Not to mention some other data and records. Because of all this, the law that has been in front of us for some 10 or 12 years, since the initiative to regulate this area, even I think that some four or five governments have been working on this area so far, and finally this government, as many things are definitely being arranged today, will arrange this area. The passing of this law represents the final seduction of order and order in this exclusively for society of a significant and securely sensitive and delicate area. Also, as I said earlier, this law and its great importance are in the field of human rights and freedom. It is a great contribution to raising to a greater degree of protection of these rights. The entire private security sector has so far been, controversially through various laws and individual provisions in those laws regulated, but lacked such roof law in this area. He is now, offered this way, the PUPS parliamentary group is assessing, definitely editing all aspects of the private sector's performance. The special importance of introducing this law is that it will finally raise to the necessary satisfactory level of performance in this activity. Editing this area and raising the quality of services to a demanding level of contributions, I am deeply convinced, and greater security of citizens. This law will also remove, or tolerable, the unfair competition that massed in this area and narrow down space to the various centres of power that have been so far, let me use the term, the chaos so far in this area has greatly affected. I think that's one of the important reasons why this law has been passed this long and the law has been withdrawn, etc. I think that there was resistance, because those who hunt in a blur don't feel comfortable with this area being arranged. There's one thing about this whole thing I want to point out about law enforcement, and that's that we're going to meet now under new circumstances with the next situation. Jobs in this area are rising to a higher quality and thus more service prices will not be at this level, and they were at the lowest level in Europe, at an hour level of 1.9 euros. In a huge number of countries, it was up to nine euros, and in the most developed countries, as much as 28 euros. So, multiplely, what the law requires will raise the price of services. There will be far fewer people who will be able to pay for it, and there is a much greater need for security from the facilities and beyond, given the increase in crime, so that it will be a very important function of control in law enforcement. For these reasons, more than ever, a category of self-protection will be applied in this area, self-protective actions, that is, that many companies, many institutions, will organise their own security protection under this law, but then it needs to be severely controlled, because there will be many shortcomings undermining the desire to implement them more cheaply. This means that the control service should be extremely well organized, prescribed, and not given to us, as it has been so far, at least according to some of the data I read, it was some average to 1,800 even the company one inspector. It was kind of a proportion, and it shouldn't stay that way. It is therefore very important, too, that this law provides for the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts, all those foreseen, to be completed within six months as prescribed. It is also significant that, as soon as possible, these sublegal acts are passed because I think they will somehow be able to resolve some of the shortcomings of this law. I'll point to a few. We have no precise regulation, the minister spoke of it, but it does not seem explicit to me in the law, it is possible that in these acts, whether this sector, the private security sector, will at least directly be under control and democratic civilian control. Then it is not precise enough, will it, and when it comes to the ownership of private security companies, what about owners in the image of foreign citizens. I think that should be regulated more precisely regardless of the other law, etc. Also, my colleagues have mentioned here, and I also want to underline, I know that the law on police is something regulated, but I don't know how much, but I think it has to be very explicit, even if it's forbidden by private private security companies to hire as perpetrators of active police officers. So it must be made absolutely clear and explicit. In the end, there's one more thing that's not touched by this law, and I think it should have. I'd like the minister to hear this. So nothing is regulated, regulated status, position, obligations of private security facilities in direct war danger or in a war situation. A team before, when we look at the number of employees in this sector, the number of pieces of weapons, we have all the conditions tomorrow for the paramilitary. A team before the numbers in this sector are greater individually than the numbers of the army and the numbers of the police. A team before, uh, we don't have, uh, arranged, centralised, tomorrow, conditionally speaking, command of those forces. A team that we have today, and I'm going to say something that may not be an opportunity, and it is, I think that if we were looking for today, a little wider, personally, for those who participate in this cheerleader, as we call them misery, we'd find a lot of those who are now in private security, or vice versa, or if we were to search private security there, we'd find a lot of these. I just said that these compromised characters were also employed in private security today. Therefore, among the amendments I have submitted is the following, which is why I cannot accept, Mr. Minister, saying in law that those who have spent three years on security jobs so far are not obliged to pass the exam, but are automatically granted a license. What about the huge number of people who've worked for three years in private security so far, but these are the characters we're talking about. We can't let that happen, so I think the law, and I've intervened with the amendment, that we've spent it in the military, here, there and private security, that private security has to go out. So, in order not to take up more time, the PUPS parliamentary group is aware that the law, the practice, will still have to dress up, so it is with everyone who is first brought, and the team before we move from this chaos to an orderly part of the job and that it will be perfected further and upgraded, we think that this is the way it is, the happiness for such an unsettled area so far, and that we will finally have one segment, primarily security, from human rights, far better decorated, and for that reason, this parliamentary group in the voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26648	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, starting with the fact that Serbia obviously has a problem as a state with the security, security of its citizens and its institutions, given all those developments from the past days, it is clear how much it took to propose these laws, as well as to put parliamentary ratification of the agreements in question on the agenda. So they all have points of contact about security, about police co-operation, about regulating migration issues, readmissions and the like. So when we start discussing whether it was necessary to arrange this matter for private security and detective activity, we'll agree that it was really necessary. It is really inadmissible that for years we have no clear legal framework for the functioning of private, security agencies, or detectives. That's the way to praise the legislators. However, we have a serious problem that we would like to point out, which is that somehow it reacts slowly to all the problems that are getting stronger and stronger in terms of violence and government as if it does not have a clear and concrete, strong answer. How does violence control it, how to control it as much as possible, not only control it, but reduce it? Mr. Minister, you gave a very honest statement a few days ago when you said that the problem with violence is mainly and which, in fact, not only mainly, but does hooligans, cannot be solved without a clear political determination towards that violence. In doing so, you said that it was really necessary to put an end to closing your eyes to the violent and their actions and to stop courting those bullies. You really need to make a difference between hooligans and fans. You guys can't beat hooligans and thugs that they're fans, even if they do it in stadiums or around stadiums. So they're criminals, thugs and hooligans. There's no dilemma about it. Mr. Minister, a few months ago you banned the Pride Parade. That's when you said you couldn't secure the safety of the citizens if that parade was held. You have not clearly defined yourself against those who have threatened and have had concrete knowledge of what they intend to do in terms of destructive and criminal behavior. You know that in schools, elementary schools, children make duels. You know to what extent domestic violence has escalated. You have knowledge that there are more and more minors who commit violence on the streets and who attack peaceful passersby. So now what happened at the match derby a few days ago. That was all, and there was no cheerleading for any team. This amount of violence, that three times the game has been interrupted, and that in fact no more serious, more concrete move by the authorities has been withdrawn, nor a more concrete reaction, except for several fines, seems to me 17 fines, one out of 10,000 and 16 out of 25,000 dinars to those hooligans. I would remind you that the wars of the 1990s started with violence at football games. Now the question arises – has the circle closed or a new cycle of violence opened? You have a national strategy to fight violence, you have a National Council, you have a infrastructure that can do something to control that violence. In these proposals of the law, you are talking about how much it takes to control private security, and agencies that provide certain facilities and persons, you are talking about the need for legal offices to treat them within agencies and to treat those agencies to employers, i.e. state institutions and in general to society. Then how is it that somehow you're missing out, giving a clear legal answer, giving a clear concrete answer as Minister of the Interior about what to do to finally stop this spiral of violence from completely but completely stopping. Mr. Minister, in this society 20 years ago, a culture of violence has been favoured. It's favored by inaction and by a soft act and by the wrong act of actually bringing things into some civilizational contexts. Can we allow ourselves this luxury of para-military formations, that these hooligans are already representing some kind of paramilitary formations, savages in the streets of our cities, in sports events, does this country allow itself? Could this state afford itself that kind of compromise that was made in northern Kosovo, which is in fact the biggest compromise of the state, state authorities and that of the Brussels Agreement that you signed and which we fully support. But if politicians sit on boards of clubs, in that case it is politicians who influence the policy of a particular football club, and they may also have an impact on this country's policy of violence that somehow constantly revolves around these clubs. So there is one conflict of interest, Mr. Minister, and that conflict of interest can only be resolved in one way by withdrawing politicians from those boards of directors and simply by making clubs what they need, which is to deal with sporting activity. So, without support, without the support of politicians and politics, hooligans, thugs wouldn't have the power they currently have. Mr. Minister, perhaps you would send a very good message to those very violent people and in general to society, if you, say, took General Vlad Trifunovic to protect him in the sense that he did so much to this country in the 1990s by saving a few dozen young lives, today providing all possible rights, promotion and expressing gratitude for his humanity, for his patriotism, which he did at the time. You would do so by finally rewarding this man by not having to continue to live in a hotel room of nine square meters.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26650	Mrs. Judith, what does Trifunovic have to do with the Private Security Act? Please go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26651	Allow me, that's exactly what I was talking about. Is there any idea what that means to be a culture of violence? It's this culture of violence that destroys this society and threatens, to that end, in fact, the state. The culture of violence when you're calmly looking at what violent people are doing, when you're not doing everything in your power to do it, and it's not enough to propose just such laws on private security and on the detective agency, it takes much, much stronger interventions of this country. So, among other things, what I said falls into the determined struggle of this country to bring things into the legal frameworks and to ensure the peace and security of the citizens of this country. So, if these laws are to that end and are proposed for that reason, it is normal for us to support it, but we also ask that this security and this effort to provide all these human rights that the citizens of this country have the right to, at the same time, be only one part, one segment of future activities of the government and ministers. So it is obvious that this is insufficient, and it is particularly insufficient when you read carefully, among other things, and a statement in accordance with EU rules. With both of these laws, each of these answers is – no. So, if we are in favour of European standards, you have shown some good will, you have shown that you want a clear path to European integration, you have shown good will by signing the Brussels Agreement, show then and your willingness to make these European standards your own. Show your willingness to maximum protection of human rights because security cannot in any case separate itself from human rights. I simply expect you as interior minister and prime minister to give a strong and clear answer to all the thugs and all the hooligans, no matter where the violence is done, the state is affected and threatened every time the bully attacks, and there is no reaction from the institutions of this state. Whether it's violence in the family, on the street, in northern Kosovo or at games, it's absolutely nothing. Turn off your policy in terms of the influence of politicians on sports clubs, strengthen the change of the climate in society, as far as violence is concerned. Strengthen the need for citizens to realize that you work for them, to think of them, to favour humanity, empathy and solidarity. So that's the way you should go, it's not just enough to strengthen the repression and it's not enough to propose such laws, it's absolutely just a fraction of what you have to do and it's actually our concerns about these laws, protecting human rights, it's always about protecting human rights, it's just a question to what extent you're willing to make it clear and in that sense to take the right moves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26652	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26653	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, we have very carefully analysed the proposals for a law on detective activity for private security, given the great importance covered by this segment. The fact that we are the last in Europe and the last in the region to pass such laws was supposed to be an advantage in proposing these laws because we are in line with our circumstances and the moment in which our society is located, and given the positive experience from the best European solutions, we needed all these European solutions to apply in this law, but again I am saying that we are taking care of the specific circumstances in which our society is located. This law is certainly a step forward in relation to the current situation, because we have simply not had a regulated area so far, and in practice we have had an existence somewhere around 50,000 persons dealing with this type of activity with an inaccurate estimate of whether this is the number of persons, but also an orientational assessment of whether it is also 50,000 weapons that these persons are using and about 3,000 agencies. Now the basic question is asked, it is known in practice who are the persons who founded such agencies, it is mostly persons who have had some previous training or were the most common members of the MUP and which is safe and normal, because it cannot be done with such important jobs by someone who does not have any previous training or prior knowledge, and there is a wide range of knowledge that should be owned by those persons in order to do often very complex jobs. But what we are concerned about is whether there are existing agencies, whether there are persons who do not have, say, pure biography, who may be on the other side of the law, who are doing these jobs again, and who, as proposed by this law, will not have to ask for a license and ask for confirmation of psychophysical ability, which is, in our opinion, the circumstance that needs to be eliminated immediately from this law. I trust the Ministers since, as far as I can tell, it's been filed somewhere around 100 amendments, that you've accepted about 50. I have no doubt in your good intentions at all, but I think you've been shown by a few colleagues that simply the individuals who are now working in these agencies must not only go through the test of psychophysical abilities again, but to check their résumés. I'd like to add one more thing, and I think that, as in other sectors of security, we should do occasional tests on these faces' psychophysical abilities. Because once being mentally and physically healthy doesn't mean being permanent, it's a very variable category. That's exactly what I'm saying, so that those black chronicles of our media and those pages belonging to the black chronicle would be as narrow as possible. I believe that the common intention is both of you as a proposing and ours with well-intentioned suggestions that we have a well-organised security system in which those who deal with an important security sector will not endanger anyone's safety. On the other hand, since this law is somewhere, as far as I can see, 15, 16, the year appears in various variants and disappears, but in any case, what is visible to the first step is that who – representatives of the MUP and representatives of the agencies doing these jobs, of course, was involved through the debates and the expert public, but what we think we should have, as well as Mr Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior when he accepted already in the beginning of half the amendments, it means that he should have been included in the task force and representatives of the Trustees of information of public importance and professional public. They did participate, as far as I can see, in public debates and public debates, but I'm talking about the task force that prepared this law. On the other hand, public questions are being asked, precisely whether the representatives of the MIP task force and those of those who are already in the gray area of this job, did they, of course, have certain interests that the law seems to be what it looks like? It is precisely the analysis of this law that it is certainly open space that even the members of the MUP, along with regular government work and income from the budget, can also work in agencies, and certainly given the well-fused employment that exists with the members of the MUP that many will retire, and many will retire at 50, 51 or 52 years of age, to be employed by these agencies. I'm saying again, we don't mind, it's perfectly normal and natural. These people also naturally need to deal with some related type of business, but the check we talked about, precisely because of the poor state of our society, because of the great violence we witness on a daily basis, should therefore be very careful in solving these issues. As regards the collection of personality data, since the Personal Data Protection Act regulates this area, we do not think that sublegal acts should be regulated which personality data are collected, the way data is collected, data collection permits, data processing methods, what to do with these data, but it seems to us that in this part the law must be very clear and precise and in agreement with the Constitution and the Personal Data Protection Act. Secondly, when the data is delivered to the detective agencies of state authorities, legal entities and other entities, there remain unclear conditions under which these data are supplied, which is the type of data, what if the legal person, the state authority does not supply that type of data and what if the same legal person, with different agencies, behaves in different ways, the Agency is privileged and receives all the information immediately and the other one is not. That is why we think that this area should be more detailed and more clearly regulated. As far as these provisions are concerned, whether persons doing these jobs should have, in addition to security assessments and those official confirmations that everyone working in the security sector, in the intelligence services, in the BIA, in the military, the police. By us, absolutely yes. So, in addition to the need for confirmation that there is no criminal procedure to enter the process of obtaining a license and a license to carry a weapon, it is our opinion that these persons are not convicted, especially for acts that make them unfit to carry out that kind of work. I think we're going to bring these unclean situations down to an absolute minimum, and I believe that's what your intention is as a proprietor. As for a number of issues related to data delivery, from those most sensitive issues, such as nationality, religious commitment, political belonging, health status, etc., it seems again that this law should have been quite precise and much clearer to regulate this area, in order to avoid any possibility of arbitrary interpretation. As for the destruction of data collected about a particular person, the law also needs to be much clearer and much more precise and to arrange the way these data is destroyed, whether it is done by commission, whether it is a formal note, a record, whatever, etc. The law did not regulate what with foreigners planning to perform this action. I suppose they are fully equal with our citizens, which would be European standards. I don't think it's against the law to regulate it. As far as licensing and surveillance are concerned, the M.O.P. is doing one and the other. The MUP is certainly very qualified to do both jobs, but what's our suggestion is that it's always better, on such sensitive issues, that one authority issues a license and the other one controls one another in a way that controls one another. I say, for avoiding every possible kind of abuse. Since this matter has not been legally regulated so far, this is certainly a step forward in relation to the existing solution. We'll see, Mr. Minister, which amendments you accepted. Anyway, we'll vote for all agreements on the agenda. It was not a questionable moment, but only after considering the amendments you have accepted will we make as a parliamentary group a final decision on whether we will vote in favour of these draft laws. Also, I'd like you to understand all of the suggestions I've made in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26654	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26655	I would like to begin by saying that today is the anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 2006 and that this is one thing which marked a new democratic period and that this is one Constitution, for those who do not know it, is the most modern of the constitutions in Europe, which regulates human and minority rights in the way that no other constitution in Europe, which is an absolute legal framework for the development of the Serbian democratic state, in the way in which the Constitution guarantees territorial and any other security of Serbian citizens and territorial integrity should go. It bothers some people. We at the DSS are proud of it. We hope that it will be the basis and foundation of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia for a long time. Let's move on to these laws. We've been witnessing that security is not at a high level lately, and this is the consequence of a state of society that is not commendable and as a consequence of everything that has been happening to us in previous years. Only yesterday night's headlines were that Molotov cocktails were thrown at one elementary school, that three men in Zaječar were raping a girl, that today they were going to be arguing about the hooligans, I'm not going to tell the fans, because I'm a fan and we're all fans here in this assembly, but we're certainly not the ones going to the stadiums to make a riot, but we're going to the stadium to enjoy good football, in a good basketball or in some other sport, which is all, unfortunately, again less in Serbia. These are headlines that mark the days we live in. These laws should contribute to greater security and greater security for Serbian citizens. But let's start with the situation in the private security sector. This area is now completely messy and it's very good that one of these laws is passed. This law is quite good, modern and in an almost comprehensive way regulates this area. Serbia has the most people in the region employed in this area, it is almost 60,000 people under arms. You don't know the exact number, it varies from 25 to 60,000 people. It's closer to this number of 60,000 people under arms, which says that the private security sector has more armed men than the police, and these are mostly people who, to the greatest extent, will not be able to be members of these security services. For Serbian citizens, worrying is the number of people in private security, not so much in private security, as the structure of people who are employed in private security. It's something that upsets the public and particularly information that has been common lately, which is that private security, private security services, especially catering facilities that work in the evening are often actors of various physical accounts, beating people, guests, some of which have ended up with a fatal outcome. It's something that's reality and what's fact. It is good that this law regulates this area, as we expect to see and how police officers participate in the private security of various objects will be regulated. We expect the M.O.P. to regulate that, too. It's not the matter of this law, but it is the reality of the field. We expect to see how the abuses of this species will be prevented, which always lead to some tragic consequences. It's a relic of one time in the '90s, where she used to know the limit between police, intervention units and those who were on the other side of the law, organized crime, where they were helping each other and they were crutches to each other. It's a situation that's inherited. The education structure of members of private security is bad. If you go and look at the personal records of all these employees, you'll see that there are a lot of people with primary school, with two, three classes of high school, who have been assigned to management or who are tasked with protecting the most valuable things, which is the security of the citizens, the security of their property, the security of the company's assets. We, as a state, have given these people and these agencies to protect what is most valuable, which is security, to people who in no way can do it on any condition. The situation has also been recorded that a large number of fans, some call them hooligans, someone says they are not fans, but criminals are also security at a large number of hospitality facilities in Belgrade that work in the evening. It's probably a similar situation in other Serbian cities. It's something that needs to be removed as a phenomenon. We expect the MUP, which will be responsible for this area, to regulate all other laws and city decisions that regulate the work of catering facilities after some time, in the evening it must be determined that the security that will be on those facilities must be security in accordance with this law, that private persons who have not passed and are not licensed to provide security services to catering facilities, especially those working in the late evening hours. Also, at all sporting events, there must be only security that will have a license, which will exercise its powers and powers in accordance with the law. Otherwise, we're coming into a situation, and we saw it on the last Star and Partizan derby, that it was two-thirds less security than it was necessary, that more people who were supposed to come, in fear of riots, hadn't come and provided a security service. We come into a situation where our sporting events that we all enjoy and we all go to become too dangerous so that we and our families can go and follow them. I expect this law and one rigorous application of this law and supervision by the MUP to contribute to those events, events, property and security of people being much more and more high-quality protected by the adoption and enforcement of this law than it is now. There is one great responsibility at the ministry to successfully implement this law. What we need to change in this law is that the face of the security guards must be absolutely unjudged. The legal rehabilitation that exists for us isn't enough. We believe that persons who handle weapons, who protect the most sensitive human rights, which is the right to life, security, who are competent to deny certain human rights, the right to move, to legitimateize certain persons, must not be persons who are ever convicted of any crime that can be questioned by all these rights. We therefore believe that, despite the fact that some believe that after legal rehabilitation, it is discrimination against these people in relation to this law to get to work, because they handle weapons, they come in contact with confidential personality data, that they can limit certain rights, that they can legitimize people even though they are not state authorities, that they must be persons who are absolutely unjudged. Now, if you took from all the employees in these criminal records services, you'd see that a small number of them would be uncondemned. We don't need to build security agencies, as was the case in earlier years, where even some criminogenic groups had their own security agencies, but we have to build security agencies that are really going to serve it, and not that they're going to be a front for doing certain private security services, private security and for doing jobs that don't comply with this law. I hope that the data the police have from the White Paper, which is always mentioned, will be used in this case that those in the white book, whether they are legally rehabilitated or not, or that they have skillfully avoided trials or penalties, can never get any license to do any work under this law. So it would be very important to carry out this law in an extremely consistent and responsible manner. I don't think that that provision, that anyone who's ever been on a criminal record can be a member of any security detail, is more rigorous, but given the state we're in right now, it needs to be a bit more severe a solution, so if it shows a need, for ten years that provision can change, but I think at this point it has to be as sharp and rigorous as possible. The profits of private security employees are miserable and are between 20,000 and 30,000 dinars a month. These are people who carry weapons in certain situations, risk their lives and work for 20-25 thousand dinars a month. It's something that's got to change the same thing and set some standards, some minimum under which these people can't go. Because someone with a gun who tracks millions of euros every day from a bank or protects a person, risks his life, and that works for 25,000 dinars, it's not right. It is a huge loss in Serbia, but it is not necessary for these people to put their lives at stake every day for 25,000 dinars and for those who own these agencies to be rich in their account and who are in a position to provide some jobs. So we need to establish a minimum labour price for the employees of these services. I hope the Ministry of the Interior, which will conduct this surveillance, will prevent these phenomena. However, the law does not show how the M.O.P. and how it will monitor. The law does not say at any point that a special sector will be formed within the framework of the MUP, a special service that will deal with these supervisions. In a situation where you have 60,000 employees in this area, when the MUP that has a great responsibility anyway, and logically, it also has this jurisdiction, we have in no way received an answer that the MUP will control these security agencies. It is necessary to bring in 16 sublegal acts stemming from these laws and we expect it to be within a short period of time. Arms handling is a special point and this law says that those who have served a military term do not have to attend those arms handling trainings. In my opinion, it's not right, although I served a military term. Only a gun is allowed to be used as a firearm for security. I, as someone who served a regular military term, never had contact with a gun. We fired a M-48 rifle, semi-automatic and automatic, from a gun never. Simply, the situation is that only individuals at regular military service used a gun, military police, and others, I as someone who regularly served a military service never fired a gun, I had no pleasure. We fired from a variety of other weapons, but we didn't. In my opinion, it is necessary to introduce for all members and for all members of this security training from the use of firearms and may have to be provided that, besides firearms, electric trams already in use in all countries. We also need to consider using pneumatic guns, which we have been kicked out of use in police, which are known to the people as rubber bullets but that can sometimes save lives, with some broken bone, unlike a firearm that can deprive life. So, you should consider in certain situations the use of some means that can prevent the loss of life and the effect being the same – the removal of illegal violations of the law and the illegal violation of human safety and property by those persons. The law provides for regular tests which, according to us, are not enough. We think regular tests have to be done every six months. Why? I had the freedom to consult with my fellow MP, Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who is a doctor of psychiatry and she said it was absolutely unacceptable to run tests for five years and that it was small. Five years ago, 70% of psychiatric patients were healthy. We're talking about people who handle guns, who have the right to legitimateize people, they have personal data and people who have to be psycho-physically impeccably prepared to function in doing these jobs. If a driver can take a test every six months, a physical test, it must be an obligation for all employees of these services. So he can't do it for five years. It is absolutely inadmissible and little to give a weapon to someone, and that five years legally carries a weapon and every five years it goes to some test, especially considering that we are a country that has come out of wars, where it is possible to have various Vietnamese syndromes, where we are witnessing a large number of illegal weapons holding, where there are about two million arms units in Serbia's citizens. It's an entirely one provision that needs to be changed for the sake of general security. We also believe that this law can be a correct framework for regulating these security services, that it is in line with some of the standards that exist and that the arrival of large foreign companies is something that will bring some rules on this market and make this whole business serious, but what scares me is that Serbia does not become a reservoir for private armies of these large foreign companies that are now at war in Iraq and other battlefields in the world. The company "G4S" has its own private units of military, security in Iraq, which provide their various state institutions, monitor money transfers across all these crisis areas. So, this law doesn't regulate it, but you need to see how to avoid us becoming a market here or a tank for a private army that's being used around the world. We know that Western states like to have a number of military leave-over jobs, and you yourself mentioned to private agencies, and that's something that's not regulated by this law, which is a fairly real situation that can wait for us, given that 50% of young people under 30 are not employed, is difficult to find a job and that "light" profit, with a great risk of living, can be some way out of an unembarkable situation right now in Serbia, when it's hard to find a job. To go back to the other law that's important now, which is legalization, to make a joke, Alexi Zunic, through the law on private detectives. Nusic had Alex Zunic and Alexa Zunic lived in Serbia from Nusic and before Nusic. Saad, we're trying to legalize him in a way that, according to us, is not ultimately defined and good. I'll just say a few things in a hurry about the doctor's appointments, too. So once in five years it is absolutely insufficient and inadmissible that a person who will be able to ask the state alone will be obliged to give that private detective all the data on the residences and residences of the person, the owners of motor vehicles and vessels, insurance policies, immovableity, pension and disability insurance, data from the court records, data from the state records. So, that person who's going to have all that data has to go to tests regularly, has to be subject to regular control, and can't be allowed to abuse these data. This law is not an undefined way of destroying these data when the need for such data ceases and thus opens up the possibility of abuse of such data. So, it is necessary to prohibit the control of communication, this law is not precisely defined and to prohibit the misuse of personal data, as well as the senior expert preparing that is mentioned in this law. With all due respect, someone could finish an art school with a higher level of expertise, and be a private detective. So, no further narrowing and specialization here exists, which, according to us, has to be defined to determine. (President: Time, Mr. Michael. I'm just finishing one more sentence. We believe it is necessary to amend this law, and that unlike the previous Law on private security agencies, this law has a number of things to be completed, especially in the area of protection of personal data and citizens' rights, so that there are no widespread abuses, and we all know how this is possible in Serbia, in which way. So through the amendments that we have submitted, which others have also submitted, without doubting good intentions to do so, or to withdraw this law or to thoroughly supplement it through amendments, so that it becomes both realistically enforceable and would not open the door to violent abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26656	The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26657	Dear President-in-Office, Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the interior ministry, fellow MPs, as is known in Serbia, there is no roof law governing the area of private security and detective activity. In the process of harmonising the legal system with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the termination of certain laws and other regulations, a number of laws have been put out of force, leaving outside the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and issues relating to the performance of private security and private detectives. These two by nature are extremely important areas for the security of citizens, others legally unregulated. As you said, Mr. President, Serbia is the only country in the region that has not yet passed the law in this area. I would remind you that the laws governing the area of private security were adopted in Macedonia as the Private Security Act in 1999, in BiH as the Law on the Agency for the Protection of Persons of Property in 2002, in Croatia, the Law on Private Protection in 2003, in Montenegro, as the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property in 2005. However, the lack of roof law in this area can be justified by the broad and fundamental public debates that have been conducted in our country over the past years, and all with the aim of achieving the best possible legal solution with regard to the experiences of other countries which already have such laws in their legal system. It should be stressed that the comparative experiences of European countries say that there is no ideal and uniform legal solution to regulate this area, but that every country, depending on the circumstances, adopts the model that suits it most according to the specificities of each country. Since these activities are not regulated by law in our country, there is no accurate data on the activity of private security. For these reasons, research data carried out by civil society organisations are used to say that the data is minor warning, as the number of employees in this sector ranges between 25 and 60 000 people, and that the amount of weapons in the private security sector is about 47,000 pieces. If there's any comparison to the M.O.P. how many pieces of weapons are in the M.P., that's about 53,000 pieces, which means there's a difference somewhere around six thousand pieces of weaponry. I would also like to point out that the data suggests that private security and detective activity are an extremely valuable market whose value has been estimated at around 150m euros since 2008. It must be even bigger today, considering that over three thousand companies have been registered in this area. In this regard, we do not have precise data as to how many companies are working today, which means that there is not a small number of those operating in the gray zone, which is causing great damage to the state, but also to employees and citizens whose safety they need to worry about. The consequences of legal irregularities are also relatively common and harsh overruns of authorised persons and organisations operating in this sector, which are due to the kind of legal anarchy that exists in this area. This creates a lot of uncertainty for everyone's safety, because it's mostly about people who have a license to carry guns in addition to permission to intervene. It is clear that the state must have legal control and control in this area. In addition, it is common that natural persons engaged in this activity are not reported and employers do not pay any contributions for them, causing great damage to the state and to them, as employees remain deprived of their social and health insurance. Mr. President, when it comes to the concrete advantages of this law, one of the greatest gains to be achieved is the creation of a legal framework for the protection of the interests of both citizens and states and employers and employees of the private security sector. As you pointed out in your presentation, this law lays the basis for a public private partnership in the area of security whose creation will make our country stand side by side with the most developed EU countries. The experience of developed countries suggests that the private security sector is necessary to develop towards a partnership with the state, which significantly facilitates the work of police and other services responsible for the security of people and property. The service spectrum provided by private security companies on the European market is quite wide. For example, in France private companies provide prisons, in Germany, Austria and Estonia, military facilities, in Romania and Bulgaria's parliament buildings, etc. In many countries private companies provide large cultural, sports events with a large number of participants. There is no doubt that the creation of a legal framework is a long and complex process. The country's most important task will be to establish valid control mechanisms for these services. At the same time, the framework in which private companies must move must not come out of the framework of laws that protect the safety of people and property, particularly from the Personal Data Protection Act, and in no case must the border of this framework be crossed and this must be a clear position of the State. On the other hand, as a great advantage of these laws, we stress the law-set competence of the Ministry of Justice for the issuing of licences to legal and physical persons for the performance of private security and detective activities. It's being defined right here that a M.O.P. worker can't be a private security worker. We particularly support the establishment of expert advice to improve private security and public private partnership in the security sector, which will monitor law enforcement and give initiatives to improve work in this sector. One of the extremely significant effects of the example of this law will be preventing different informal groups from performing tasks of providing facilities and property, which is now in this legal vacuum, unfortunately, an unreal phenomenon. In these draft laws, the proposer of the MUP has also incorporated the elements of a national security strategy which, in Chapter 4 – National Security Policy, Section 4 – the internal security policy in the position of three states – is increasingly responsible for implementing internal security policy together with state and other bodies and institutions having private security entities, whose activity covers the protection of the safety of individuals, objects and other material goods not covered by the protection of competent national authorities. It is of particular social importance that the work of private security entities is fully normative and doctrinally arranged. It is also very important to take the 6th position where it is said that an important assumption of the achievement and promotion of the protection of life and property of citizens, human and minority rights is that the co-operation of state bodies with private security entities and other institutions, institutions, local self-government, professional associations, churches and religious communities, media, minority communities, civil society organisations and citizens, which develops trust relations and strengthens security and solves the security of these problems. Mr. President, the esteemed representatives of the MUP, with all this in mind and estimating the weight and importance of the matter being edited for the first time, the MP group of SPS wanted to contribute to the quality of the legal solutions in the hope that they would be accepted. That's what my colleagues will talk about more during the debate. Also, estimating the fact that these laws should play a significant role in achieving internal security and more effective protection of life and property of citizens, once again I want to underline the positive effects that this law will have. In the area of legal order, it is the implementation of provisions and national security strategy on doctrinal and regulatory arrangements in the area of private security. It is an order of work at national level, harmonised with European norms and standards. Equipment, training and quality of services will be improved. As far as the social situation is concerned, it is the formation of representative social partners at the border level. It's the beginning of social dialogue and the adoption of collective agreements. It is an improvement in the working conditions and standards of employees in this branch. When we talk about the economic situation, it is primarily about identifying the exact number of private security legal entities. Secondly, it is the identification of the exact number of employees in this area. It's the establishment of an annual ongoing activity in this branch. It is the creation of new and professional profiles and it is the creation of conditions for selecting personnel and advancements in this profession. Before I say that the SPS parliamentary group will support these two very important and important laws, I would like to point out that we will also support the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and the Republic of Austria, as well as the bills on the approval of the Agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the readmission of persons whose entry or stay is illegal, the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose entry and stay is illegal, as well as a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Macedonia on police co-operation. In the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of those draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26658	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26659	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues, we've heard really inspiring speeches here today, where position representatives somehow need to read to us members as if the minister hadn't already done it effectively, I think, but now it's my personal observation. What is certain is that today in Serbia we live in a very different atmosphere than just a few years ago or two years ago. Dear Prime Minister, I think you are fully aware of how much Serbia has really slipped in a measurable sense in general security. I think, unfortunately, they also show concrete numbers. Namely, the number of murders in only five months this year is twice as high as last year. We have the admiration of all sorts, as you noticed and spoke publicly of it, the hooligan criminal groups on our streets. The number of murders, rapes, muggings has increased quite a bit. We never got an assessment from the Ministry of Law on the correlation of outcomes with the number of criminals released through an amnesty of 2,500 people. Generally our people, and especially parents feel very insecure. I know that members of the MUP do what they can in one situation that is nowhere near ideal. I know that their material situation, and especially those on the street, is not ideal. I also know about plans to cut that 10,000-dollar bonus. I also know they have equipment problems. I also know that in any democratic state, such a wave of crime, violence takes place for a year, so that the prime minister will resign, which perhaps you can do. What's important is to tell us to discuss two draft laws that, after years, try to regulate an area that's completely unregulated, and there's really one law of the jungle, and you're talking about it. I have to say, these two draft laws have a lot of drawbacks. We of the DS have been seized by what you have said that a large number of amendments will be adopted. If that were indeed the case, it would make a significant contribution to improving the quality of this text that has been delivered to us, which I cannot comment on. The fact is that this proposal for a law on detective activity and the Law on private security is given the authority of private security and the right to protect persons of property and detective agencies to undertake investigative matters. store in the context of the detective's affairs. They are given the opportunity to hold and use weapons, and on the other hand, the monitoring of natural persons by all means available. Physical and secret tracking, listening, etc. It is possible to verify the identity, temporary retention of these persons, which is a newspaper, use of means of binding, use of physical force, etc. Why these laws are inadequately regulated. The suggestions that came to us for this area? First and foremost, these agencies can also set up jobs for persons with a criminal record. I ask you, Prime Minister, to eliminate this matter first. We have a situation that several tens of thousands working in this sector, among which there are many of those very suspicious pasts, through such a vaguely defined member, are allowed not only to work people with a criminal record, but to have these agencies form people with a criminal record. When I say criminal record, I mean criminal acts prosecuted on official duty. We think it's an absolutely inadmissible situation. There's no limit. So a criminal who's been sentenced to prison for, say, 20 years can be the founder of an agency or employed as a security guard. It works, and if I were cynical, and I wasn't, that it was an attempt to take care of those you let through the amnesty. Should these people be given a legal opportunity to carry weapons, to use force or to follow a particular person? Of course not. No less important, this job under the bill, as you delivered to us, can be dealt with by persons who have been fired from the police for violation of official duty by a judicial decision of the competent authority. So, a cop who's lost his job, say, for taking bribes, excessive use of force, endangering the reputation of an official, etc. Since internal control, as we have heard, there are only 50 members who absolutely cannot cover that area, you have a state secretary who has two metres of height and who was an inspector at the MUP, who can't cover any case and take him out to the end, which is embarrassing. It seems to us that these agencies will in some way become a legalized base for the people we talked about, with a criminal past, and the question is, who can trust such persons among our citizens? It seems to us, and we're afraid that maybe in some way they're making themselves parallel, if you want the parapolitan structures, to which the MAP will give the license to do what they're doing. Perhaps that would be the case if we were ultimately a well-organized democratic society with strong institutions. Unfortunately, however, we didn't. We support regulation of this issue, to be perfectly clear, but we do not support that such persons, which I have spoken of, with criminal records and past, can do this very delicate and responsible job. We ask, Mr. Prime Minister, to accept our amendments which prevent the work of persons convicted of criminal acts, who are being prosecuted by official duty and persons whose working relationship with the police has ceased as a result of a serious violation of official duty. It's not clear to us who would be in the interest at all to accept the law in the form and form that you delivered to us. We find it absolutely necessary to change through the amendment process and we are pleased if you share that opinion with us. The Private Security Act in Article 50 defines that temporary detention is not detailed. There are dangers of abuse. How does an official estimate that someone is committing a crime that is being prosecuted by official duty on the scene? That's very disputable. Will it have the capacity and, if you will, knowledge and experience? We have these people from these structures, from the past and people who did a good job, let them ask themselves -- how does this man who got the license even have any basic knowledge to determine that? What does it mean that the person who is deprived of freedom must surrender immediately to the police, and if he cannot hand him over to the police, he will immediately inform the police? Take care of that. I can't hand him over to the police, so I'll let the police know I have someone in the basement, but here, I can't today, I'm out of gas, I'll deliver it from Sunday. It's a completely unacceptable, scandalous solution. I know, they're laughing at some of my esteemed colleagues. I wouldn't joke, but I'll say it kind of reminds him of the kidnapping of the councilors and MPs, maybe, in the future, so when you can't shake power in Serbia, you kidnap someone and you build up power, you convince him that it's more important for him to work in a public enterprise, but to be a member of the DS. How do we know if that face was held today or yesterday or three days ago? When we see who can be the founder and the worker, we have a really big dilemma about all this. The use of weapons, he says – in case of necessary defence and extreme necessity. And here's the question of the credibility of a person who can shoot a gun. In Article 65, however, the possibility is given - in exceptional cases, the use of rotational lights. Haven't we had enough rotational lights these days on official vehicles? You only had 22 vehicles in Vrbas, four times you sent the KIM Office to the Vrbas campaign, as if Vrbas was on KIM. But then we heard he had to go there. I think Deputy Prime Minister Vukic spoke publicly about the problem of limiting the use of light, it seems to me to me to the Prime Minister, the defence minister. That means, Mr. Dacic, that you would have two pairs of these lights, like the MUP and as Prime Minister. I think it's the same article 65. I think it should be eliminated. So far, as you said yourself earlier, I'm grateful for that, these agencies have 50,000 pieces of weapons. The Republic of Serbia's MUP has, correct me if I'm wrong, 53,000 pieces of weapons. So you're leading 3,000 pieces of weaponry against private parapolitan forces that can, unfortunately, become party forces, as we saw in the local elections. Our citizens have over a million registered pieces of weapons, and 944,000, estimated to be in the MUP, are illegally holding weapons. Now you look at this situation. You open this market deeper, more, you regulate it only in a certain part, through licenses, you have no criteria as to how to train, you have no criteria who will train them, in what kind of polygons, except that the Minister of the Interior will do it through his rule. This is too serious, in our opinion, to remain so fluid that it floats in the air, in a situation where we have two million pieces of weapons in Serbia. But it didn't bother you, not you, but gentlemen of the majority, that whenever you think of our bill, i.e. Amendment to the Arms and Ammunition Act, put on the agenda, as well as 12 other proposals for DS law. No, you're not. It just doesn't occur to you, and we have new murders every day. We ask to regulate who in Serbia can have weapons. What's wrong with that? We need another mass murder in Serbia to remember what we suggested. This was again, Mr. President, an ideal chance to bring it together and it's a missed chance again. If the DS proposals were respected, no one could have a gun in this country, but would have to go through some serious checks and do it often, to be in that situation. Otherwise, 150m euros is currently the value of agency services, while the level of confidence of citizens in this agency is only 25%, 44% of Serbian citizens believe that these agencies in no way contribute to the security of Serbian citizens. I think we can also talk about the Law on Detective Action, which, according to us, is being brought in a situation where only spy equipment in Serbia can be obtained for 30 euros. In no way do you continue to regulate the control of the sale, who listens to in the shadow of the pausal estimates, that over 400,000, I don't believe in it personally, but I see that there are a lot in the media, 400,000 people in Serbia are listening, one way or another and in an illegal way. Here we have a really serious problem in the protection of civil liberties and rights and personality. Even many constitutional principles are being questioned by the Law on Detective Action. Otherwise, I'm asking, since no one's living here mentions any checks – whether they still own private security, i.e. Agency or more, can be companies owned by criminals, how do we now have, such as Total Security and Polito Agency? The first is registered at Darko Saric's apartment, and the second is owned by a certain Laza Bombers from Valjev. Do you think the proposal that you sent us makes something like this impossible? No, I don't. So you have to adopt the amendments, so something like this doesn't happen. We think it's very harmful that cops work for security agencies in their spare time, because that's why they come into a serious conflict of interest. Their low material condition is no reason to push people into the hands of the suspicious past and present, people of suspicious affairs, and that our officers who do their job honorably must be bouncers on rafts in Belgrade. Then we have unwanted murder scenes, as recently happened, tragic situations. Is it normal and acceptable for people from Gendarmes and the CIA or the Serbian Ministry of Intervention to work for privates in the security of rafts to earn a living? Something like that, according to us, is totally unacceptable. If it all worked this way, we wouldn't have the derby scene we had now, between "Red Star" and "Partizana", where our stadium burned and where, as we say, the directorial service failed. Who's in that office? Is it normal and possible that cops are trying to secure order, introduce some normality into a completely abnormal situation and see their colleagues there on the other hand? Does Serbia know who is on which side at the moment? Does Serbia really know today what kind of electricity of misunderstandings and mutual plantings are in the Ministry of the Interior? She's calmed down a little with Mr. Veljovic, but some things continue through the tabloids. They plant each other, they trip each other, and they set each other up. At the same time, we only have announcements from this government that something will be done. Calls, announcements, announcements. Gentlemen, no talking to criminals and hooligans. You, Mr. Prime Minister, have said well, that thing can, unfortunately, be solved by force. I don't see how else to apply the law by whoever in this country alone has a monopoly on the application of physical force. This is the country itself, i.e. Her organs, and in this case, the Ministry of the Interior. No one else can do that. Unfortunately, however, you failed the exam several times. You know it's true yourself. Because if those people who told us – there can be no "Prade of Pride" in Belgrade, then went and said – there can be no choice in Kosovo Mitrovica, they will tell us tomorrow – there can be no choice on Vozdovac, because they are not patriots in Vozdovac because they are not practicing at our patriotic training devices on Vozdovac. That goes to the point where tomorrow someone's gonna count our blood cells here again. You must not allow it, Mr. Prime Minister. That's your mandate. That kind of thing should make it impossible for those people to go to jail, where they belong. I end up asking you to seriously consider our amendments, to listen to the appeal, first of all to the parents and citizens of this country who are very concerned about their safety, to get people in the MUP to have decent privileges from which they can live, as well as normal equipment, to make sure that this bonus is not lifted, especially for those on the street, that our officers are nobody's porters, that our instructors are not leading the most important services in the country, and that this country is finally standing on solid and stable feet, which we are certainly, unfortunately, that with this power we cannot possibly do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26660	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26661	I just want to remind Mr. Stefanovic, because I assume he's speaking as head of the parliamentary club today, not as the political director of the Foreign Ministry, or maybe I'm wrong, because I don't know how long this post will last and whether he's in conflict of interest or not. It's not a criticism to him, it's a criticism to the Foreign Minister. Since he said earlier that the prime minister should replace the interior minister, I also think that he, as head of the parliamentary club of the main opposition party, should be replaced because of the wrong policy, he said, the political director of the foreign ministry. But that's not the most important thing I've ever heard from you. I answered because you can, Mr. Stefanovic, talk to someone else, and you can't tell me, because we've been in power together for the past four years. If we failed an exam, we fell together. If we were Glorifying someone, we were doing it together. If we were wrong somewhere, we were wrong together. This law was in the procedure of 2011, passed by your government and our government and was in the assembly procedure here. He was returned for remarks. I said come back because the trustee had objections to the text of the law and he was returned. It was a similar text back then. So, these remarks you have now, you should have read that proposal at the time, I think it would be more useful. We could have found a better solution in these two years. Obviously, the law was good back then because we proposed it from the point of view of the government, and now it's not because you're in opposition. It doesn't matter to me, I was the government back then and now. But you have to look and take care when you say that you know the broader circumstances in which politics was conducted during that period. First of all, I didn't deal with justice and legal issues. At that time, an institution was entered to delete the criminal record and rehab. The interior ministry cannot keep track of crimes, or convictions, no longer has the right under these laws when the legal period of rehabilitation comes. How do you think it can go in these organs dealing with the protection of personal data? When you talk about it, look at the width of the problem. We suggested security checks. We can't write that anyone who's convicted can't. Why? Because we don't have that record anymore. Because you ordered us to have the M.O.P. delete that records. Don't give us five laws at the same time that order us differently. The Justice Department also doesn't keep that record. Now you don't know in the scrining, no ministry will answer these questions. That's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. That's the problem. So please don't object to those who wrote this text. They wrote what is only possible in Serbia's current legal system, which is that through appropriate security checks, they will determine whether the appropriate person has the conditions to be who he is, what he applied for. There are no other options, other than amending the Criminal Procedure Act and the Personal Data Protection Act. As correct as it is that we have adopted such other laws, I do not want to answer these questions now. But I repeat again, the Personal Data Protection Commissioner prohibits the Ministry of the Interior from issuing any information to other authorities. For example, when a parking service asks for data - whose car is registered, we cannot give data. When they're looking for a home number, we can't give up any data. Also, the address - we cannot give the information, as well as the taxpayers, etc. Please, don't put the MUP in a position she's not guilty of. I absolutely agree with you, whoever is convicted cannot work and should not work in these services. It's undeniable, but we can't break the other laws that have been passed right now, to come out to meet what you're saying, because it simply won't be possible, we're going to fall under these bill proposals. Is that good or isn't it good? I repeat once again, I don't know if you're following me, if anyone is convicted of a minor crime after two years of obsolescence and the police are no longer on criminal record. That's the law you've passed, in your time, Mr. Stefanovic. Don't talk about something that's not real right now. Let's change if you don't think it's necessary, it's just not possible. No parallel structures are created, no need for that, no one will allow it, because from this... You're talking, now it's coming out, you see how you've now made a political theory. The theory that because it doesn't stand, that he who is convicted cannot, is intended now, who are also convicted, to do so, and thus to make a parallel army. I told you earlier, if that's true, that's what you've made possible by changing this law. Well, you ran those ministries, the Department of Justice, I'm sorry. I didn't run the Justice Department. You voted, too. Well, we are, who's talking, but I'm not complaining, you're complaining about yourself, and I'm not even complaining about you. I am voting now for those laws we proposed during the Mirko Cvetkovic government, and you are now against it because you have changed sides. But that's irrelevant. It's necessary to pass laws like this. After all, you know well, and you've used the services of such various agencies, like everyone else, and you've had some people to say that they've been doing these jobs, and it's important to introduce this into a legal framework. There are many other things that need to be introduced into the legal framework. Four hundred thousand people listening to someone in the country. Well, you know what, it takes 400,000 people to track and download what someone's saying. Do you know how much you'd jump employment in our country? Then let's all get involved so we can all listen to each other, get full employment. It's just, I don't know as if you weren't in power until a year ago, two. It's been two? There aren't two more? It doesn't matter to me. It lasts me in continuity. I really didn't think I'd be talking about this political thing today because we're discussing it, but you're politicizing the subject, you're the only political party that's here today instead of talking about the law, you're talking about some political theories right now. I know the opposition has to find a way to criticise something, but don't criticize yourself. You said everything about the laws that you passed at the time we worked together in the government. I don't think it's necessary, here's my advice. There's no need for you to give auto goals. You're weak enough. You're talking about 25% support for private agencies by citizens. So you're lucky to have so much support, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't exist. Don't be against the private security sector now. You've brought the National Security Strategy, where it's all written. I'm just asking you to get acquainted with the results of the previous government's actions and what was then brought. A national security strategy, private security as part of a common national security strategy and a public and state security system, and this is the realisation of all this. So, those stories that we are now, that we are not going to put it, that criminal records are the basis for someone not being employed. Find a legal basis for that. Here, we're ready to accept every amendment that is, and we'll accept that it's a proper security check, that's all we can do. Secondly, we can't because it's not possible. Not all citizens will be equal. Some have been erased from the records, someone hasn't. That's the whole truth about this. So, is there a problem and abuse? That's another question. Is there a problem with political relations between parties? That's another question now, we're not getting into it. We're talking about the law now, whether the law is good or not. So, indeed, Mr Stefanovic, there is no reason for us to now be politically discussing something that is a matter, which is exclusively a professional issue and a professional thing that has been dealt with by the organs in which we have sat together for all these years. But I absolutely refuse to mention here that the desire to work is to allow criminals to work as detectives or as security officers. We're absolutely saying that's impossible. The license granted by the Ministry of Interior will be governed by this basic principle, but it cannot be written in law. It's simply not legally possible and allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26662	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26663	Nothing of you can surprise me anymore, Mr. Dacic, but I did expect you to have the basic knowledge of the law you're proposing. Namely, confirmations, respected citizens of condemnation and a criminal offence being prosecuted by official duty are now and always issued by the court. So I don't know at all if you're aware of the amount of untruth you've told. I believe that's not intentional. Since you're someone who's been in politics for a long time, I don't think you'd allow yourself to make such a mistake. It has nothing to do with your record at the MUP. It has nothing to do with the Justice Department records, but in court, Mr. Dacic. The court is a building where SNS lawyers get good judgments for their clients. That's to explain. (Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, from the post: We are talking about the procedure. Turn around and ask. Read the law, or ask someone. I'm explaining to you... Why are you nervous? (Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, from the place: I am not nervous. See what it's like when someone faces you with the truth, you get upset right away. (Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, from the place: I get nervous? I'm just giving you advice. I'm telling you, Mr. Dacic, you're issuing a license... (Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, from the place: Ma, go and read the law. ) Mr. Dacic, if we're looking for you, I've made it very clear to you, if we're asking for an amendment not to allow people who are prosecuted on a criminal basis for acts prosecuted by official duty, not to allow them to establish agencies or work in them, Mr. Dacic, they can prove it by a court certificate, as well as employment in any state authority, and you know that, I guess. What's unclear about that? That's what we asked of you, not whether the M.O.P. has a record. I think you once again tried to translate the thirsty across the water, as you often do. By the way, let's not talk about these percentages, look today is Mitrovdan, a hiduk's breakup. Look at your promotions and how many socialists you have in the O.R. Does that remind you of that song, "Others, are you sorry the breakup took place"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26664	Vesna Marjanović, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26665	Madam Chairman, I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 27 and 107, having in mind that although you are very often, very strongly reacting when MPs harm the Rules of Procedure or do not act in accordance with it, you do not do so when it comes to representatives of the Government, in this case the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who has the habit of acting optionally in the Assembly, perhaps because he misses sitting on the other side of the bench. But it is really inappropriate for the first man to cast the government, to address the “you” of the people’s MPs without you reacting to them. Please, if you had the same principle in dealing with government representatives, you should be sharper than you have with MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26666	Thank you, Mrs. Marjanović. I really didn't react, but even before the prime minister spoke, the MPs from your parliamentary group were also throwing away and I should have reacted, so I'm simply sorry, in the future I'll react anyway. The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26667	You know what, I'm saying you're always reacting, and you're Wesna, why are you throwing it at me now, why is that? And you, Mr. Stefanovic, did you just say that I surprised you with my simplicity and ignorance and all that? Where do you get the right to insult people, what kind of superhumans are you, Aryans, that all other citizens here are second-class citizens? What did you confirm that you knew something in this area? The court, as far as I know, is there a criminal case being conducted? The criminal record is in the MUP. You're going to November 29th to pick it up. So, do you have any lawyers? Is that true or not true? Is there a lawyer here, is that it or not? It's obvious there's only a politician here and no one understands that. So I've just mentioned here as a paradox of our legal system, that we're erasing criminal records and that we can't then establish whether or not someone's been convicted. Why? We can't tell others because it's not given by other regulations regarding the protection of rights, personality and everything else. I agree, if our amendments are such that anyone convicted cannot and should not work in these services, I agree. That's our opinion, too. I just asked you to do it now, that this whole theory that you've been talking about, that someone is now making a paramilitary with those criminals who are convicted, and we're defending them, this law is not a topic and a place for that kind of debate and topic. Of course, I'll be as cultural to you as you are to me. What do you think? Yesterday I saw it in the paper, Biljana Srbanovic can now talk about me and what she wants to do, and now that I say things from her private life, I'd be rude, right? So, I apologize if any of you here thought that controversy should be just a monologue. What do you want now? Should I sit here and, yes, when you slap me to turn your other cheek? This is a political fight, you fight, you must be used to fighting, the Democrats are out of the fight, you're used to it, because it's better to fight here than on the street. I'm just paying attention that the laws we've passed aren't exactly the best to ensure this goal. Criminals shouldn't work at any security agency or be detectives, and I'm okay with it. When it comes to who failed the exam, when it comes to hooligans and everything else, it's a long story and we'd have to touch everyone who used all the fans in his political campaigns, winning political points, giving them prizes and everything else. We have to fight now, because Serbia is not the wild West. It's not a topic today, but you're the one who started it. I absolutely agree with you. Let's discuss the law. We'll take whatever's good. We aim to make this law good, not for Europe, but to be good so it can function in the best possible way. Therefore, I thank you for all your remarks, I hope when these political matters are rejected, I am sure they are well-intentioned and in that sense we will accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26668	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26669	You see, Mr. Prime Minister, how well you end up in the position we've been telling you all along. We learned about you. You say it yourself, we used to work together, right, but then society ruined you. You've found yourself in a bad society, and then you make these mistakes, as if on your way to the Assembly you've been convinced of the law, so it seems to me, nice, no offense, no hard words to you, without any kind of, if you will, Patosa, we've told you in our opinion, what's wrong here. You're making all the accusations in your famous manner. No one's arguing with you that you're crossing your attitudes politically with us, that's normal. You're right, this is where it's supposed to be done, not on the street. How can you yell at us, talk about percentages here and say that we told you something we didn't tell you, and then say in the end, we don't want criminals working in these departments and we don't want to start them. We tell you this all the time, you ask nicely, we have an amendment, we have submitted, you accept the amendment and the solution. That's what you'll be in line with what you said earlier. Come on, let's get people to trust us. I asked you about the members of the MUP, and you didn't answer that, and I guess you have that record, if you have anything, in the HR or in Bozovic, so ask him who the people are, who have been disgracefully fired from the MUP, who can now be in those agencies. I think that would be equal to social damage. You have that record for sure. So, I don't think it's a good thing that when you hear the opposition's argument, which you don't have to like or accept, that you answer this way, and if our MPs were yelling and throwing away, I apologize. I think it's only fair for you to apologize to us for comparing us to the Aryans and I don't think that's correct and it's not something consistent with this country's democratic assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26670	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to congratulate the promoter, i.e. the MUP, for not succumbing to the influence of various stakeholders and what the bill is like it is. It has already been said that the Republic of Serbia is the only country in Southeast Europe, which has not yet regulated the private security sector of detective activity. As is known, there have been two attempts to bring the Law on Private Security and Detective Action into this House, one of which is the last attempt in January 2012. As you know, the National Security Strategy treats the private security sector as elements of the security system. According to the European Private Security Conference, it is estimated that around 600 companies and private security agencies are operating in Serbia today, where around 50,000 people are currently operating. Serbia's market power is estimated at around 6,000 contracts with state institutions and about 8,500 security contracts with private persons. What do we want to accomplish by adopting such a law on private security? The main objective of passing such a law is to regulate this private activity legally, and as we have concluded, it has not been legally regulated so far, and now I see that some are afraid that we are legally regulating it, that it will be the introduction to the formation of new parallel structures, parallel armies. The aim is then to ensure a higher level of control by competent state authorities, businesses and private security industries. The goal is also to professionalise, but also legalises this service activity, which, unfortunately today, is largely operating in the gray area of the economy and does not settle its obligations in terms of taxes and contributions to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the employees in it are very often working on black without completed labour contracts, paid taxes and contributions. Who will be subject to the private security law? It is somewhere, as I said about 600 legal entities, two of which are the multinational companies "Ji Fors" and "Securitas", one regional company and the rest are mostly owned by natural persons and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How are these companies doing today? From publicly available documents, audit reports and final accounts, it can be concluded that their business is on the verge of rentability, with profit shown at 2 to 3%. Their social and economic significance is enormous and should not be underestimated. This activity is working intensively and employs a large number of people who provide such existence and contributes simultaneously to the charge of the Republic of Serbia's budget through tax payments and contributions to personal incomes. The law would also apply to self-preservation. These are security services in public or private enterprises, which are responsible for the security of the assets of these companies. The law also regulates the area of technical protection of money transport, as well as the directorial services at public gatherings and sports events, so the provisions of this law will also apply to them. Several dozen small and medium-sized enterprises provide technical protection services, which includes delivery of equipment for anti-invasion systems, fire protection, video surveillance, access control, satellite vehicle tracking and mechanical protection. Five or six companies provide money transport services for banks and trade chains. Who are the employees of these agencies? For a huge number of private security employees is temporary or occasional, but in any case extorted work, because these people couldn't find a job in their profession, or they were losers of transitions that were out of work and they were trying to complete their job and somehow get their pensions. The common feature of all employees is that they belong to the lowest social layers and that they are on the verge of existence, regardless of the level of their education. About 20% of the employees of these agencies are former members of the Serbian Army and the MUP, who are happy to improve their material status in this industry. Why don't we have a private security law for over a decade, and why do we keep trying to bring it in? The answer is very simple. For many years, there has been a struggle between various stakeholders, para-state institutions, associations and individuals who are trying to push their material interests into this law, by taking away and transferring to themselves the monopoly of the MUP, to examine, control and license. In such a way, they would provide significant financial resources for themselves in the long term, and would reduce revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The number of those who would like to paralyze and profit from this law is great and you are very well-known, to all MPs, I believe that most of the many agencies have spoken by offering, trying to push individual solutions into this law. The fact that they could not bring their interests into line leads to the collapse of all previous private security laws. Such inadequate and inappropriate practice is inadmissible and does not correspond to European security tendencies. Serbia, as a post-conflict and post-traumatic society, is not at the level of development that allows the transfer of monopoly from the MUP to some agencies that would subsequently be formed and issued, licensed and trained by private security employees. The bill contains some elements that are bad and which are contained in earlier draft laws. I would refer here to some, through this principle debate, just some. I look forward to the fact that a huge number of amendments have been proposed under these two laws, about hundreds, and as the minister says the draft law is ready to accept and install about fifty amendments in the bill. I'll just point out, apostrophe to some bad solutions in this law. First, in relation to Article 12, when the conditions for obtaining a licence are prescribed, the person may be employed by companies engaged in private security. It's inadmissible by the bill, you suggested, and there it was, my many predecessors said about it, that the license was valid for five years, Mr. Minister, for five years. The amendments to our proposals are that the licence may be valid for five years, but that each person employed by the detective agency, the private security agency, who performs the tasks for which the carrying of the weapon is intended, should be subject to a medical examination, or a mental stability check every year. Five years is too long and I hope you will find the strength to install that amendment. The following observation, also crucial, is the same to Article 12(4). After the adoption of this law, according to the proposed law-makers, that all persons working today in private security agencies, in detective agencies, must be re-licensed, i.e. that they must be licensed, will increase huge, resulting in huge costs for these companies. Not those costs will be paid by companies dealing with private security today, but will be installed through contracts with job suppliers, as you know in Serbia today by powerful companies such as Telecom, such as EPS, NIS, because simply that price that employers have to pay to license their employees, will increase by so much the price of their contracts and will again go to the harm of public enterprises, large companies and the state. The next topic to consider the legislator is Article 14. Who's gonna pay for the license? I'd like the representatives of the MUP to listen to me. We here have to balance the costs incurred by an individual if he wants to hire a private security agency, the costs of employers and the costs of a job. Please consider in this direction, who will pay for the license, the persons who want to be employed by the private security agency, whether they pay for the company in which they are employed, or who will have to pay the person to be deposited with the MUP. Many remarks by the company's owner come down to the fact that when that person stops working in that company, it carries a license with it, so it makes sense that the person only pays for the license, which they can agree on in some ways. Then we come to article 35, where we additionally burden ourselves through the solutions offered by law, we additionally burden the owners of private security companies and detective activity, where, I will say openly, because of the influence of some lobbys from Croatia, we accept the solution that, for accompanying the money, I am talking about Article 35, the necessary conditions next to the case with chemical-technical protection and the armored vehicle with special technology and adequate physical security. Through the amendment that I have submitted, I would ask you to consider it either one or the other and this solution that you are offering, will also increase the costs of companies dealing with private security, and everything, and I draw your attention to the condition of the case with electro-chemical protection. My information says that this is highly isolated and that this case is being produced in Croatia and that some lobbyists have pushed through to further burden those who today, the five-six companies that deal with and provide money escorts. It is far more cellular to prescribe either one or the other – or an armored vehicle, an appropriate number of natural persons, glass with special protection or a case with chemical-technical protection. (Ivica Dacic from place: accepted. I see it's accepted, I thank the Minister. I'd like to draw attention to Article 16(2). The law on detective activity, which we talked about with a representative of the MUP, with the satisfaction that the chairman of the Security Services Control Committee noticed. In this solution that is offered, detectives can deal with a secret phonograph and TV surveillance, but it should be explicitly prohibited that they can also deal with secret interception of electronic communications, because with authorized security services today we have a situation to apply a secret interception of e-mails can only be approved by the competent court. If they would accept such a solution, the Agency for Detective Action could uninterruptedly, without the authority of the competent court, apply this measure. Now I'd like to say something about the lack of law, and I'd like you to pay attention to that. This law doesn't regulate, that's what I was talking about on the Committee, the issue of security of nightclubs, bars and rafts. Mr Minister, on the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, I was informed that under the Law on Police, it was the obligation of the Ministry of Interior to bring in sublegal acts that would prescribe which operations the members of the MUP could not deal with. I've been informed that these sublegal acts have not been brought in. As they are not brought in, and in this law proposed, there is no problem with security of nightclubs, bars, rafts, then we will come into one situation that unless we bring in these sublegal acts, the members of the MUP, which is today the case, in the morning of being legal officers in the MUP, will be good police officers, and in the afternoon provide certain abortions, using their reputation and authority as members of the MUP. Personally, I think that this is a major problem, especially for Belgrade, Nis and larger centres, and that sublegal acts should be prescribed which activities should not be dealt with by the members of the MUP. The second problem is next. Mr. Minister, we have not regulated the problem of production, import, transport and sale of equipment for secret video, audio surveillance and covert interception of electronic communications. It is a huge problem in Serbia today. I would draw attention to the need to submit a special regulation or a special law that would regulate the area. Today, on the Serbian market, we have that anyone without a license, without permission, can import equipment for secret listening and recording, secret video surveillance, a secret search, however you like, all methods that normally deal with security services. Today, any powerful company, Mr. Minister, can buy that equipment today, otherwise it is not expensive, as you know, any natural person, who is powerful in economic terms, can apply those measures without the control of the competent state authorities. Over time, it is necessary for this area to be regulated by some regulation. You can buy wire equipment at the kiosk today. You don't even know who got the license, who can import it, who's the manufacturer, who puts it on the market, what the atheists are for it. So, this area isn't arranged for us. In the end, in the end, I'd like to draw your attention to something that this law doesn't regulate either. You know that we are an open market, that through foreign investment many foreign investors will come into our country and that the problem of private security will also be how represented, but nowhere through the proposal of this law is it specified which state-owned enterprises, companies, institutions, institutions of particular importance for the security of this country, can't engage private security companies. In the bill of law, Mr. Minister, we have no precise state institutions, government companies, which are dedicated to production, I draw attention to. How are we gonna protect the licenses? How are we going to protect what is otherwise protected as an official secret, unless the bill says so? I'll tell you about the telecommunications company. If you give private security companies, and it's a public secret that there are some powerful security agencies behind the private security company, you'll agree with me, and you have the most legitimate method of entering a single state's complex systems is through a private security company. Today we are provided with EPS, Telecom. I don't know if any government institutions, ministries. Therefore, it is necessary, please, to consider amendments to specify which institutions, enterprises of public importance, of vital national importance, which are of particular importance for the security of the country cannot provide private security companies, but exclusively for the MUP. Finally, I would ask that the amendments, which we have proposed and which we will consider on the board, balance between the burdens of the natural persons and employers on the costs of the medical examination. In the end, you prescribed by the bill that employees of these companies could carry up to nine millimetres of arms. Mr. Minister, you also have a.8 millimeter caliber and 765. If we were to adopt such a provision, I suggested an amendment of up to nine millimeters, which means that the weapon could be up to nine millimeters. If you stay at the position of nine millimeters, then all the companies have to buy 9 millimeter guns, and then they'll have extra weapons. I repeat, Serbia has so many excess weapons that it cannot be disposed of. I ask you to accept this amendment, that it reads: "up to nine millimeters", that we do not expose companies to additional costs, but that we can legalize the weapons up to 9 millimeters currently owned. I look forward to the adoption of these two laws and I hope that you will adopt our amendment proposals and that we will finally settle this area. Therefore, the SNS parliamentary group will definitely support the drafts of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26672	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26673	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a private security law is for the first time regulated in a thorough and comprehensive way by the unregulated area of providing physical, technical security and property services. The terms and conditions of the persons capable of performing those services shall be defined, the licensing of the security service provider, the way in which security services are performed, the official clothes, the means of marking, as well as the powers of the security officers, and the mandatory control of the conduct of these tasks by police officers shall be introduced. The draft law defines private security tasks covering the activities of risk assessment in the protection of persons, property and facilities, the protection of persons and property by means of physical and technical means and the protection of persons at public meetings, planning, designing and supervision of the implementation of the technical protection system, as well as the tasks of security and the transport of money and valuable shipments in a work that is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior. The law lays down conditions for the issue of private security licenses and that natural persons who directly carry out security tasks, as well as legal persons who appear as security contractors. Since we believe that the nature of the work that entrepreneurs and security companies would do is such as to require the possession of compulsory insurance against professional responsibility, in this part we have intervened with the amendment, proposing to introduce mandatory professional liability insurance in those private security activities where security officers come in direct contact with citizens and where just now the most incidents have occurred. The law provides for a five-year licensing procedure and can be renewed. The law also provides for security operations to be carried out only on the basis of a completed written contract, and provides for mandatory elements of the contract with the obligation to inform the competent police authority of the conclusion of such a contract. The law accurately defines the way in which each of those private security operations, physical protection with and without weapons, technical protection operations, planning, design and technical supervision, installation and maintenance of a technical surveillance system, money transport and valuable shipments operations, self-preservation and self-preservation operations, activities that legal persons can organise on their own, i.e. Your own security. The law lays down the powers of security officers, the verification of identity, the examination of persons and objects, the notification of warnings and the issuing of orders, the temporary detention of persons, the use of means of coercion, by giving authority to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to prescribe the way these powers are performed. The law also defines the appearance of official clothing, i.e. uniforms and IDs of security officers. It is prescribed that the appearance of the uniform shall be determined by the ministry responsible for internal affairs, and that these uniforms must clearly differ from the uniforms of officials of state authorities, police, customs, military. It is also established that security officers must have IDs, that these IDs are issued by the Ministry and prescribes the contents of them, in order to clearly distinguish the powers of security officers. The law also regulates records that are required to run a legal person, i.e. an entrepreneur involved in security matters, as well as supervision of the work of private security entities. In this respect, it has also been defined that a special working group, expert advice on improving private security and public-law partnerships in the security sector is being established within the interior ministry. The law, as pointed out, regulates a very important area in the security sector, by introducing uniformity in the area of private security, in a clear and comprehensive way defining security matters, the conditions for doing these jobs, the way in which security operations are done, the powers of security officers, as well as the control of their work. The proposal for a law on detective activity, which also for the first time in a comprehensive way regulates the so far unregulated area of provision of detective services, taking into account the fact that our legal system is harmonised with EU assets, as well as the fact that the limited resources of the state and the increasing public spending require the need for certain security jobs to be transferred to the private sector. Therefore, the adoption of such a law regulating the way in which detective services are provided, the entities providing these services, their powers, as well as the control of the conduct of detective work by the state, is a rational step and necessity. The bill regulates in a thorough and comprehensive way the way detectives operate. It is predicted that only legal persons and entrepreneurs who meet the conditions laid down in the law can perform the duties of detectives. The law also provides for the licensing of individuals to perform detective tasks, who must be trained and trained to carry out detective tasks and who have passed a professional exam for a detective before a commission trained by the MUP. The law also defines the powers of entities performing detective activity in the processing of collected data and methods of processing, the mandatory conclusion of the contract with the user of services and the mandatory elements of that contract, the legitimacy of the detectives issued by the Ministry and which the detective must carry with him when performing the detective's work, as well as the powers to carry on firearms and use the same, but only for the purpose of protecting his own life and physical integrity, unless otherwise the attack can be refused. The law also defines the supervision of the activities of detectives, carried out by M.O.P. officers, with the authority to temporarily prohibit the detective from performing detective activity if it does so contrary to the provisions of this law. In order to improve the performance of detective work, it is envisaged that a expert advice is being educated in the MUP to improve detective activity. A record is also established, which must be kept by a legal person, i.e. an entrepreneur who performs detective activity, as well as by the Ministry of Interior. The law also regulates data protection by prescribing the obligation to, even in the event of the termination of a contract on the provision of detective services, a legal entity, or an entrepreneur performing a detective's activity, is obliged to destroy or hand over the data to the service user, and that he is obliged as a secret to keep all the information he has come to do business. As pointed out in the opening statement, this law regulates a security segment that can be very important for citizens and for the economy, editing an unsettled area from the domains of protection of the private sector and that it is therefore necessary to support it. Practice and experience in our country, as well as in practice in EU countries, suggest that such laws are necessary for our country, so the PUPS Group in the voting day will support them so much before the government in this area, I would say, total publicity and lawlessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26674	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26675	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel it is necessary to pass a law on private security and a law on detective activity and address the problems that exist in this area. Mr. Dacic, I think you'll agree with me that M.P. and the police are unable to deal with an increasing number of murders in this country, with an increasing number of hooligans and thugs. If you look at the daily press, we simply have the fact that every day in Serbia one or more murders happen. When police and the ministry cannot deal with such a big problem, it is clear that police are unable to deal with a problem that is also of interest to citizens, and these are petty acts of theft and protection of private property. I believe that after the adoption of this law, there will be many more entrepreneurs and legal entities involved in the work of private security. Their services, unfortunately, will not only be sought by the institutions, but I am fully convinced that services related to private security in the future will, unfortunately, be sought by the citizens of this country. Perhaps the reason, Mr. Dacic, is that you don't have enough police officers in small areas, their number isn't enough, and the territories of certain municipalities are very large, so we can say that in this sense police are not guilty of not being able to provide every private facility in Serbia. That's why we think that the number of entrepreneurs and individuals for private security in some future will be far greater. Judita Popovic spoke about the LDP's position on these two laws. I'm going to talk a little bit more about details, because this is a unique search, which we have observations on certain members of these laws. First of all, I'm gonna talk about the private security law. In Article 12 of the proposed law, Mr Dacic, you predict that a license can be issued for the performance of the private security business, among other things, of an authorised police officer. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that in certain countries, such licences can be issued whether for detectives or private security only after five years of termination of employment. You said, and I think I understood you well, that it would be a bad application, such a provision, here in Serbia, given that you have too many police officers. Is that what you're saying, Prime Minister, is there going to be layoffs at the M.P.P. and the police? If you say there's too many employees, I assume that's what you think one number of workers will do, so that you don't get fired, cross over and do these private security jobs. I have to ask you next. What made you say this would only apply to authorized police officers? Why not for employees of special or certain duties, for example for the issue of weapons? Why are you making discrimination in that sense, Mr. Dacic? Why does this member of the law apply exclusively to authorized police officers and not to workers who work, for example, in arms jobs? So, according to this law, they won't have the right to get a license. We don't think that's right. By Article 15 of that same law, you say the application for a license is submitted to the Ministry through the local police department. Which is why only through the police department, when we know there are police stations? Let me give you a specific example. So, in all the districts you have police administration, so there are, for example, police administration in Bor, police administration in Zajecar, and police stations, it's defined by the Law on Police members 24 and 25, are, for example, in Negotin, Majdanpek, Kladov. What's the reason someone travels to Bor or someone from the Library goes to Zaječar to submit one such request, when it's quite clear that you'll be doing a security check and every other check through police stations? You tell that same member in Section 2 what the police department is, but the police law clearly defines what police administration is and what a police station is. We find it completely unnecessary for everything to go through the police department. We think it's enough to get the application filed to the police station, which can later forward it to the police department. Also, in Article 17, paragraph 2, the appeal is said to be made to the ministry. Since this law is related to the Law on Weapons and Ammunition and the Law on Police, we think that the appeal should be made to the Minister, because if, for the purchase of weapons, under the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, and if you are in the law on detective activity, you have prescribed that the complaint be submitted to the Minister, there is no reason for him to be here then in Article 17 of the Ministry. We believe it should be the same as the Law on Weapons and the Bill on Detective Action, where the appeal is filed by the Minister. In Article 24, it is incomprehensible for me that you legally provide that the supply of weapons requires the approval of the ministry. And why not the ammunition? You know, we think it's necessary to approve the ministry and to get weapons and to get ammunition, because you can't allow anyone to buy ammunition without any approval. Mr. Dacic, we are all statistics among the first countries in the world by the number of weapons found in private persons, with citizens. Unfortunately, we're among the last countries in the economy. In Article 28, it is necessary to define where the target practice is performed. You'll agree that someone can't go to the meadow and practice. So it's supposed to be in open-and-close shooters. For this reason, we believe that this Article 28 needs to be complemented by the practice of target practice being performed exclusively in authorised organisations, means shooters, regardless of whether they are open or closed. Same or similar remarks, Mr. Dacic, we have a law on detective activity. In this law, in article 6, you also prescribe a license to do detective work and you also take into account only authorised police officers. You may not have had to schedule a five-year deadline here, but at least you had to schedule a period of at least three years after you stopped working so police officers could get a license. You'll agree that as long as they're working with the police, if they've filed a request today for an end of a working relationship, they still have certain contacts, and we think they'd be ahead of those who've never worked in the police. Articles 9 to 13 You're prescribing certain deadlines in which someone needs to return the detective's identification card. In five days, right? But it doesn't stand anywhere within what time the M.O.P. has to issue a license. So there's no deadline for that. We consider that a 15-day period is sufficient. The same goes for ID. Otherwise, it can be interpreted as such that when someone submits a request, you can give him a license within five days, someone for a month, someone for three, and someone for a year. That's why we think that's where the license should have been issued. Article 16(7) prescribes 12 hours in order to notify the nearest police administration if firearms are used. That 12-hour period is not enough, because you have previously prescribed that a detective will inform the responsible person in the legal person within 12 hours, and then it certainly takes another 12 hours for the legal person to inform the competent police administration. That's why we think that's where the 24-hour deadline should be. We believe that Article 30 relating to data protection is very badly defined and that such a definition of Article 30 may lead to abuse. I trust you didn't mean to. In the end, I want to tell you next, Mr. Prime Minister. I know you didn't write this law, not even as the Home Secretary of the Detectives Act. So far, maybe no one has brought it up and maybe someone doesn't think it's relevant, but I don't think it's right for us to get a bill like this, I'm only talking about detective activity, which has too many spelling and grammatical errors. So, not the press. It also speaks of the education of civil servants. It generally speaks of what we are in the education system, which we of LDP think is very bad and needs to change the education system in this country. Mr. Dacic, I have to say, it's a good thing you pulled out of the procedure the law on civil servants and the law on state administration, because these proposals, which we were supposed to discuss yesterday, would have put the state administration back 10, 20 years. I don't think that should be the government's interest. The two proposals were political proposals. Since I believe you're going to refer these bill proposals to us again in the procedure, I'm taking the opportunity to tell you something. Prime Minister, it's bad for the county chiefs to be officials. It means that anyone, with a primary school, could, and so far, had to take the seventh degree, passed the state's exam. It's bad that from the seventh degree you allow and you lower the level of qualification to the sixth degree for administrative affairs. It's very bad that you're introducing officers in office. It's an absolute politicization of the state administration. Since you've already withdrawn these two draft laws from the process, which is why I've just said it, I hope you'll think about it before you bring them back here to parliament, because we think it takes a serious reform of the state administration to make the state administration as effective as it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26676	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26677	Thank you. The chairman, Prime Minister and Interior Minister, colleagues from the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior, fellow MPs, I will focus my discussion on a set of laws in the area of private security, in fact the only security area in the security system of the Republic of Serbia, which remains unsettled. These are these two laws, the law on detective activity and the law on private security, of course, not diminishing the importance of the other draft laws that are in this united search. At the beginning, I would like to commend the great effort that the MUP made during the previous period in the process of preparing a legal framework for the regulation of these areas since 2010, when the first draft of the private security law and detective work was made. The act was later divided into two draft laws which suffered major changes after a broad debate and in two circles. Many amendments and suggestions have been introduced in both draft laws, which the Prime Minister spoke of and the amendments and suggestions of different ministries, the Commissioner for the Protection of Personality Data and the Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the Association for Private Security and Detective Action, as well as representatives of civil society. This has been said in previous discussions. This issue has not been regulated by EU legal assets, but all member states have regulated the private security segment in line with their legal order and their strategic definitions in the area of security. Starting with that, the Republic of Serbia, as we can see, regulates the area in line with the National Security Strategy, which was adopted in 2009, although the two laws have been under way for a decade. It is clear that there is no uniform model of legal solutions that govern this area, but the model that we can and want to build must be consistent with both our legal system and our national strategy, and with social circumstances, of course taking care of some trends in EU Member States and the world. In the discussion, I would refer to a number of concrete solutions from the bill itself. First of all, the licenses they need to obtain both legal and physical persons to deal with these matters. Namely, licenses are a defense for abuse. They provide quality, control and records in business and security and detective activity. Licences are precisely set in both laws for different services, which primarily protects both users of services and establishes standards in business. The laws establish a mechanism of strict supervision and control of all entities in the system to perform the MUP. I suppose that, such as the practice in countries in the region, a special organisational unit will also be formed within the framework of the MUP to deal with surveillance and thus will be a priority. When it comes to the quality of work, the quality of the work of a person who will deal with private security or detective activity certainly provides that quality with a training programme that will be defined by sublegal acts brought by the minister. It is extremely important that private security workers have different skills in order to prevent them from working in due time, because we have witnessed many accidents in previous years that have far greater consequences because of the work gaps and intricacies of the persons who have worked in security. In order to prevent all possible risks, the negative consequences that can be caused by unprofessional and unprofessional private security activities, should be considered to provide for a basic course of fire protection and a basic course of first aid. In view of Article 16 of the Law on Detective Action, it is envisaged that the detective's skills are to provide first aid and it is important that the detective's training and training programme is also included as an element of first aid. When it comes to the opposition's objections, when it comes to the protection of personal data, it is extremely important to repeat it both for citizens and for the public in general, that the MUP has on several occasions conducted consultations with the Commissioner for the Protection of Secret Personal Data. All the proposed solutions are absolutely in line with the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and any doubt can be removed by the fact that the adoption of these laws begins the establishment of a system that will regulate these areas. The SPS MPs have submitted several amendments, which we wanted to specify some of the provisions of both laws. In the proposal for a law on detective activity, we believe it is important that all persons responsible in the legal person who performs the detective's work, as well as individuals who will be detectives, must pass the appropriate security verification by the MUP, bearing in mind the fact that significant powers are entrusted to them precisely by obtaining a licence. This is particularly important when it comes to accessing information and using weapons, which of course was the case, and my colleagues discussed it before me. In consultations with representatives from professional circles, as well as with private security officials, certain legal solutions affecting the budget of legal persons to deal with this activity have been highlighted. Here we have proposed two concrete solutions and we hope that it will be adopted. They are similar to the solutions of fellow MPs from the SNS, Momira. The first solution, we believe, is that most of the legal entities involved in this activity have a 7.65-caliber weapon. As the bill provides for the use of 9 millimetres, we have proposed the amendment to enable, in addition to that caliber, a 7.65 caliber. Another important issue covered by our amendment concerns the increase in the security of the transport of money by legal entities and entrepreneurs who have licences, i.e. licenses to carry out money transport security operations. The proposed amendments reduce the actual costs that legal persons will have, in accordance with this law, be able to deal with these activities. All amendments to the SPS, colleagues from the parliamentary group will discuss details. In the end, I want to say that there are finally roof laws on the agenda from the area and private security and detective action that will improve the concept of public private partnership in the Republic of Serbia. The very importance of these laws is also the fact of great interest, both to the public and to the fellow Members of Parliament who have submitted over 100 amendments to these two draft laws in the previous days. I would once again like to congratulate the MUP, which has best prepared the legal framework for the regulation of these areas. Certainly, the SPS will support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26678	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26679	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament today, we are discussing the so-called The third pillar of security in a country where citizens are often afraid, and of those who need to protect them as much as those they should protect them from. There's a lot of each other, and there's often no clear boundaries or lines on who's on this side of the law. There is a real danger that this line will disappear completely. Maybe this law is a chance to finally get some things in order. In the private security sector, there is hardly any precise data, and I am not surprised, because the state does not even know what it has in its possession, so why would it know who and how it should protect its property and the property of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It's supposed to be between 25 and 60 thousand people. It is an army of armed men and certainly more than the number of regular armed forces of the Republic of Serbia. The estimate that they have 50,000 pieces of weaponry, so 50 tons of dangerous iron, and if I'm not mistaken for the data that I have available to the MUP is here somewhere with a number of weapons, about 53,000. So that's enough talking about what's going on. People plus weapons plus a certain interest brings us to a serious market worth almost 200m euros, which is completely unregulated. We've heard from several discussions that over three thousand registered companies are involved in this business, and we all know that there's a huge number of unregistered service providers. There has been virtually no regulation in this area for decades, there is no uniform approach, there are no conditions and no rules are respected. That's why we read almost every day in the Serbian press who keeps Belgrade rafts -- murderers, police officers, criminals and fans' leaders, fathomed guys who hire directly club owners, and they don't need any permission, alleys, former boxers and drug dealers who agree to behave like that for 20.30 euros. These groups that do business hold a drug deal, and that's all that matters, and working under a security mask, that's not a secret. As a consequence of all this, we have murders, and riots, and shootings, and frequent abuses and overzealous powers. Most often, individuals who are engaged by unregistered organisations or individuals do so. By identifying the duties of official, private security and natural persons, including members of the Ministry of the Interior, outside the regular duty, if members of various cheerleading groups who, contrary to the applicable regulations and on an unknown legal basis, assume the duty and security of the facilities are severely violated by the reputation of the private security activity. Does the private security law regulate a ban on police officers to regulate themselves? Is that ban always respected? We all know that's not the case. Does the Law on the Police provide that the minister, or you, should prescribe with his act the incompatibility of certain matters to be carried out by members of the police? It's predicting. But such acts have not yet been brought to you, Mr. Minister. That's why we often get cops to be actors of many unkind events we read about in the press. That's why our clubs are provided with mahogany by members of the MUP, which is why some members of the MUP, as they say, trade as security for rafts and cafes and for private employers, are taking out debts and doing other dirty work. That's what they do on black, breaking all official police regulations. It's an army of several thousand people, who, in the afternoon and evening, take off their uniform and with official weapons, rushes to other jobs. All the deadlines prescribed by these laws that I was talking about, to say the proper deadlines that could have been used were unfortunately breached and therefore we fear that even if this law does not have such coverage, it will not produce certain results. The work of all these companies and individuals means providing certain services. At this point, who provides such services? The motive of a firefight in which three young men were wounded in front of the Free Stailer raft on Saturday is the struggle of the majority fan groups at security jobs in Belgrade's nightclubs. Although the bill was announced the day before, the police did nothing to prevent it. The police in this case have shown complete impotence. How powerless the police have proved to be that the group continued the fight and the Emergency Center. We're getting into a situation where hooligans are stronger than the state. The investigation found that the only motive was the struggle for supremacy in security affairs. We're all aware that this is inadmissible and this has to get in the way. I read the other day about the security of our biggest stadium and the derby which was played that fans said that if they wanted to, they could bring the cannon to the stands, and the fire in the southern tribune was a private fire extinguisher, which couldn't even throw up the first five rows of the Maracane Stadium's stands, we need this law. Many amendments have been submitted. The DSS parliamentary group has also invested a number of amendments and certainly depends on their acceptance on what this law will eventually look like. I'm interested in the fact that I haven't found any information in the reasons of the law, or it says no additional means are needed to enforce this law, who's going to be in charge of these matters? Will the MUP hire certain people, certain services to deal with this? When we talk about the Law of Detective Action, I get the impression and I get the idea that this bill was written by someone who's seen a lot of movies and wants to introduce Hollywood and Bollywood into Serbia because it turns out that like everything else we have, everything else is arranged, everything works out the best way possible, just now we're missing armed detectives with guns. I fear that this law, if adopted in this form, will create a certain legal uncertainty that applies first and foremost to the possibility of unlimited access to personal data, and that this data-gathering person has no possibility of judicial protection or any other institutional protection. The protection of personal data is not mentioned, nor is the protection of citizens' privacy in the right way. What's going on with that data collected by a certain detective agency, so she stopped working, what happens if a detective doesn't God forbid he dies? What happens in real life, unlike these popular movies. Who's taking over that record and that data? I hope it doesn't end up in Belgrade's tabloids. It's a huge problem, and we talked about it earlier, about criminal records, and we need to find a quality solution, but whether it's irrelevant or important, it's not clear to me that you wrote in the bill that some detective, a Serbian Poirot, has the authority to collect information about an anonymous person. I really don't understand how it's going to work out. By contracting detective activity between service providers and its users, you directly disrupt this way unless the law is amended through the amendment technique and by the Constitution and by the laws of guaranteed rights. The detective under this law is left with a 12-hour deadline to report the use of firearms, and the result may be a serious physical injury, and sometimes there may be a fatal outcome, which is directly contrary to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Some parliamentary groups have tried to lecture this law. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that in this form it cannot be corrected through amendments to the Law on Detective Action and that is why we will not support this law because we believe it is full of arbitraryness and creates opportunities for abuses. I urge you once again to look at and accept the amendments to the DSS that we have submitted to the Private Security Act because we consider it to be a very important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26680	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26681	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, respected ministers and fellow MPs, these two laws that I plan to speak of, and I see that most colleagues are talking about, about private security and detective action, are very challenging for MPs, looks and opposition and positions, not only because, on the one hand, it is easy to attack him, and I don't think that it is even though there are elements and dots that need to attack him, and expecting that in the future, the amendments that point to some failures will be adopted, and not because it is difficult for us to defend him, because every MP can defend him because there are things that have shown that the MUP is such a bill, as counterpart Stojanovic said before me, showed the ability and willingness to resist the really powerful lobbys that rule in this area. I can tell you that as an MP for this time until I'm in the Assembly I've seen a bigger and more influential lobby than a lobby in this area. I think it is a great responsibility for all MPs not to become exhibits, as well as the Ministry itself seems to me which has succeeded, any private and particular interests, especially in this area that is important from a number of points of view, and it is important not only because one area is legally regulated, but it is an area that has security and economic and social interests, if you will, and the cultural dimension and it is really inadmissible to the fact that, here I have heard criticism of the people who have spoken about what is missing from this law, I will also talk about some, but it is amazing that it is the law that has been since 2010, but it has not since 2003 when the first version of the bill has been put in place by the MUP, so it has not been possible for some strange pathways of these laws to disappear, and it has gone into the procedure, so it has gone back and it has gone back and it has been back in the procedure, so it has reentering itself, without, without, I will not be able to agree with the visible, with the visible arguments. Did they exist? They did. There were round tables, seminars. There's been talk in the media, but let's just say that there's been a public debate in the last two years. I wouldn't call her visible. There was more of an attempt by lobby groups to promote their interests that would be incorporated into the bill. That's why I want to say that this kind of lobby that's been being talked about and has somehow contributed to the prolonging of the passing of such an important law, is both business and parts of police and criminals over the last 10 or 12 years. Indeed, I would not, on the other hand, take all responsibility for these circles, given that those who sit in this House and who have sat, as well as those who have been and who are representatives of the authorities, have their own degree of responsibility, because we do not need to be exhibits of any interest and should show integrity both as MPs and as representatives of the authorities. So it's everyone's responsibility, and that's why I think it's very important that we finally came. Again, I say, really, although I don't like to do it, I really congratulate the Ministry of the Interior which finally managed to create a version that, although not ideal, and how well it does or starts to regulate such an important segment. What does it matter? So, the lack of legal regulation that existed in this area has extorted really many problems and phenomena that always arise when we have a lack or a lack of legal regulation and because of that question - what we really want to achieve by such a bill, is, that is, the answer that I can give as an MP in my view of the bill, is actually that this law should not be in line with anyone until the end. What does that mean? This means that in this area we have one triangle of interest in relation to the interests of citizens, the rights of their human rights and the protection of property and personal security, on the other hand the state and its legitimate national interests and on the third side of businesses, companies that also have, by what they are European standards and what we are seeking, and that is also the rule of law and pluralism in the competition and market economy, and ultimately, they have the right to deal with such actions. That's why I think it is very important that the success of this bill is that it seems to me that it is neither too restrictive nor too liberal in relation to the provisions it prescribes. Here's what it would mean if I were to write something right now, so I'm just trying to be precise, but now I've been looking at the bill. So there's no pre-regulatory and there's not too many restrictive provisions, because that's how we'd come into one position of the transmutation of a state approach, some ethical approach, and we'd really choke a private initiative in that way, and I think it's a really big problem in the current economic circumstances and social circumstances, and that would lead to a reduction of some tax revenues and indeed one situation where we can hardly get out of the vicious circle of the gray economy, and that's why I think that in this sense very good solutions are given by this bill. On the other hand, if we were too broad and free to edit this sector, then we would lead to a situation where there is a reduction in supervision and government roles, primarily in controlling this sector and we would open the door to the possibility of serious human rights violations and one possibility of actually being a country that would be stratified in a security way, which means that we would have a security stratification between them that can afford security and those who can't. It's the introduction of another division into our society, and it's a sufficiently divided society, and that's why I think they're pretty balanced provisions. In that sense, I did intervene, I think it's Article 16. The law on detective activity, which in some ways also relates to the Law on Private Security, where a provision on the ban on the use of devices for secret data collection through electronic surveillance, or electronic communications surveillance, was to be introduced. I hope you'll appreciate that, because it's really important. On the other hand, in the private security bill, I had several interventions. However, what confused me, and I hope that the legislator will correct it, was a member of the 45th that concerned self-protective activity, which lists legal persons and entrepreneurs who can organise self-protective activities, etc. "Legal persons" is indeed a broad term and legal persons fall and all authorities of the state administration and the Ministry of Defence and BIA and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I really ask you to correct and specify in a legal sense, so that they do not turn out to be licensed by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I really ask you to correct and specify in a legal sense, that they too should be licensed by the Ministry of Self-Protect. It seems to me, one perhaps unintentioned, I understand in what sense a mistake or inaccuracy may have been stolen, but it's very confusing for me, so I'd like it to be corrected. The second segment that has been discussed here, and fellow MPs have talked about, is obtaining a license from the MUP, and that is an excellent solution, not to mention that some strange agencies, which we don't even know how they came about, give licenses to those who represent an integral part of national security, because this sector is also an integral part of what's called the National Security Strategy. What is important is that when a licence is obtained, that licence should mean a certain standard in providing a particular service. It's very important, and for that reason, I think they'll collect in the future the price of these services, which I don't know if it's good or bad, but in any case, it'll certainly be one of the consequences. As far as the surveillance is concerned, it seems to me that a colleague before me has asked me a question about how in the organisational sense of the MUP will be resolved? You know that the basic principle in the state administration, or at least it should be, is that the structure monitors jobs, not the business structure. So if the structure follows jobs, I assume that you, and I didn't see it in the bill, will set up a special department or an organisational unit to deal with the supervision of the licensing process itself. Otherwise, I don't even think it would be bad for that list of licensed agencies to be available to the public and that the licensing procedure might be subject to some kind of control by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. I'm not a member of that committee, but I've been visiting a session of that committee and I've seen that it might also be one of the things that will strengthen civilian and democratic surveillance over this segment. Just a few more things, mostly everything's said about this. I say again, I think that some of the shortcomings in these amendments and the willingness of the government and the minister to accept these amendments will significantly improve. But what I would like to really be a message from this bill is that the state still cannot allow security companies to become competition in providing the security that the state provides to everyone. It is, however, something that must be clear, given that, as I have already said, they are an integral part of national security. This raises the issue that has already been raised by other MPs, the question of the possibility that, at the outset, I listened carefully, there are rather reasonable arguments that those who are former members of some of the security services or the MUP should not perform these activities. Once again, I agree with the arguments made by the minister, but on the other hand, I do consider it to be a once-in-a-time danger that the knowledge that they have come to by working in the authorities of the state administration is being used for commercial purposes. I have a really big problem with understanding that, because I think that our freedom is, as John Stuart Mill used to say - the restriction of our freedom is the freedom of another. Therefore, we must bear in mind the balance between the need to protect human and civil rights and rights and the protection of national security, and in this respect the private agencies involved must bear in mind this principle. All in all, I think this is a good initiative, a good bill, and we'll see what time period won't change again, whether it's going to live in practice, so we'll see how effective it is. What I have to say right now is that, as with some other laws in this area, we have a problem with missing sublaws. That's the way it is with the Privacy Policy. I think it's also the case with this bill, but it certainly shouldn't be run by us if anyone doesn't vote for this law. On the contrary, this is indeed one first and serious step in editing this important segment. Because of this, and especially because of what previous MPs have said, because of the number of people employed there, their rights ultimately, we know that very often private security workers experience permanent violations and their labour and economic rights, so I think this is certainly a good basis and we will certainly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26682	Thank you. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break, and we're still working at 16 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26683	We're going back to work. Right now, let me say that we've reached an agreement on how to work, and that's how we'll respect it. So now he has the word Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26684	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the government, these two laws treat one segment of the security system that has not been regulated so far, and which is why our country was probably a unique case in Europe. As far as the private security law is concerned, it is estimated, because accurate data is not going to work in this entire sector for about 50,000 people, and it deals with about 3,000 registered, unregistered organisations for this activity, which own several tens of thousands of pieces of firearms. That is why this entire sector requires special state control to be established by this law. The key will be the introduction of licenses for doing this job and for both companies and entrepreneurs, as well as for the natural persons themselves, who will form a working relationship with them. The conditions for obtaining a license for employment are quite numerous, so, in future, to deal with these professions, they will require at least medium professional preparation, psychophysical ability, training in the handling of firearms and security checks. It may also be possible to consider the condition that potential candidates are not convicted and that criminal proceedings are not being conducted against them. Specific additional conditions are foreseen for the performance of technical protection activities, where the least medium professional interest of the technical profession will be sought. Another significant newspaper is that these security jobs will be done from now on only on the basis of a written contract between interested parties, where it will be clear what is being provided, in what size and at what time. The law itself recognises a dozen types of security jobs and sets specific requirements and standards for each of them, which are also well-set, although here I would also have to notice that it seems illogical to me that in Article 24 strictly prescribes the type and caliber of weapons that security can possess, and why it restricts the possibility of a legal person engaged in this activity to own weapons, all for half of the workers who have the necessary security licenses. A very important part of the law is also the chapter six, i.e. the members of 46 to 57, where the powers of security officers are prescribed. This is a particularly important part of the law because it foresees that powers apply only in a protected facility or space, and that measures must be applied step by step with the least possible adverse consequences. This is of particular importance because in practice there have often been cases that members of individual private security, instead of protecting only what they are in charge of, have acted as minors as police officers and in violation of a number of citizens' rights, have posed a potential threat to public order and peace. These are also related to solutions that will allow these jobs to be carried out from now on only in the prescribed uniform that can be worn exclusively during the performance of the work and with the possession of the ID. The second law we're dealing with today is the draft law on detective activity. This is one of the laws that treats the domain of security, and these jobs of collecting different types of information, the process of association over the past two decades often with illegal methods of tracking or forcing citizens. This also imposes the need to license companies and individuals who would like to deal with this activity. And here are the conditions laid down for private security matters, but I'm surprised there are no mention of any security checks in front of potential candidates, no prior convictions as a condition for dealing with this activity. The data-gathering business here will only be possible on the basis of a contract for specific purposes. Articles 17 to 21 regulate the way data is collected and processed. It is particularly important here to highlight Article 20, which regulates the provision of data to detectives from public registers. I think the current formulas are that giving a deadline of data is only a possibility, not a strict obligation of state institutions. The question arises whether this solution is also in line with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, but it should nevertheless be found between the right to privacy from one and the possibility to prevent various types of abuse of rights from the other, which I consider to have been done in the right way by the provisions of Article 30. The proposal for a law where it is said that these data can only be used for the purpose for which they have been collected and cannot be given to third parties or published publicly as in the next article where the obligation to keep secrets that are learned during the course of the work is prescribed. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that the current absence of legislation in these areas has created a broad and dangerous gray zone in which there are no clear limits to what should be, and what must not be done that has often led to deaths among citizens. In doing so, the adoption of these laws imposes priority and our parliamentary group will vote for these two laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26685	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26686	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are, as in that people's - Mitr's tribute - the Hajduk's separation. But according to the laws that are passed, Mitr's tribute and hiduk's separation only in the folk song. Hajduciju towards Serbian citizens is not giving up. These laws we are discussing today, the draft law on detective activity and the proposal for a private security law, are an ideal opportunity for us to hear the interior minister criticise the Prime Minister and how the Prime Minister criticises the interior minister. But we also heard the opposition criticizing both. When we criticized you that you did not foresee in this law the possibility that under this law persons convicted of serious crimes get a license to perform and to do detective work and to do private security work, you replied that we were guilty because we changed the Criminal Law. We've changed it together, so that we understand each other immediately, and by the voices of the SPS and DS, and we don't have that record of the perpetrators anymore. But, you know, if there's something wrong with our legal system, if it's found that some law wasn't good enough, good enough and good enough, it's no problem to change it. At least it's easy to collect the required majority of 126, and we don't have a problem with the DS vote if there's going to be a problem in that law. Don't tell us that nothing has changed with you and that we alone have gone into opposition. At least you were Minister of the Interior here, you are neither Minister of the Interior nor Prime Minister. That's all Wolfie. This bad company just broke down in 15 months. On the other hand, there's something I have to blame you for. You, as Prime Minister, should not flaunt with Biljana Srbanovic, especially in this parliament. She's not a folk MP. She's a free artist. Can you imagine Pasic's plight with Nusic? What would the earth look like? When it comes to two problematic laws, I must tell you that I am very skeptical when it comes to these laws. It is true that this area should be regulated by law, and by the law of private security and detective activity. But what exactly do we get from these laws and under what circumstances do we bring these laws? I can't close my eyes to the fact that we're passing these laws after the kidnapping of DS members in Vrbas who were taken to the SNS premises. That's not what the court epilogue got until today. We still don't know what's going on with the terrible situation that two DS members were kidnapped and taken to SNS rooms where they were beaten, bullied and threatened. Is this law now creating legal preconditions for strengthening dictatorship and forming assault party squads? Will armed private troops run election campaigns in Serbia? I do not dispute the need for these laws to be passed. I absolutely accept all the reasons that the Home Secretary presented when it comes to these laws, but I have to go back to the circumstances in which the laws are passed. We have a situation that this government has started a general amnesty of those convicted of serious crimes and we have shown you that this is a very dangerous precedent, primarily for you from the SNS, that it is not good to thank you in such a way for the number of votes received in prisons throughout Serbia. You insisted that this amnesia be declared, and then we had a terrifying increase in violence. You, in your party voices, I think of you from the SNS, in your party bulletins, have provided frightening information about the situation in the Nisk squad of the gendarmes. That was just amazing. You've clapped us with such information in those two party newspapers and tabloids, that's where the terrible things happen, etc. I'll just read you the headlines... (Chairman: Mr. Milivojevic, yet you return to the agenda, please. I will, Mr. Chairman. It is said: “Terrible abuses in the Low squad of the gendarmes – before noon, provide criminals to be arrested this afternoon. ” It's about personal security. It is further said: “Requetted privates”, “We had listening equipment” – all related to these two laws. I bring my opinion of the police first and foremost on the basis of these honorable men I see here when I come to the Parliament building. First I meet the cops. They're all professionals, top-notch, raised, cultural. Look at these officers sitting in the hall - an example of what a cop should look like. For all the praises. It's the police I want to have in the Republic of Serbia. It's the police I have a lot of faith in. My opinion of the police is based on those cops that I drive from a toll ramp every day and works at the Police Brigade. My opinion of the police is based on those officers who laid their lives on the altar of country, defending law and order in this country. Slobodan Cvetic, Aleksandar Rkman, Željko Zečević, Vladimir Gradic, it is excellent that you take care of their families, their children, hand them packages, make sure they are schooled, that they are good citizens of this country as well as their fathers, and that they are not forgotten. Goran Djordjevic was the last to die, a few days ago in Bujanovac. Over 1,300 officers were injured. I'm building a police opinion based on these people. We have a situation to cultivate a culture of violence in Serbia. He's right. He's right. He's got stronger muscles, a better gun, and a better sniper, not better arguments. (President: Mr. Milivojevic, I remind you that this is about the law on private security, not the law on police. Please return to the topic. I was going to say that there were words here that cops work as cops in the morning, and they work as private security this afternoon. It's a much bigger problem that we have members of organised crime groups working as security. As far as the law goes, this isn't the law we wrote. We have prepared certain legal provisions, and the lecturing and editorial preparation of these laws belongs to someone else. I must blame you first of all the essence of the law, and finally what it says here. So here we have a situation to say in these laws in many places that the minister will prepare a sublegal act. Do you know they're protesting auto-schools right now because no one's done legal information for two years? A number of people work in auto-schools like private security. The same problem is the ineffectiveness of the government for these people, as it will be if there are no sublegal acts to regulate the Security Act. If I tell you that there are grammatical bad weather definitions here in many places, for example – safe, security services. Services can be security, but they can't be "safe". Because the noun from which the adjective was made is security. They may be safety carriers, but they can't be "safe". I can't "do a duty" but do a duty. But ask Professor John Klein, he'll be much more helpful than I am if he's in a mood, and he's much more learned. I have fundamental objections when it comes to the law on detective activity. It is true and I accept, Mr. Dacic, that it must be ensured that people who are not convicted of the most serious crimes cannot work on private security matters. But they can't even work for people who worked for the police today, who, for example, worked in a department that deals with heavy theft and car theft. Because he's got a list of 50, 60 stolen cars and these items on him. He resigns today, goes to work at a private detective agency the next day. I think it's a conflict of interest. I'm absolutely sure you think so, too. 'Cause that's not right, and I think we need to take a break. Still, it's sensitive business. At least some inter-periode to go on for two years. I handed over one amendment to ask for it. I've turned in amendments that say that people who were convicted of domestic violence can't work on these jobs. At least there's a record. Under the latest criminal code, there's a criminal record where all the people who committed the acts of rape are enrolled. At least these people shouldn't be rewarded by the state, so there's no problem in checking whether they're convicted or not. The problem is that the law does not apply, and no other person is listed in the rapist records, especially sexually aggressive acts against minors. That's about the fact that laws aren't exactly passed in the best way. I have to quote citizen Milo Basta, she tells me like this - during the debate – Dacic says that about 50,000 armed people work in private security companies in Serbia. You're making a big mistake, Mr. Dacic, they're working with the police. That's what I was talking about earlier. I don't think all these people work in the police force, but I think there's a particular problem here. The problem exists in the following – who will control in the evening the people who work on the rafts as security or are potentially engaged in some detective activity? It is known that things happen in Belgrade's nightlife, there may be a lady, or a gentleman hires a detective, to do some things in his private life. Then there's a detective who wants to get on the raft, we've got armed security on the raft, and then we've got police intervention brigades coming into control. Who's going to check these people's license, deal with security rafts along Sava and Danube? Who's going to say - who's the head of these security guards here? How are they going to legitimize them, how are they going to determine, what if they're keeping the detective, what if the detective keeps them? It's all the things that practice imposes and life, not me and my imagination. On the other hand, and again, I'm not undermining the necessity of the legal arrangement of this area, but I'm just talking about what life is. Do you remember how there were rough scenes in the Zajecar elections, and then in Vrbas, I'm not talking about this in Kosovo Mitrovica. We still don't know if Mr Dinkic was on a religious visit or if he was on a mission. I want to live in a state that won't capitulate in front of violence. I want to live in a country where the thugs won't determine whether there's gonna be a pride parade, whether there's going to be a game, whether there's going to be a derby, whether there's going to be a choice on the Vozdovac, by having to practice at the gym that the extremists put on the Vozdovac, whether I'm going to have to declare myself on legal proposals by going to them first to pass the Amandans on to the law, and then hand them over to the office. It's the atmosphere of fear and fear. It's fostering violence. In the end, I have to tell you, and when it comes to this law now and detective activity and private security, you need to look at all of the people who are on the warrants right now, because of organized crime, they have registered security agencies. Mr. Stefanovic said one of them is Darko Saric. I hope not everyone will be able to register, but there are very strict rules that a man should meet for the registration of these activities. There are some powers that we give to these people. I have a particular disputed authority whereby people from private security can hold a person and not immediately inform the police about it, but allegedly has an obligation to inform the police immediately, but if he is not able, in the shortest possible time. What is the shortest possible time when two members and DS activists are detained in SNS rooms? Is it an hour, is it two hours, is it eight hours, does it take time for them to beat them up, beat them up, or is it a shorter time? What are we gonna do the next day when private security comes to kidnap the councilmen? We have a budget vote, the majority is thin, maybe most of them fall in some place in Serbia, and by chance they keep it for two days until they get a job in a public enterprise and then someone keeps it out of their own volition. That's what the law says, I'm just reading what the law predicted. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the place: The one you were working.) At least if you don't want to listen to me, listen to the party president, it's not nice to throw away. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the place: I learned it from you. ) It's nice to learn from the best, it's not a problem, but the problem is that you started learning from the worse than you and that they lead you on the road, there's the problem. To conclude, the gentleman announced a re-count these days with criminal groups of hooligans who are considered fans, and have nothing to do with fans, we are constantly getting announcements that there will be arrests, detentions, and of all that we have only a further humiliation of the Republic of Serbia, which is constantly taking hold of the violent ones. If you need support here, you'll have support. I'm sorry that with this package of laws, I'm going to tell you the end of it, you haven't passed any changes and the Arms and Ammunition Act. As DS, we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Arms and Ammunition Act, and I will immediately tell you what we predicted here? We've predicted that every citizen, every person with a firearm, is required to do a medical examination within the next year to see if that person is psycho-physically capable of handling weapons. I don't know if the M.O.P. is preparing changes and additions to the Arms and Ammunition Act, but it could have been, that law we handed over after the tragedy in Big Ivanca. Thirteen citizens of the Republic of Serbia were killed. After that, a few days ago, we had in Val's situation that two people were killed from a legal weapon and I think it's bad that you don't accept such laws, which is waiting for you to pass your laws. I have to tell you, we have a lot of amendments and we're going to have an even more vivid debate when we discuss amendments than this law in principle, but I urge you to accept the DS amendments, even if this law will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26687	Replica Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26688	Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have daily been exposed to gebbels' tortures. Many times told a lie, perhaps sometimes it becomes true. You have, Mr. President, a long parliamentary and political experience. I think you remember that one of the first laws of 2001 adopted by the new government was the Amnesty Act. It was an amnesty law. It is now respected here that the SNS has brought amnesty into the political scene and into parliamentary life. Only this government lets criminals loose, and in 2001 some lighthouses went free. Now that we're on amnesty, I'd like to move on to amnesia, and amnesia is what every such speech sends to the citizens of Serbia, so they forget some things. I have the Community Police Act here. In Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the Law on Community Police adopted the previous assembly of the National Assembly. It says -- a municipal police officer in both Belgrade and every city in Serbia can be sentenced to jail for up to six months. What's up with that? We're forgetting. Amnesia. Let's move on. Here's the law of bankruptcy, even worse, the bankruptcy director by the law that passed the previous council, we can also talk about who defended this bankruptcy bill. A bankruptcy manager may be sentenced to a prison sentence of up to five years. To whom you have given the property acquired by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you are now disgusted, God forbid, some criminals will come out, someone will carry a weapon. You gave up guns, you gave up property, what about it? Just amnesia and amnesia. We have a long enough mind to remember everything that's been done here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26689	Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26690	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, amnesia is a wonderful disease. You hear something new every day, and nothing hurts. However, the truth knows that it hurts a lot. We passed the Amnesty Act because this country was filled with prisons filled with prisoners for political crime. You have classified a criminal act - a people's enemy, a traitor. Do you know how many people we found in prisons after 2000? Because they fought against a regime whose backbones were your current party president and former party president. Did you forget that? Do you know how many people we found in prisons that were charged with the most serious crimes? Is that what I need to remind you of? Do I need to remind you of Bogoljub Arsenievich Maki, whom you broke your jaw, who you maimed? Should I remind you of Ivan Novkovic? To the 4,600 members of the Resistance, who you sent to prison just because they knew what you were and what you were going to do with this country and what stopped you from doing it? Does that hurt? It's supposed to hurt. That truth must hurt you, and I will always remind you of it. You're responsible for the prisons being filled with political prisoners. When it comes to bankruptcy managers, so Mr. Radulovic is the most famous bankruptcy manager. Don't talk like that about your government minister. It's not nice. Now a man's uncomfortable watching this transmission. Is it possible that you have such a bad opinion about the man you chose as minister? What's your worst, if these are your best? I'm scared for the future of this country. I must ask that an emergency law be passed in this House on the protection of citizens from this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26691	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26692	It's a strange name for Flyor Brovina. A political prisoner released in 2001. Drenic Group, Albanian terrorists. That's terrible. Amnesia again. Besides, I'd prefer those political pamphlets, which are often heard here. Let's talk about the law. Why was the 2001 Law much more liberal than this Amnesty Act that was adopted and adopted? Was it then that the political opponents who ended up in prison were paedophiles, rapists, all those you released in 2001? This Law on Amnesty, adopted by this National Assembly, was much more rigid, much stricter. Let's compare that, and I'd very much like to see those 1,300 Albanian terrorists who as political non-equal end up here. Secondly, I didn't say anything wrong, nor do I have the right to say anything bad about any bankruptcy manager in Serbia. These are the people who have to pass the license, who have to pass some exams. Nothing about anyone individually. I was talking about bad law. Look at the law. Each of the bankruptcy directors could have been sentenced to jail for up to five years. And nothing to anyone. What could someone who was sentenced to five years in prison have done before? How many firms do you want to close? It's okay. It's democratic. That's great, because it comes from some side that only has the right to lead Serbia. The rest of us are not smart enough, not wise enough. We're all left behind to lead Serbia. You can't determine. There are Serbian citizens, there are elections. Don't call on them, I don't think they'll be left for more than two rows of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26693	We're done with the replicas. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Please, one more time.) ) I'm not going to give you a replica because it came out of the context of the agenda, there's a whole other story going on that doesn't make any sense to me, because then we're going to develop another story and another theory. Please, I'm ending up, I'm not giving anyone a line on this subject. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26694	The Honorable Presidency, Prime Minister, representatives of the government, is today on the agenda of the third item. It covers several laws and several contracts. I'm gonna focus on one law, and that's the law on private security. I'm not talking about the law on private detectives, because we at the DSS think that law should be withdrawn from the procedure, because it's unspoken. When it comes to this matter of private security, it is undefined, unclear in Serbia, and we can say that the state itself does not know the exact data related to the number of agencies and companies involved in this activity, it does not know how many employees work in these companies, it does not know, after all, how many weapons they own. We can say that citizens' trust, the citizens' confidence in private security is extremely low. We just heard it's 25%. One of the reasons why the rate is extremely low is that Serbia is the only country in an environment that has no law on private security. So there's a legal vacuum, and hopefully we'll get past it after we adopt this private security law. In Europe and the world, I said, many countries have this law. Experiences are different. The harmonisation of legislation is under way regarding the work of these security companies. Also, in some countries there are rules of service that therefore bring certain quality of work to these same security firms. Otherwise, the list of activities of these security companies is large. Like building security, we heard this earlier here, such as nuclear facilities, military facilities, airports, ports, even in some countries, national parliaments. These companies also deal with the transport of money and the preservation of valuables, as well as the preservation and security of natural persons. Due to the specificity of the work done by security workers, many countries have adopted some rules that workers can do in those securitys. For example, the worker has to be from that country, he must be old, he can't be a 16-year-old security guard, what's most important, he can't be convicted or prosecuted. Training for these workers is different from country to country. In some countries, it is regulated by certain courses, in other countries it is regulated by the MUP, and in some countries it has been given to private companies themselves to work on training the same workers. In some countries, these workers are allowed to carry arms, while in others they are not, but to carry alternative weapons, such as rubber bullets and electric pens. I can say that the right to operate certain companies in some countries, i.e. workers who work in that company, is large, in some not. Some may seem limited, and some may even deprive certain people of their freedoms. So these are all the experiences of the countries of Europe and the world. You have implemented certain experiences into the law. However, I am sure Serbia needs a different law because Serbia has different specificities and different characteristics. The private security association has been trying for years to force the state, not just this government, but the previous ones, to regulate in one normative way, the legal way of security rights, that they actually have some protocol, a way of acting when they're on the ground, that there are no extreme situations going on. We must say, Mr. Minister, that many people without credibility who have been convicted have opened these private agencies and companies, and the structure of employees in those agencies has just been criminal. They were all drug dealers, former convicts against whom criminal charges were filed, or they came from prison, some former athletes who were engaged in martial arts. That's why we expect, above all, that this law will answer some questions, which is to be addressed, all those companies that deal with this problem, and there are about 3,000 at this point, according to some lists and some information, to make a selection and as far as workers are concerned, and there are about 60,000 workers on some list and to obtain a license based on which they will work, i.e. to do this work. We expect you, Mr. Minister, to regulate by this law who can use force, because it happened in the previous period precisely that security workers torture clients, torture free citizens. It's easy to pull a gun on some people. So we expect it to be regulated in one correct and quality way. Also, we expect that after this legalisation of entities dealing with this activity, to introduce order in these areas, that we do not have a black market, but that all companies work with licenses under this law. So that's what we expect from this law. It's good, Mr. Minister, that the state finally decided to put it under its hat. But we don't understand who's going to be doing that part of the job? What administration is going to do that? This is not defined by this law, and we expect to get a quality response in this context, because there is a possibility that the ex post funds from the budget are re-determined to the MUP. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as you know, has responded to the amendments when it comes to these laws. We wanted to fix this text of the law, first of all, to help the state, to help all the people who do this work. I expect you to accept certain amendments that we have submitted, because this is about a new bill and new matter. In the hope that you will do so, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26695	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26696	Dear President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, co-workers of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have several agreements on the agenda that regulate international relations between the Republic of Serbia and the countries in the environment, in matters of security and we have two very important laws from the private security sector. So, by putting the agenda of the Agreement on the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy, the law on the adoption of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and the Council of Ministers of BiH, on police co-operation and readmission, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia shows, by who knows which way, the determination to make Serbia, as part of Europe, a significant and reliable partner in the international plan in the area of general security and security. The adoption of the private security law and the law on detective activity legally regulates this area. Also, the adoption of these laws is a new chapter in achieving the concept of a public-private partnership in this area in our country. Mr. Prime Minister, I will quote your words from June this year, when you said - this area was unregulated and it is time for Serbia to get a law that will fully edit it. We want a private security sector that will co-operate with the state, such as the practice in the world. That means licensing people who are going to do this job. It certainly wasn't easy to come up with such legal proposals, given the fact that these activities already exist in Serbia for many years and are being carried out under some other laws, that there are a large number of legal and natural persons involved in these matters. Therefore, on behalf of the SPS, I would like to express my great satisfaction with the fact that you, Mr. Prime Minister, and your team have managed to provide, through a broad public debate, the support of all relevant institutions and stakeholders and therefore, after almost a decade of working on this legislative proposal to the National Assembly, with the final text of these laws. When it comes to the importance of these laws, it is important and important to look at the issue from the aspects of the powers that security and detectives will have, and on the other hand, from the point of view of the possibility that all these entities should be placed at a certain point in time in another context and that certain tasks which are relevant to the state be transferred to them. This actually comes to what is a public-private partnership in this area, which is very important for a new time. The goal is to have a single security system and it seems that we have not matured awareness of the growing need for participation, so-called participation. the private security sector in a single security system. It is still thought that the matter of security, first of all, is a matter of the state sector in the way it was arranged during Tito's previous system. It is clear that the obligation and duty of the state to ensure a high degree of security cannot be replaced by anything, or that it is very, very significant in that part. On the other hand, there is no doubt that there is a stable social and business environment, both state and society. It is necessary to combine and compose the best mosaic of security structures, which will protect and provide the state, its system, all parts of society, people, material goods, private property, individuals. The only way to do that is through a public private partnership in this area. For all of this, it is clear that a law is necessary to define the area of the private security sector, because what it does not yet exist, leads to many and in some situations countless abuses. All that we're talking about is not the newspaper we want legally arranged to apply here in Serbia. Such practice exists in this area throughout the environment, in all European countries. Finally, let's also say that only in Serbia has this area not been properly decorated so far. When the State entrusts certain powers to private, natural and legal persons, it is necessary to specify the procedures precisely and ensure adequate control. Therefore, the bill promoter envisaged very precise procedures for carrying out these activities, and primary protection in all of this means primary protection against abuse is certainly licensing. The licensing process prevents persons with a suspicious past from owning private security companies, but also from doing jobs in this area. Anyone who wishes to engage in private security or detective activity will have to pass certain checks, controls, and mandatory training to carry out this activity. Due to the exceptional sensitivity of this area, comprehensive training and education checks are envisaged, starting with a psychophysical exercise through weapons training, fire protection training, first aid to human rights education. This way all risks are minimised. However, by adopting this law one more part should be replaced, which is the adoption of sublegal acts, because it is not possible to edit everything through the text of one law in the best possible way. We expect that through a series of sublegal acts, such as instructions, certain rules, normatives, etc., this will be specified in the best possible way. In addition, we particularly point out that direct supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, not by some special agency, as was the idea during the preparation of this law. This certainly reduces the space for some new abuses, and it certainly reduces costs to a minimum. Finally, people, citizens have the highest confidence in what the state body is, and that is the Ministry of the Interior. I believe that these proposals, along with a number of amendments that have been tabled here, and id by the SPS, will give the final text of the law that will lead to a better one, so to speak, the content, which this area will provide in the best possible way, so that this sensitive activity will for the first time be legally regulated in our country. There should be no illusion that by passing this law everything will be arranged in the best possible way. Practice will show many disadvantages that we may not be able to predict at this time. Finally, the awareness that the public private sector should be equally partnered with the state, I said, is not fully matured, but that consciousness, of course, is not present for those people who may already be doing these jobs today or who will work. It takes a long, long time to reach a general state of consciousness in which we will properly understand and understand such a relationship and one such role as security structures and the private sector and the state sector, in order to ultimately be the security that the state regulates, but of course with its inevitable partners. Finally, to point out once again the great satisfaction that a great deal of effort has been made by you, Mr. President, certainly by your close associates and that we are finally entering the legal regulations of this very sensitive area, and something should begin. This first step is very significant and I suppose it will give a lot, a lot of good results. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in favour of all agreements submitted here, certainly also for the law on private security and detective activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26697	The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26698	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, agree with the Prime Minister when he says it is necessary to regulate the area by law. We've heard a lot of examples today. Perhaps the best example of why we need to arrange this area is found in not so far away history and the fact that people are close to the head of the special ops unit at one point, and during the course of the process of killing Prime Minister Djindjic, they set up a security agency and how dangerous it is that such people have the right to deal with something called security. You said today as Prime Minister, and it's from your position normally, that you refuse to accept the fact that someone who's a criminal will have the opportunity to work as a private security guard or to do detective work. We would have no problem with that explanation that we do not doubt, and that we have experience in the past year and a half that most of the laws proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have not produced the results of what these laws were expected. We expected several billion euros in investment from the Law on the Elimination of Conversion. We expected a better economic situation from several budgets and budget rebalances, etc. If the results are missing in other fields, we as an opposition political party have the right to doubt what can happen to the possible application of such a law if it is adopted in an unchanged form. We cannot go beyond the context in which this law is passed. We have a re-escalation of violence and hooliganism, i.e. the activities of hooligans, which on sports grounds, are beyond them. We have the fact that extremists from various nationalist organisations, who have been in court several times, are making gyms according to Vozdovac, whom the president of the largest political party that declares European values, allegedly says that the gym does not bother him at all. We have the fact that your first vice president of the government meets with hooligans and fans, drinks coffee with them and a few months later, the only result is that unlike you and many others, he does not run for sports events, and violence is on rising sports events. We also have a fact that was a big subject that we all condemned together, which is that a guy in Belgrade a few months ago was killed by security. The Stargazer guy. We had spontaneous civil protests about it. That's why we're asking the question of who is this giving the opportunity to take on investigative work, carry weapons, check identity, retain face, use of physical force and trained dogs? Put yourself in the social situation of that guy who was murdered and in a situation that there are people who may be armed at that moment, and in such situations this law would allow these people to be armed. You were defending yourselves today against the DS amendment, which requires that only unjudged persons can deal with this business by quoting certain laws. I thank you for a little longer break. I had time to get ready. Maybe I'm wrong, and I guess in that sense I deserve an explanation. Article 102, paragraph 3. Criminal law deals with data from criminal records. It states that data from the criminal record can be provided on a reasoned request to the state authority, undertaking, other organisation or entrepreneur if the legal consequences of the conviction or security measures persist and if there is a legitimate interest based on the law. So if we put you in this law to accept the DS amendments, and if this is criminal law, or the law of the Republic of Serbia, then we, as MPs, are doing our part very responsible when it comes to the security of citizens. We're preventing people, convicted, from dealing with these affairs and from preventing the incidents we've had in the past, and God forbid these incidents get back to trained dogs and guns, they can turn out to be a lot worse. I don't have to read when the face is legally rehabilitated. If a person is sentenced to prison for more than six months to one year, for example, legal rehabilitation occurs within five years of the sentence being executed. So, most of the people we're talking about here today, and we could become employees of those private security, certainly not deleted from the records. Who's keeping records? This is within the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. In the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, point 2, the minister responsible for the judiciary keeps records of the convicted. You told us there was no record of you. If she's not here, then the question is, whose responsibility is it that she doesn't have? It could be. You said today – you are right about violence. We can all share the responsibility here together, and we who made the last government and you who are making the present. But the similarities of this time and that time, Prime Minister, there's not much. Taking into account the fact that the activist DS Danilo Bobic identified him in your ministry, i.e. the KIM Office, Zoran Milojevic Želja, or Zelje, as the man who beat him, when we have the fact that a letter arrives from your government to the DS that ministers, mostly related to the largest political party of your coalition, have crossed over 5,000 kilometers into a campaign for local elections in Vrbas, that someone has carried out violence using the official vehicle of the government, the KIM Ministry, unless, in the jurisdiction of that ministry, Opov and Metohija, but only KIM, it is not normal. You, as Prime Minister, would have to react to that because the police in Vrbass that day, and I will remind you that day was the session of the government that we all looked at, about the austerity measures, with one very unpleasant scene at the end, where your first vice president, that's what I mentioned to him to talk to the fans, and that nothing after that happens, except that they stop scandalning him, and that's what you survived, and Mr. Jocic survived it and many other politicians in this country, and they didn't sit and drink coffee with him. (President: Mr. Panic, come back to the topic, please. () Only two more, or three sentences. Thank you for your warning. What is the message that we send by adopting this or some other law, or that the police are not responding to an identified person who is a member of your cabinet, who deals with violence during a political campaign? What should a policeman do in Vrbas when someone signals to him that he's been harassed or trapped in the premises of the largest party in this assembly, the same day that you suffer humiliation from the first vice president of the government in a direct transfer to RTS, which several million people watch? Please consider these amendments. You were the best student of the Faculty of Political Sciences, and you know that it's not just technical things that matter when a law is passed, there's a lot of things and in the context where that law is passed and in the messages that we send by passing certain laws. Accept the DS amendments. Personality data are protected in all cases, except in cases where the law states that this information is not protected. This is a situation where you can't avoid the DS amendments, or other opposition parties, in which security guards, in security, private security, detective work, can't have a criminal conviction. It's dangerous. Dangerous and because we have an increase in violence in political campaigns, because we have an increase in violence in stadiums, because we have an increase in violence through the media, because we have violence, if you want, and I have identified it as a kind of violence, and at the very session of the government. Think again about these amendments. It must stand in the law. He has to. We do not have the right, if we want to be an EU member country, nor will we be admitted to the EU as a country that resists the violence, or which gives them the opportunity to talk to the hooligans after the amnesty, or perhaps as a respected colleague, the head of the SNS parliamentary club, said yesterday, in order to introduce himself to certain normal flows. According to them, the law should be applied as it does to all other citizens of this country. They cannot possibly be left with this law to legalize what they do best, to carry out violence, and to still use dogs or weapons. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26699	The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26700	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, we have two completely new laws ahead of us, extremely important, a proposal for a law on private security and a proposal for a law on detective activity. The exceptional importance of these laws is that they regulate an area that has been legally unregulated for years. The grey economy, a number of abuses of authority, are only some of the consequences of legal irregularities in the private security sector. The aim of these laws is to professionalise, but also to legalise this sector, which means, among other things, that the numbers so far unregistered agencies will have to start to settle their obligations to the state. In one word, the aim of the law is to introduce order into the private security sector, but also to enforce one harmonisation of our laws with EU laws. Both laws have intended criminal policies. Penalties may be monetary, but there may also be measures for banning the conduct of this act. Then there is control of the implementation of these laws, which I think is very important in order for these laws to really live in practice. The supervision will be carried out by the ministry, and authorised officials, or police officers of the ministry, will have the right to exercise their insight without any notice as to how businesses, i.e. detective activities, as well as private security are being carried out. It also provides for data protection, which means that the collected data can only be used for the purposes for which they have been obtained. Among other things, this means that they cannot be made public and that they cannot be given an insight into a third party. I think it's something that's very positive, because it's the only way to avoid possible abuse. Then, it is mandatory to carry the ID and to show an insight into the same authorised police officers. When data are collected, also authorised political officials have the right to see it. From the above, it is clear that there is one high degree of control by the state in this sector which I think is very good and that this is the only way to avoid possible abuses that we have witnessed existed. The powers of private security officers and detectives will be detailed and explained in detail by sublegal acts, as is the case in most European countries. In particular, this will be the case when the coercion measures are at stake because again, in order to prevent possible abuses. At the very end, I would take the opportunity to appeal to the authorities to prevent one not so rare phenomenon, which is that private detective or private security work is done by officers in their spare time, often using a gun and a police badge. We have a case that these people have two jobs, two profits while someone doesn't have one, and we're not talking about a conflict of interest that exists. The only thing they are asked to do is make a fair choice whether they will work in the private or public sector. In order for these and similar phenomena to become a thing of the past, of course it takes time, but one serious and coordinated performance and the work of all relevant institutions and the compliance of the Law on Labour with the Police Act. I think these two draft laws are a very good start and that's why in the voting day they'll have SNS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26701	Thank you. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26702	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, at first I would like to congratulate all citizens of Serbia, the MPs and you, Mr. Prime Minister, on the anniversary of the adoption of the Mitrovica Constitution. Thanks to the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Constitution was adopted in 2006, which is today a dam for disintegration of the Serbian state. Today, in my presentation, I will talk about the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on readmission. Namely, it is a very bad agreement, Mr. Prime Minister, which corresponds to Montenegro and the Montenegrin regime, but does not correspond to the state of Serbia and does not correspond to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have lived in Montenegro for years. So, without any discrimination, the citizens of Montenegro can very easily, in a certain procedure, get a temporary residence permit in the Republic of Serbia, but they can also get citizenship while safeguarding their citizenship. On the other hand, citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot only get the citizenship of the Republic of Montenegro in Montenegro, but they cannot almost get a temporary residence permit. It is surprising that you simply went through this agreement so easily, agreed to what is called the Montenegrin language. I don't mind if the independent state of Montenegro has its own language, but what about the Serbian language status in Montenegro? We all know that that language is being kicked out of schools from official use, although according to the 2011 data, when the list was about 28% speaking Montenegrin, and 42% speaking Serbian. Therefore, the state of Serbia must not remain without, but must give some answer, not simply sign agreements, accepting certain qualifications that unfortunately go to the detriment of Serbian citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, what I want to point out here is that you, as a signator of the Agreement, Mr. Prime Minister, have predicted an unacceptable termological difference. Namely, the Agreement says – citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegrin citizenship. So, it is a termological difference that is also political, because in this way we promote, we accept this agreement to promote the Montenegrin identity of the state, which, according to the current Constitution of the Republic of Montenegro, is civil. Then why didn't we say in this agreement and Serbian citizenship, or should we say the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia? In Article 2(2), paragraph 1 is also replaced by the following: The agreement is said that the states of the signatories will accept any person who does not meet the conditions for entry and stay in another country. The clergy and monasticity of the Montenegrin-Primordial Mitropolis, as well as other dioceses that have canonical jurisdiction in Montenegro, are experiencing persecution from Montenegro's MUP. They can't even get temporary permits to stay, and in fact, it's about Minister Raška Konjevic himself, who you signed this agreement with, and his associates who don't work under the law, they're after the clergy and they're even talking about being deported. The country is poor and the agreement is poor, where the ministry by the Montenegrin Ministry is qualified as a threat to the security of the state of Montenegro, according to the results of their National Security Agency. The third thing I want to talk about here is that in this agreement, you did not foresee the question of Kosovo and Metohija. What about a person who does not meet the conditions for entry and stay on the territory of Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija? In that case, Podgorica will if it identifies such a person to address not Belgrade, but Pristina. You know why Mr. Prime Minister? Because Montenegro has the same signed agreement with Kosovo as an independent state. That's what this is about. So, you and the President of the Republic were on an official visit to Montenegro this year. Have you raised these questions? Did you raise the question of language? Have you raised the issue of the persecution of clergy and monasticism in Montenegro? Did you also raise this issue of this agreement, given that you signed it where these, therefore, problems about termological reasons, political reasons, essential reasons when it comes first of all to violations of human rights that are survived daily by Serbs and the Serb people in Montenegro? So the state of Serbia remains not all the problems of the Serb people in the region. We see what happens in Montenegro, see what happens in Croatia. Simply like that, we are not working to preserve the state and national interest, and certainly the Serbian people in the region are the state and national interest of the state of Serbia. These are also important issues that we wanted as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia to launch here in parliament alongside these questions of detectives and security, because we believe it is a bad agreement, you need to withdraw it and bring it into line with the needs, primarily of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Montenegro. If Montenegro's MUP is scrambling towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, you know what it is, that it is Montenegro's Administrative Court that rejects the results of such a MUP of Montenegro's persecution. If we are talking about the principle of reciprocity, if Montenegrins can achieve citizenship here and win the Republic of Serbia, then why can't ours in Montenegro get at least a temporary stay, if they can't only get citizenship. Of course, in the voting day, we will not support this agreement, as well as therefore, the draft laws that have been discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26703	Thank you. The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26704	As I did with the distinguished Mr. Stefanovic, so will you. Just in principle to say that some of the things that are now being done are the result of something that has been done and signed or a decision has been made on it years ago. You were just talking about it, such a register hasn't been taken over by the Justice Department yet. True, what you say is that if this verdict is active, that is, judgment and if it is not rehabilitated, it is not disputed. But when he's rehabilitated, he erases himself and no longer exists. Do you understand? If you say whether he's convicted or not, it doesn't matter whether we give or not. We'll give, but there's no more in the register when it's erased. That's the thing. That's why I think those laws should be reconsidered. Fortunately, it will be the subject of this screening that happens for chapters 23 and 24. When it comes to reading, it is about type agreements that are all about to be based and based on a roof readmission agreement signed with the European Community and the EU. I don't know, and I don't remember exactly because I wasn't in power whether Dragan Jocic himself signed it or signed someone on behalf of the Serbian government when you led the Serbian government. He doesn't touch Kosovo. So he's not referring to Kosovo because he's under Resolution 1244. Does the Montenegro MUP behave as he behaves? Right, that's what we talked about and Milo Djukanovic will come back here for a return visit, of course we'll talk about it. We discussed this with both our church and the Metropolitan, both with Montenegro's president and with the prime minister, we are trying to make a step in these relations. You remember well that I advocated signing an agreement with Montenegro on dual citizenship, but that does not suit them because they assume that a large number of Montenegrin citizens will be free to take Serbia's citizenship then and thus ask it as a political issue, which may have political consequences on the issue of government in Montenegro. We had another approach to the adoption of the Law on Citizenship, which is that all Serbs around the world, with certain proof of origin, are allowed to receive dual citizenship, without a release from the country of residence. So these are two opposite principles and we couldn't agree. We continue our policies, they continue theirs when it comes to dual citizenship. So this is nothing new, that something special happened to Montenegro now, that's where I want to calm you down. We have no intention of tarnishing these problems now. Problems must be solved, but they are not the subject and are not part of this agreement that you are talking about, or the Readmission Agreement. These agreements are mostly of a type character and they are almost the same with all the countries with which they sign each other. Political topics have certainly been opened, relations with Montenegro simply must be brought to order, in terms of the relationship between the two countries, where Serbia respects the will expressed in their referendum. On the other hand, we are interested in the position and rights of the Serb people who live there and we remain firm, simply to bring our relations down to not one irrational level, but to be in this principle. That's why it's important that there's no politicizing all of this here, except that there's still that eternal fear. In Montenegro, even today, when you go on television, the main question is that we are only discussing Montenegro all day long -- why did Montenegro leave, why this, why that? We're not discussing this at all. If that's how they decided at the referendum, I want everything best, but we don't have any closer to each other. It shouldn't be an anti-North campaign or anti-Serb campaign. It's a little easier for me because I'm one of the few politicians who has no origin outside of Serbia, so I can approach it rationally. That's why I'd like to welcome you one more time so we don't politicize this part. You don't have to vote, of course, but it's absolutely the same text as some other protocol readmission agreements. Perhaps the language, in this general era of various languages, is perhaps the most accurate version to be written in English. In any case, it is the cleanest, at least in terms of the formulation used in that international legal correspondence. I assure you that Serbia has not come down under our national and state interests when it comes to the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26705	Ljuban Panic, please. I'm sorry, it can't, you don't have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26706	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, this is not about politicisation, but about the very specific problems our citizens in Montenegro face. So it's about the problems of shagging monasticism and clergy, where the National Security Agency declares priests a threat to security. What a threat security monks and clergy may have, that's what we're talking about. If the state of Serbia does its best to get the citizenship of the Serbian state, you must do everything you can to ensure that our citizens in Montenegro do the same. You say you're working on it, but while you're working on it, there's a time that's going on in there, and all with a political background of a particular group of people, or a Montenegrin regime. When it comes to Kosovo and the mention of Minister Jocic, I just have to remind myself that the current KIM status is not the same as when Minister Jocic was the police minister, you know it well. You are well aware that in 2008, secession was made, that 22 states recognised Kosovo's independence, that Romania is now announcing, following the Brussels Agreement, that it will recognise Kosovo etc. We must do in all ways, when it comes to these type agreements, to protect our own rights, our people in KIM and when it comes to the rights of Serbs in the region. Because if we don't, it'll get harder and harder for the Serbian people. Look what's going on in Vukovar. There's so much agile Serbian politics in the region, they're pounding tables every day... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... and thus show what they think of the Serbs. So it's not about politicisation, it's about concrete issues and that principle of reciprocity. If Serbia makes concessions, Montenegro must.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26707	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26708	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the MUP, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since the Republic of Serbia is the only country in the environment that has not regulated the Law on Private Security and the Law on Detective Action, I believe that these bill proposals are certainly welcome and will put an end to all the bad situations resulting from the lack of these laws in the coming period after their adoption. The proposal for a private security law regulates the mandatory security and protection of certain facilities, the work and work of legal and natural persons in the area of private security, as well as the conditions of licensing, the way in which the work is done and what is very important, which is to supervise their work, for which the law is responsible for the Ministry of Serbia. The proposal for a law on private security of persons and property follows the alignment of our legal system with EU legal standards, as well as the experiences and solutions of countries in the environment that have already become part of a large European family and which have largely implemented the European Commission's advice from these areas. There are no accurate figures in the private security sector in the Republic of Serbia. According to recent surveys, the number of private security employees is estimated to range from 25,000 to 50,000 employees. The amount of weapons is about 47,000 pieces of different caliber, and registered companies have over 600, although there are no precise data. Trust in the private security sector has 25% of citizens, and 44% believe that their work contributes more to the safety of citizens. I must point out that in the past few years, serious abuses of authority have often occurred from individuals who deal with private security matters, which has damaged, with some information recently mentioned about citizens' trust, persons who work extremely honestly and professionally in private security matters. The new draft law lays down the terms set out in it, in Article 3, in which, in addition to the terms, the significance of such as patrolling, ID, service user, private security legal person, private security contractor, risk assessment, security plan, security officer, physical protection, technical protection, combined physical and technical protection, and a solution to meet the prescribed requirements for legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons performing private security tasks, and ultimately, the security check carried out by the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. The new bill provides for financial sanctioning in criminal terms for natural and legal persons carrying out private security tasks, which violate this law in their work or functioning, and are fined at a level of 5,000 dinars to millions of dinars, depending on whether it is a natural or legal person. Finally, I believe that there is one of the proposals for a law that largely brings this area into legal frameworks, protects and regulates the market economy, abolishes and weakens the grey-black lobby that has been taking over the primate for private security in the Republic of Serbia for the last decades. In the voting day, the SNS will support the proposal for a private security law, as well as proposals from the third joint agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26709	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26710	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister and Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, when it comes to security and human rights, it is one of the most important areas in our society, and I am proud to be a member of the DS that has dealt with these issues for years. I'll just mention some laws that have dealt with it. The most important is the roof law on the prohibition of discrimination, as well as other laws that protect human rights. How important the subject of security is and how important this law on private security is, the next illustration best shows. On 17 September 2013, respected citizens, unknown thieves robbed the Nish Security Agency. Imagine. Unlike other EU countries, where there are practically 200 years of these activities that have been regulated and legally regulated at the end of the last century, our country has only been engaged since 1988. Unfortunately, one of the first private security agencies was the "Tiger" Agency. The citizens know who it's about. How is this arranged in other countries? In Belgium, Finland and France, firstly, it is stated that 6% of security workers can carry arms, but in strictly certain activities. Weeks are 28 to 48 hours, with at least nine holidays and mandatory days off. I'm checking that we're not talking. According to the European Confederation of the Private Security Association in Serbia, about 50,000 people are said to be engaged in security jobs, which corresponds to the number of police officers. However, these data differ and they range from 25,000 to 60,000 depending on who estimates them. About 600 companies and 3,000 agencies are estimated to be active. It is estimated that 6,000 contracts are currently active on the domestic market. The value of the deal is about 150m euros. So it's a very lucrative business. What surprises me, and this is also a question for the minister and prime minister, is what will security for the presidents of municipalities if municipalities are less than 20,000 residents, public utility directors or directors of various social firms? What were those estimates that these people had security? You have municipalities that have video surveillance all over the middle, in the whole town, that end up in the office of the president of the municipality. What else is important to say here? Since the minister is in charge of regulations that are closer to determining this area, it is important that those rules stand against whom no criminal offence is being prosecuted, which is being prosecuted by official duty, whose employment relationship at the MUP did not stop because of a serious violation of official duty and that he is not punished for committing domestic violence. There are amendments submitted by the DS. I have one more question now, given that VMA and some NGOs have been dealing with your problem, so I would like the minister to answer something on the subject. We don't have records of people or the exact records of people who were in wars in the former Yugoslavia. According to VMA, as many as 30,000 people suffer from postpartum syndrome. If there is no adequate treatment and if there is no accurate record, will any of these people work in such agencies, whether it's detectives or whether it's private security agencies? We have a case in Mladenov which is a typical example of postural syndrome. We've had cases like this by members of the police in the past. The security of the citizens is quite compromised. I'll remind you of some security information. In 2010, we were a relatively safe country with some parameters, and today the number of murders in Serbia is estimated to be twice as high as in previous years. At that time, the murder rate had some coefficient of 1.2, so we were safer than Croatia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll remind you that some countries have complete security, such as Monaco and Honduras, where the rate of murder is the smallest. How important is this? I think this problem, both detective agencies and private security in Serbia, needs to be paid full attention, because no law can be on its own. They're all connected to other laws, and that's what's important. At least 100 spy devices for personal use are sold daily in Serbia. That's what ordinary people buy most, not detective agencies, as they think. For a figure of only 50 euros, you can become a rookie spy. Wired and recorded by marriage mates, parents have been listening to children, and lately employers have been listening to their workers. That stalking devices in Serbia are a very wanted commodity also says that there are a large number of spy equipment stores, websites for their sale, and ads are a full offer for renting bugs and other detective Gegets. In 90% of cases, equipment is bought by individuals, and at least a hundred of these are sold daily in our country. As soon as the price is less than 50 euros, know that it is equipment that has already been used and is of poor quality, according to one of the people involved in detective affairs. I think that, in addition to the need to edit this area through legal procedure, this area regarding the sale of equipment, since even a flea can buy equipment, so-called. ‘Straight’ equipment. It's one software that even serves to pick up iPhone's phone. My personal opinion is that the problems of unauthorized supervision of state authorities, which individuals, private companies and agencies, are serious in our society. I think the law could have been much more detailed. I think that in the future, any law that enters the procedure in the Assembly should have a stronger explanation. If we are already calling for EU experiences, then it is good to see how the Belgians, the French and others who have been dealing with this for many years before us, because I think security and human rights are first priority. We are witnessing political and any other violence in our society. Every day the topic in every newspaper is violence and you can hardly open any papers in the morning without reading that someone was killed, that there is no domestic violence, rape and anything else. I remind myself it's not just the responsibility of the police, it's in laws and law enforcement, but I think a much better regulation of these regulations could bring relief to the citizens, especially those who send their children to school and who look forward to her coming home safely. Thank you. PRESIDENT: The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I can say that this matter regarding physical and technical security and the proposal for a law on detective activity should have long ago been held at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This would solve many of the misunderstandings that have been addressed through many of those who have dealt with these activities, as well as with the members of the MUP. Today, we are witnessing that despite the lack of legal regulations, many carry out these activities. No one knows under what conditions, and could that be regulated by some sublegal M.O.P. Act? Today you can see on the streets and cars that are with rotation, though not blue-red, but some other colors, and it says on them that it's some kind of security, but there's no legal regulations. You can also see that many in the form of doing a security job are walking armed and that these weapons are not even hiding. I've got a little bit of a misunderstanding that this law, for all it's worth, is working out. In 2001, the Law on the Use, Holding and Wearing of goods was introduced, so that, among other things, taxes and arms were charged, so the instructions on what kind of weapons are involved, whether they were guns, hunting rifles, etc. One of the items was that the tax was also paid on automatic weapons. I kept asking the amendments to delete it, because under the Arms and Ammunition Act, automatic weapons can only have members of the military and police, and that law was also exempt from paying that tax. The minister at the time told me that automatic weapons have agencies dealing with physical and technical security. You can imagine the situation – if there is no legal regulation, if there are no restrictions set by the law, someone under the form of physical and technical security and that activity can have a small private army, armed with the same weapons that both the military and the police have. It's a good thing that here in the bill it's finally regulated, that only a gun can be used, a certain caliber, 9 mm, I'd just like it because it's a highly represented caliber, there are several types of grains, to solve the question that a grain can be found in that weapon, because many are legal, but many real and major injuries, disproportionate use of force. It means it's the same ammunition used by members of the Department of Defense. Perhaps it was necessary to regulate when it comes to their vehicles that the ministry's consent to the vehicle's appearance is also needed, that we do not come into the situation so that the citizen is led astray that it is a member of the police or any other state formation. One part of me is very surprising, which is that apart from the security of objects, these are the most common porters that provide certain facilities such as municipalities, smaller mails, smaller factories, etc., we also have objects that are much more than commercial activities, which are facilities that are banks and are the most sensitive in today's time. What surprises me most is that the accompanying money that the Ministry of the Interior has done in some earlier period and paid by the business banks has completely crossed over to private purposes, without any legal regulations. It's about a job that's being charged, not a little bit. I don't mean to mention it, but I have the right to suspect that during some earlier period some other ministers were giving their jobs to very close friends and that the police remained short-sleeved. No one can convince me that the police are not up to the task both in physical and technical terms and in any other sense. What's very important is what a colleague of mine has read here, that a vehicle for money transfer has been attacked, it's a completely different story and a situation when one who solves such a step knows that there is a policeman who has the right to use more force than a member of physical and technical security, and that serves as a motive for deterrent. However, due to earlier failures, this market is completely left to private persons, against whom I have nothing against being dealt with, and should be dealt with, and there should be some competition, but I also believe that because of the position of members of the Ministry of Interior and the position of the ministry itself of chronic lack of money, this job could also be done by the police, of course, on the market, on market conditions and thus provide additional revenues for its functioning. We now have agencies that have often hired workers on a work contract, where there has been a lot of charges but with those same persons who have been accompanied, or in some kind of working relationship, paid the least possible profit, so-called. Minimal. The Serbian Progressive Party will support this bill in the voting day, mostly because this law prevents someone from having a private army with weapons prohibited by law and which will finally both the rights of employees both in detective activity and in physical and technical security from being regulated while they are carrying out the job, rather than being left to legislation that is quite outdated for such situations and cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26712	The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26713	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, I am convinced that the systematic arrangement of the private security services sector of every society that seeks to be governed by the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law is, for at least a million reasons, of which, for this occasion, I will list only a few, in my personal opinion, very significant. First, the amount of weapons in this sector leads to the conclusion that we are dealing with a real armed force here. In fact, 47,000 pieces of various tubes are numbers that even are overrated, and the knowers claim not to be, is a serious potential threat to security, security, and especially to the tranquillity of the citizens, of the ordinary world that wonders what a weapon will do unless it's a trophy or family silver that's been processed so that it can't shoot, let alone wound or kill. As an ordinary man, I can't help but wonder how something like this is even possible, how things got so out of hand, and especially how no government has ever insisted on taking this area seriously and responsibly? Imagine now that people in this sector have rebelled and gone to the streets to pressure the state to regulate their performance systemically, with all the long and short pipes, in their working uniforms and equipment, as the doctors strike in white coats or tortured miners, how did we at the time have the opportunity to hear during the rebellion of a police unit? Another problem is the market nature – a turnover of 150m euros per year in a gray and black zone, under privileged conditions, is it caused by negligence or conscious intent in the interests of a completely tangible nature, which are always personal and group and never social and state? Which is why it turns its head and shrugs into one or both eyes, or someone might say that the head is turned around to reduce social pressure, as we've let street sales on flea markets become a competitor to a real sector that is increasingly difficult to sustain. When you securely create a state in which you leave citizens alone and even members of state security institutions offer their work in free time on the market, although black as dark as well as often the face and status of those who were ready and able to pay, on their hands, of course, beyond all legal financial flows. The parallel practice of some European legislation, whose brief review is given in the light of this bill, is how we see very diverse. The number of illegal weapons as well as the inherited situation in society and the state requires finding the most effective solutions to our practice, especially in the area of sublegal acts that this matter is more precise and detailed to regulate. Discouragement data on the growing numbers of various forms of clinical depression and monstrous killings from unknown motives, as the official version in investigations of these unsatisfactory events calls for organised systemic and effective state action. In that sense, I find it somewhat controversial and a provision on the five-year duration of the licence, especially in a work defined as psychophysical abilities and security checks. I believe that the institutions that are in charge of monitoring, sublegal acts will receive powers in terms of emergency checks on persons who possess firearms by nature or have the right to legislate, search and use the methods of extreme urgency and necessary defence. In the hands of mentally unstable persons carrying weapons means power and things are easily slipped into what we call overpowering, or excessive abuse of force, especially if it's about tough guys who tend to be legends, at least in their neighborhood, at least as dead heroes. At least for a moment, it should be placed in the skin of a variety of bodyguards, who every day, as living moving targets, earn a living protecting someone under the name of a businessman, whom they still have to refer to as a gentleman, for example, because the state has not yet placed him where he truly belongs, and with the criminal property acquired permanently seized. That kind of thing can rock the most mentally stable man who usually works here for change, while, for example, He's carrying bags of cash, and it's in a solid currency. Finally, if the issue of licences becomes a state business, i.e. if the costs of licensing of private security are unreasonablely high, I fear that many users will continue to seek service providers of this type in the gray and black zone, which is, however, not only a matter of market distortion and unfair competition, but also a new potential danger for citizens who have long ago been many of those who, in most different, and mostly quite offensive ways, demonstrate their own, even a few formal or informal powers. But he was born to rock him. Private security is the fluids of a market-liberalised society with an economy in which everything is for sale at freely formed prices and even human, unfortunately, moral integrity. A new profession created by a consumer society that, at least that's in a world of order, always regulates the rules of the game, so I guess by adopting this bill, we'll finally do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26714	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26715	Mr. Chairman, how much time do we have?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26716	For you five minutes, you have 48 minutes, enough to say in five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26717	Mr. Prime Minister, I will certainly vote for this bill because we don't have a better one. I believe the amendments will improve. I can tell you that I've seen one five drafts and five proposals so far that have been worse than this. I've seen the proposal written by our experts before, where literally the warriors wrote, the participants of the homeland war have priority in employment, and I've seen such proposals. Most likely, when they prescribed Croatian laws were not well copied, they were digging up a page, something had failed them. That's one of the reasons why I'm going to vote for the law, because that area should finally be arranged. What I didn't notice in the law, and what should be installed, I'll see what amendments are everything, and who can speak against it. Fire safety. So I don't see in this law that that part has been processed enough. What I would like to point out is that this law that we have interpreted today, each in its own way, is an extremely sensitive area in all developed countries, a very sensitive area almost as much as the military and the police themselves. So, with these private security companies, this law could be called a law on security of persons and property. It's not just some bodyguards and security that go on rafts. So things can be very serious. In a certain way, national security, political independence and territorial integrity are preserved through this law. Foreign intelligence structures, they want, and we know what they want, they want to put them under control, and they buy organizations that deal with these areas, in such a way that they control the relevant states, and it's no secret that the leading countries, and I believe that the Ministry will keep an eye on it, that the leading countries and the leading intelligence services, like MI6, have different branches, and that in various countries they register companies, which deal with this activity. So, I think that through the amendment, this law can be better and certainly better than the previous ones that were, but the law is a sacred letter, and I believe that it can be more extensive, because the most in the law has it pointed to the provisions and the way the licenses are obtained, it hasn't quite worked out some of the topics that those who are dealing with this activity, given that there's no better law and that we're still going to do it with amendments, and given some of the new law on amendments and additions, things can improve, in the day of voting, I'm going to vote for this proposal, by making those suggestions that I've seen in the way that people who have dealt with this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26718	The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26719	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will discuss the proposal for a private security law. By putting aside the power of certain laws that govern the origins of the old socialist system, from the time of self-government, there has been a gap in the legal system, which this law can fulfill. It is important to talk about how harmful it was for society to function, the lack of this law on private security, Serbia is the only country in Europe that has not regulated the issue yet. I'm not an idealist, but I have to say that if anyone were to follow moral rules, no security would be required. Unfortunately, we are very far from an ideal society where each individual knows how to carry out his duties and duties. That's why we have a situation where we have over 3,000 registered companies in the area. We have between 25 and 60,000 people who are employed in private security. We have over a million weapons in our citizens legally and almost as illegally. The question arises, how do these companies work and on what basis and in what frameworks, all those companies hire, what kind of contracts they make with employers, what happens if they don't meet the contracts and on which basis and who they're responsible and another million of such issues. These companies are constantly getting information and they have audio, video footage, so it doesn't take living imaginations to imagine what they're doing from shop to blackmail. If we take a closer look at who's involved in these companies, legally and illegally, honoring exceptions, that's terrible. Starting from multiple murderers through road robbers to barby beatings, we find everything, illegal martial arts athletes, football fans, ex-cops and employees of the MUP on vacation. The palette is wide and inexhaustible. Just to remind you of the various privatisation scandals of the company after 2000. A general example, dissatisfied and robbed workers have taken over the company, comes the director with his security and chases the workers out of the circle. After that, the workers with the other security detail come back, throw out a self-invited director, and that goes on forever. Of course, I don't want to talk about the accompanying administrative actions that made all of this possible, because it's not today's topic of debate. Let's see about classified information. These companies, because of the nature of their dealings, often come up with very interesting and confidential information. When building security, money and valuables transport, valuable shipments, security of various public gatherings, and during technical protection of buildings, confidential information is inevitably available during these shops that can easily be converted into weapons in the hands of criminals. What is the fate of this very confidential information in which no one is concerned today? In the 20th century, information was the most precious thing. In the 21st century, it became incomparably much more pronounced. Information carriers are drastically developed, so anyone in their pocket can carry a large amount of valuable information about personal data that is equally confidential. Imagine that these companies provide facilities of particular importance, provide banks, transport large amounts of money, how valuable this information is and what might be their fate in the absence of appropriate regulations and in the absence of real and precise controls? There's nothing left to do but hope for the best. Just to give the simplest examples of breaking the rules. Everyone was already reading in the same press that they took someone out of some party and security on the street beat up a guest who couldn't even resist. After that, it turns out that the security guard was hired black, that he was a professional criminal. The police have been chasing him for a while, so after half a year, he's back in second place and it's all moving on. All this is done in the absence of this law, whose adoption has been delayed for years. Over a long time, some kind of natural balance has been created in this area under the law of the jungle that corresponds to criminals. This all went to the expense of honest security companies that couldn't from the state's unfair competition on the market, so they failed. If someone doesn't pay taxes and taxes, doesn't follow any normal rules, breaks all the laws with his powers, uses raw force, today will survive on the market against the one who is fair, professional and respected by the law. In terms of private security, the situation is so bad that the worse can't be, which is why we can't expect the new law to solve all the problems and normalize the situation overnight. The problems are so deep that it will take a long time for the situation in the area of private security to be consolidated.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26720	Mr. Chizik, it's time, do you have any more thoughts to complete?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26721	I've got a little bit more, but we haven't used the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26722	I can tolerate it, otherwise you have the right to contact later, but if you don't have much, go ahead, finish it so you don't call again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26723	The problems are so deep that a good law is necessary that will prefer professionalism, discipline, security in this branch. Unfortunately, the proposed law has a number of shortcomings, which proves a large number of good amendments offered. Among other things, our LSV MP group has offered a number of amendments that would greatly contribute to making this law more precise and more modern and consistent with our criticisms. It is also natural that the law will, after a time of practice, show its good and weak sides. In the future, we should work to correct mistakes and thus contribute to the completion of this law. As far as our assessment is concerned, this law is not bad to begin with, and if you accept a large part of these amendments, it will be one good basis for the normal functioning of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26724	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I give the word to Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26725	I thank the MPs for a serious and constructive debate. We've been trying all these years to approach this topic without any political influence, any lobbyist influences of different groups dealing with this business. There are certain public debates but not with companies and agencies dealing with the team, but within the Chamber of Commerce that brings them together, because you need to talk to someone about all this. On the other hand, I just want to say a few words to you in the end. We will enter into an amendment within the next few days. As I have announced, a large number of these amendments, I don't know exactly how many, but maybe half of the amendments will be accepted, and some of them will, of course, be related to those key topics that you've been talking about here, among other things, and as is the question of a caliber gun. I'm not an expert in these ballistics areas so I can talk about it now, but there will be 7.65 and other guns that can be used, which are already on our market. On the other hand, the amendments you spoke of will be accepted. And I hope you will be pleased with such a single response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of the Interior. However, I would just like to point out that we, in parallel with this, have to look at other laws prepared by the Ministry. It is a law on weapons, a law on the marking of weapons, or stamping and the law on public gatherings, which we are also preparing, and we should also seriously approach the law on police or amendments to the Law on Police or New Law in the coming period. This means that many of these topics will also be subject to these laws, since here when it comes to the purchase of weapons, for example, it is not done under this proposed law but under the arms law, etc. I want to be very responsible to say that it is not our goal, which is why today and I reacted sharply to this political bickering and I think it is not good to have such a connotation, and that is because it does not stand this provision that one who is convicted cannot work and is now planning to allow some criminals to work. I absolutely want you all to keep in mind that it's common interest for all of us to be professional and responsible services, that they be an integral part of the national security system. I also have to tell you when we talk about it, after that old philosophy of ours -- that's a private firm, she can't do something right now that's for the state. It has the same obligations as a state-owned company, i.e. the state-run security sector, has an obligation to keep secrets. I've already told you that in many countries, in America, in the United States, there is, that's what the FBI director told me, whether he told me 16 or 18,000 security entities. So, different levels of administration, service, sectors of which many are private. So we want the private security sector as responsible, as an integral part of the national security system, and that will be our goal in the coming period. On the other hand, I also appreciate the attitude you have about this law on detectives. I'd just like to remind you that our intention was to make it one law. It was supposed to be one law, but the professional public, when it started to debate, felt it was necessary to separate those two topics and make two laws, because the work was not the same. Again, I'm going back to that, so that we don't talk about anything that's just about to be made up. We are talking about the existing and real people and the sector that exists, which is registered because there is, as they say, a code of action - detectives, detective activity in the APR. There's no way you can register it, and you don't have a law on it. We're just trying to get into legal frameworks. It's not like anyone's surprised now that they don't know there are detectives. Maybe that's not what they're called, but there are different kinds of agencies. If you followed, it doesn't just have to be a legal entity, it can also be a natural person, too, to get a license to do that job. At the very end, I'd like to open up to think about the subject, can the cops or the members of the M.O.P. do other jobs? That's the topic that's been going on for years. We were trying to find the right solution. From the point of view of the MUP, it would be best if they couldn't work, but from the aspect of the rights of these people, they can always ask the question of how can a doctor who works at a health care facility do another kind of work. I'm not talking about cops who are going to use their public powers on their other jobs or extra jobs, but I'm talking about whether they have the right to do something like that at all. I'll give you an example. We've got a helicopter unit, and now some of the MUPs are looking for a helicopter to use. We cannot charge him because we cannot do any additional service, or activity. That's what I'd say, in my opinion, the stupidity that exists. We can only work for free. Now you have a situation where sports clubs, singers, various other police are expecting to do something for free, but they're going to give a lot of money to private agencies to provide games, firemen, others, not the MUP, to be at the game, and they think we have to do it on official duty. One game costs our police, or MUP at least 100,000 euros, one high-risk game. Now watch out, how many other things are there that are very bad for the MUP, and that has to be the subject. Can anyone make a deal with the MUP or a contract on this protection and get paid? I guess he can't. So that's just what I'm saying. It's a subject we haven't touched, because this question of whether or not someone has a right or not, we've suspended it so far. They complain to the courts, and it usually ends with them, not only returning to work, but you still have to pay them compensation for not being legally regulated. It is absolutely our desire to equalise, when it comes to the place and role and the trust that we have, this state and private security sector, of course everyone with their own kind of responsibility. I thank you for this debate. I'll see you again when there's a debate in detail. I thank you for not taking advantage of all the time you had as MPs. It has been confirmed once again that whenever we can, the more we come here to Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-08-0.u26726	Thank you, too. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude the principle and uniform search of the draft laws referred to in points 6, 7, 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda. We finish work today and continue work on Tuesday, November 12, at 10.00 hours. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today is the date for requesting notice under Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
