ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20685	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Tuesdays and Thursdays, Members of Parliament, following the opening of the session, shall have the right to request information and explanations. Are any of the People's Messengers coming forward? Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20686	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group, I will request a notice or an answer to a question from the Ministry of Finance and Industry. Namely, a few days ago a letter arrived in our parliamentary group by 40 company workers in restructuring PIK Zemun with clearly indicated problems which, of course, not only bother the company. But we as a parliamentary group want to know what time and how the problems of companies that have the opportunity to develop on the market and which are definitely a comparative advantage of our economy will be solved. It is an enterprise that owns 744 hectares of farmland, where 5,500 thousand milk is produced daily, which has in its cattle stock 1000 head of cattle, which has fertilizer silos that represent the comparative advantage of the company not only in our country but also in the region. Therefore, there have been negotiations with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development itself on time, some agreements have been reached, and there has been a general strike of employees in the company, however, the problem has not been resolved today. As the Social Democratic Party, we believe that this company has natural resources, it has land, it has human capacity and the potential to develop well, to do good business on the market. We believe that, with certain solutions that we as a parliamentary group can also propose to the ministry, which is a possible and potential sale of a part of the land to recover debts, to settle certain obligations and resolve judicial disputes, to introduce professional management in the management process of these companies and to finally resolve the problem and businesses of PIK Zemun, but also other companies that are definitely lacking in quality good governance which is defined and directed to market principles and which, of course, will represent a moto development of domestic economy and domestic enterprises in the coming period. If agriculture is one of the strategically most lucrative branches of economy in our country, then I believe that both the ministry and the whole of the state must focus on solving the problems of these businesses and finally be competitive in the agriculture sector. For example, I will remind you of the Netherlands, which has four times less processed areas than Serbia, it has 100 billion exports, Serbia has two billion exports. In this way through the quality management of these companies, through the possible finding of quality strategic partners, we can raise the level of efficiency, efficiency and productivity of our agriculture. I believe that in this business the state and the competent ministry should play a bearing role, of course, along with other social factors that need to be included in this process as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20687	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20688	My question will concern security in Kosovo and Metohija and the overall security of the Republic of Serbia. On July 1st of this year, the so-called military agreement between the Republic of Albania and temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. The agreement contains very dangerous provisions for security and for our citizens in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as for the whole of the Republic of Serbia. He suggests and defines the status of so-called. Armed forces, exchange and temporary stay of the armed forces of foreign signatories. This would not have gone undetected if several more very interesting statements by individual representatives of the international community had not happened in the meantime. Albania that signed the agreement is a NATO pact member. Just in those days, NATO's Secretary-General said he sees Serbia's future in the NATO Pact. The other day we witnessed an incident at the administrative crossing when Albanians fired at representatives of the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia. A single agreement signed is a direct attack on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia because Kosovo and Metohija are neither an internationally recognised state nor has their armed forces. What is particularly worrying is the behavior of the NATO Pact in these days. Albania became a NATO pact member in 2009. Is it possible to imagine that such an event, such an agreement could have been signed without the consent of this military alliance and what kind of message does the NATO Pact send to the Republic of Serbia? What message does NATO make when it silences on these provocations that come from KIM's space towards central Serbia and the opening of our armed forces like this? What kind of message is sent by representatives of the NATO Pact when they call on the Republic of Serbia to join, even though they know that the Republic of Serbia is a military neutral state by decision of this National Assembly? It is high time and my question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, to open and concretely ask the questions of NATO to the pact, which would be next. Does the NATO Pact, whose Albania is part, support such an agreement and respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia? Does the NATO Pact respect the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia, since by decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia is a military neutral country and has been defined as not joining any military alliance? At the end of the line, will this military alliance's behaviour towards the Republic of Serbia be reviewed in the scope of the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Partnership for Peace and what guarantee for security in the KIM space can NATO provide? If he kept his mouth shut while the fire was being opened to the representatives of the armed forces, specifically in this case the Serbian Gendarmes, and at the same time allegedly guaranteed that so-called. The armed forces of Kosovo will not be able to stay on the territory of northern Kosovo, how can we, without doubt, that in the event of a possible attack by these armed forces on the territory of the northern part of KIM, they will also remain silent? What will happen if this agreement is applied and that provision that says that the armed forces of Albania can stay in the KIM area and whether their armed forces will open up the possibility that their armed forces are staying in the northern Kosovo area and are finishing that job which, allegedly, due to this guarantee provided by NATO, they cannot resolve or do so. KIM's armed forces? Whether they will commit violence against Serbs. This is a very important issue, and I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to open these questions to the NATO Pact and to clearly understand in any direction any deepening of relations with this alliance can go. I believe that the policy of military neutrality, which has so far proved successful, will be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20689	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20690	Thank you. In Serbia, there has been an increase in family tragedies in the past six months, unfortunately. The public was appalled by family violence and family tragedies and in Mali Ivanca, Arilj, Jagodina, Athens and this year, for the first six months, the victims of family tragedies were 26 women in Serbia, while last year, of 47 women killed, 29 were victims of family violence. That's why I think this is the moment when the state and the entire system must react comprehensively and concretely. That's why I'm going to refer a few questions to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. First of all, I think more stringent measures and prison sentences are needed for every bully who shows the forms of violence. If we were able to adopt "Maria's Law" and we were able to introduce pedophile control under that law and end the obsolescence of a sexual delinquent, then we need stricter control and violent men who are registered both in social work centres and in the MUP. According to a network of victims of violence, nine murdered women reported domestic violence this year. So there was no stricter control over reported domestic violence. My second question is to the Ministry of Education. Will the Ministry of Education, according to the protocol it has since 2009 change curricula and programmes and introduce family education in relevant textbooks, sexual education that is necessary to prevent our young generations. It is very important that the educational role of schools is strengthened and that young people from the early age create awareness of how much domestic violence every society reflects. My third question will be addressed to the Ministry of Health, because I believe that a comprehensive health strategy is needed, above all, from the field of psychiatry for bullies. Unfortunately, it's not enough to treat abusers in psychiatric hospitals, seven, ten or 15 days, and then, without any supervision, they get released home. Disturbed family relationships, unfortunately, and disturbed families cannot control whether patients are taking medicines. In the end, in this appeal and question, I want to give you one more piece of information. Of the 38 people this year who lost their mother or grandmother, 22 are underage children.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20691	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20692	On June 4th of this year, I asked the same question to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture and Information and NUNS. The issue referred to an article published on June 27th in the weekly "NIN" and the article referred to Satanization, professional lynching and execution of the Minister of Education Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. In this question, I have pointed out everything that those who have so far and without preparation have been able to answer, and this is about whether the text from the Nin weekly makes the characteristics of a particular crime, whether it harshly violates the Serbian press code and whether it calls itself on something that opens the door to something that does not seem to be informing that it should exist in Serbia. The only answer that has arrived so far is the response of the weekly NIN, with which the SPS parliamentary group cannot in any case be satisfied. It is that the answer states that the texts do not offend a person, do not call for a link, Satanization and execution of Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, although the text mentions the words that relate, whether they should be hung on terraces, deprived of life, etc., and the explanation is that it is a satirical column of text authors and its style figures, which it serves when compiling and publishing texts in the same weekly. If we are to use such stylish figures and such satires in public information, then it is certain that the door will open for inappropriate calls and calls on something that can be very dangerous, especially for people who are in public functions, or for public figures. I will ask the same question that I have already asked with clear and precise answers, especially the question of the Minister of Culture and Information. Did these style figures, which are used by the author of the text, violate one of the basic principles of the Code of Ethics of Serbian Journalists, which is the principle that the journalist cherishes the culture and ethics of public words, in the publication of his texts, did we here in this ethical function, when it comes to the public word, respect this principle, or did we severely hurt him, or did he hurt him, who published this text? Furthermore, has the same text damaged another principle that journalists must adhere to and why journalists should bear responsibility, which is the principle of collecting and using information, where a journalist is obliged to use only with honorable means? Were honorable funds used in a situation like this, when a campaign that binds to no less or more than the deprivement of his life was launched against Minister Obradovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20693	MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20694	Mr. President, I have one question for the minister of justice, which is politically not so attractive, but it is very important for the future of this country, for the construction of a modern legal system, legal security and regulation of the country in the way in which the countries, members of the European Union, and of course our country presupposes to be in the company of these countries. In fact, Serbia was once a third country in Europe in the mid-19th century, which passed the Civil Code, right behind Austria and France. The civil code of the Serbian Library has been valid for a hundred years, according to the great French code, Napoleon's code of civilians, which was brought in in 1804 years, and the Austrian Civil Code, which was passed in 1811. We adopted this Civil Code in 1844. However, with the arrival of a single-party system and a totalitarian regime, total discontinuity with all previous legal systems has also arisen, so this big job, done by Jovan Hadzic with its "germans", as popularly called Serbs who helped create Serbian institutions, has been passed by dozens of laws that have destroyed the civil state, legal security and fundamental property-legal relations. Serbia is halfway back today. What we did in the mid-19th century, we didn't do in the early 21st century. We have not codified civil and legal matter and we have a series of laws, from the Law on Fundamental Property - Legal Relations, which are not in the spirit of time and in the spirit of European Union law and European Court of Justice's case law in Strasbourg. Therefore, my question is to the minister of justice, when will the codification of Serbian civil law be carried out, and when will the Serbian civil code be passed, as the basis for a future regulation of Serbia's modern, European, legal and secure state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20695	Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ljubisa Stojmirović, Djordje Milicevic, Slavica Savic, Vesna Milekić and Milorad Mijatovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions Suzana Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Verica Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government and Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, I have called for the sittings to attend: Ljubisa Milosavljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Zlatko Milikić, Assistant Minister of Finance and Business, Branko Djordjevic, Assistant at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Daniel Nikolic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry and Sanja Jevtović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Industry. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on: a draft accounting law, a draft law on revision and a proposal for a factoring law. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the draft laws referred to in points 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: a draft law on accounting, a draft law on revision and a proposal for a factoring law. I'm asking the Service to alert the ministers to enter the O.R. I'm setting a 20-minute break. We'll continue work at 11.00 hours. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Does the representative of Prime Minister Verica Kalanovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20697	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, when we talk about the real economy, whether it's the Budgetary or Budget Rebalance Act on the agenda, when we talk about the Labour Act, about the Pension System, about the Health Insurance Fund, we all have one goal ahead of us, that in this country we have a more efficient, attractive, more perspective, more competitive economy because we want citizens to live better, to have more employment and higher wages, because we want the pension fund to enable us to pay our pensions, which we want to get well treated and we have medicines that are constantly available to us. We also want our budget to be fuller, which fills us with this economy and the real sector, because that way we can also plan a better culture and informing and social protection and everything that represents the service of the state. When we talk to businessmen, their regrets are that we have too much bureaucracy, that we have insufficiently defined legislation, that the impositions of businesses are large, that institutions are not efficient enough, that the people who work in them are often unstructured. Today we have three new and system-based laws ahead of us. These three laws provide answers to both, firstly by applying them, significantly improving one segment of the economic system, which will help make the real sector more efficient and competitive on the global market. On the other hand, these three laws will allow for cheaper business of the economy and, instead of words, give the right hand to companies. The economy got tired of just listening and just asking. She wants new changes in laws, wants the processes to be more transparent, for institutions to be open to businesses, citizens and the public. That is why today I can truly be pleased to talk on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia about three modern new laws that will significantly improve the economic system. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, something that is also important, of course not a priority, but it is very important when it comes to these three laws that they are in line with good EU practice and that they have both received support from the European Commission and the World Bank. We can say that we are in harmony with certain chapters, which will certainly contribute to reducing the time foreseen for negotiations with the EU. This is certainly another confirmation of the government's European orientation and our sincere determination not to isolate the island of Serbia's economic system, on the contrary, to be an equal partner with developing world countries. Let me say with a few sentences the basic objectives and provisions of these three laws that are before us. First of all, I'd like to say something about the Accounting Act. As you know, the Accounting Act has so far been part of a united accounting and audit law. We want to achieve greater efficiency in implementation and accounting and audit. That's why we have two new laws today. One treats accounting, one treats audit. We want this law to make a positive step in the Serbian accounting profession and practice. At the same time, full agreement has been reached with modern legislation in Europe, with EU standards and international practice. What are the most significant shifts? Firstly, the improved quality of financial reporting is significant. Accounting rules are adapted to the size and economic strength of operators. First, new criteria for the classification of legal persons were introduced, of course, fully adapted to those criteria that apply today in Europe. In particular, today we have large legal entities and public societies, around 1400 of them, and this is the only segment of the economy that continues to apply more complex international accounting standards which, to illustrate, in order to fully apply, it is necessary to comply with the rules defined on as many as 2300 pages. These more complex international accounting standards have been applied to such large companies and have been detained for such large enterprises because they today have both institutional and human capacity to implement them and their financial reports exactly adapt to this kind of international financial standards. Small and medium-sized enterprises, about 11,000 of them are the other two groups. So the first ones are the middle ones, and the second ones are small businesses. According to the new classification, it is small enterprises with revenues between 700,000 and 800,000 euros per year and an average of 35,000 thousand revenues per year. These companies can apply significantly simplified accounting procedures and standards if they have needs and wishes for this. For example, instead of the current 2300 pages of the procedure will apply 250. More specifically, they'll have significantly less mandatory reports. These companies will also be able to retain more complex international accounting standards if they comply with their business policy and objectives. The fourth group is micro-enterprises and this is a complete novelty compared to the current law. These are enterprises that have an annual turnover of up to 700,000 euros. Such businesses are the most in Serbia. There's about 110,000 of them. These micro-enterprises will apply a fully simplified financial reporting procedure in accordance with a regulation that implies the delivery of only balance sheet and balance sheet. In this way we introduce a significant novelty in the quality of reporting and adapting to size and strength, because over 120,000 businesses will have a simplification of procedures, and thus a direct benefit in saving both time and money. Another newspaper is the harmonisation of the classification of companies with European standards. In this way, Serbia's economic system is in line with European standards, which is a good signal to foreign investors, but also a comparison when it comes to mutual agreements and jobs. A collective responsibility is introduced for both management bodies and for persons delivering financial reports. This increases financial discipline, but also guarantees the accuracy of financial reports. Effectiveness in work is achieved by the new law predicting the transition to mandatory electronic delivery of financial reports to the Agency for Economic Registers. For micro-enterprises alone, all others will be teaching final accounts in electronic form by the end of 2014, and in 2015, all companies, accounting and micro-enterprises, will have the obligation and the privilege of delivering their reports to the Agency. The new law also provides for a reduction of deadlines for the delivery of adopted revised financial reports. To remind ourselves, according to the current law, it was September 30th, and the new law provides for June 30th. This reduces the risk of business of business operators. There's an accurate insight into their finances for six months in the second half of the year. This is a newspaper that provides for a new accounting law. There are defined all procedures and agreed both on the current moment and on European practice. The second law is the law on revision. First of all, I'd like to take a closer look at how the revision has been regulated so far. The businessmen themselves say – today we have an insufficiently clear legal framework, we have an insufficiently precise methodology of review, we have insufficient control, we have a lack of clear criteria for determining the level of liability for damages that a licensed auditor makes inconsequential work in this important financial area. If we ask ourselves today – who has controlled financial reports in recent years, say "Agrobank" and do we have a person or a house before whom today is the responsibility for the financial reports that have been delivered in previous years for a single institution whose fate we know today? If we look at the current situation in the field of audit, we see that there are 57 audit houses in Serbia and 203 licensed auditors and 5,653 legal persons who are subject to mandatory audit. The question arises whether it is possible to maintain the quality of the audit if we have 31 companies on a licensed responsible auditor and who should be punished for perhaps not being able to make audit contracts with audit houses? The new law provides a precise answer to these questions and adapts itself to the current moment. It is precisely defined who can carry out the audit, how licenses are issued and withdrawn, how audit companies and independent auditors are defined, precisely defined by carrying out audits with the elements of the audit contract, how audit reports look and how they are published in respect of the undertakings in which the audit is mandatory. The law also lays down which undertakings have an obligation to audit. These are all those companies whose revenues cross four million and 400,000 euros in traffic and public society in accordance with the law. Compared to the current state of the current 1,300 audit applicants will not have the obligation, as we can see it is about those whose traffic is low and who will not cause the risk that these four thousand have and some of the companies that are the bonds of the audit. The quality and efficiency of the audit is increasing, and companies that are new law-exempt are also reducing business costs. The Chamber of Authorised Auditors shall have the obligation to continuously improve the quality of the work of the auditors. The audits carried out by authorised auditors of the chamber will be increased. The function of the auditor must finally be understood as a function of public interest, but also as a function of great responsibility. Under this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia will form a special body of the Committee on Public Control of Auditing, for the control of the work of auditors, audit companies and chambers of authorised auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the implementation of this law in the coming period will be a significantly reduced possibility that no one is responsible for financial reports that will lead to some of the problems that we had in the previous period, let's say with the aforementioned "Agrobank". The third law is a factoring law. This is the first time Serbia has regulated factoring with law. This does not mean that the factoring in Serbia was not, on the contrary, factoring and so far has been a completely unnamed legal work that did not have any legal framework. So far, the financing of the purchase service of the existing, unaccompanied, future, short-term cash claims have taken place without any legal framework, without any legal certainty or certainty. This law introduces a legal framework, security and order in this kind of financial non-banking service. The question arises whether Serbia is in this exception? The exception is that so far we haven't had the law, but at global level factoring is constantly recording a growing trend, especially in recent years, because of the global economic crisis, and that's why we're doing this area. I also want to tell you that in export business over the past year 18% have been increased in Serbia factoring business. What are the benefits of passing this law? First of all, an increase in the liquidity of business entities, especially small and medium-sized enterprises primarily intended for this financial service, which traditionally have problems in debt due to low credit performance. Secondly, greater legal certainty is being created for factoring participants, and for both debtors and debtors, both for factors and for domestic and foreign investors, the debt of business entities is being reduced and their competitiveness increased. The arrangement of this area is very important for exporters because the transfer of the risk of collection is possible. This law also provides for the establishment of a factoring register. It is proposed that the APR form another register, a factoring register that should ensure greater transparency and security on the domestic factoring market. This proposal also provides for supervision of the performance of factoring operations. In the case of economic operators, the Ministry of Finance and Business and the NBS banks. It is important to say that the proposal for a factoring law is in line with best international practice and factoring rules. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you have important system laws that need to introduce a system in one part of the business of the real sector. If we really want a more efficient and competitive economy and the progress of the real sector, if we want to have more employment, if we want to have comparable systems on the global market, I call on you to show this in part by voting for these three laws. By helping the economy, we also help improve the lives of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20698	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20699	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP will not support these three laws for at least the reasons that contain the provisions of these laws, and more for the reasons that are suggested, which insinuate these three laws and their provisions, and more for the reasons why we have today a law on accounting and audit that is clearly not applicable. You haven't given us any reason to believe that something will change when you separate those two segments of one law, so make two new laws: one of accounting, the other of reviewing. We've been consulting with the professional public. The professional public, auditors, accountants, are not thrilled with the solutions of these laws. Moreover, they have addressed a certain appeal, noting that something is missing, that some quality of regulation is being destroyed, as far as accounting is concerned. The position of accountants is collapsing. The services they will also provide, as far as quality is concerned, will not meet certain standards that would have to be a priority. It's about the expert public. When we look at the social context in which these laws are discussed today, then we can see a very dismal picture of the state of the economy in Serbia, the real sector, as you say, Madam Minister. What's interesting is that you insist so much on this real sector, as if the other one is virtual. Obviously, we have parallel realities. One reality is that we really live in, and another reality is what is hypothetical, which is theoretical and in which reality is inhabited by our laws and in which reality we have some chance of changing economic policy, in which reality we can gain some economic growth of at least 2%, in which reality we will not reach 200 billion dinars of public debt, or deficit, in which reality is respected by laws and above all by financial discipline. Financial discipline is what this country lacks, as it has not been in the past 20 years. Based on indicators and real life and the state of the real sector, we cannot expect any more significant changes to occur. Let's look at how this government that has taken over the burden to strengthen this real sector, to strengthen the control of the functioning of finance in this country, to strengthen the importance of auditors, accountants, and to simply introduce one order, one discipline in the functioning of this real sector. It looks like the government's reconstruction is turning into one Spanish series. We hear from day to day that two or three heads of government met somewhere, discussed and parted for months. It is evident that the problems burdening the government have been raised. It is evident that government members, both prime minister and vice-prime minister, know where they failed, know who these are members of the government who are not doing their job well. They are aware of the consequences for Serbian citizens, this kind of work is not within the government. But instead of moving quickly to this job and reconstructing the government or if it can't be reconstructed, well, please, let's go to the elections. It's delayed from day to day, week to week, month to month. It is obvious that by the end of the month we will probably not get a government report on whether to reconstruct, if they will, how they will reconstruct the government, which the ministers will change, why these ministers will change and what the real objectives of this government are. So does this mean that we have to start a new agency, a new control body that's actually going to be doing government work reports from day to day, week to week and year? It is obvious that this government itself has no capacity and has no ability to take responsibility to citizens who have actually voted for the political parties that are now making up this power. When we look at five billion euros for the payment of claims for 2013 in terms of loans and interest, the question immediately arises – how is it possible that this amount occurred if we already had some laws that regulated both financial reports and financial controls, all that is intended to prevent this kind of irrational spending of funds? You will allow, if you have a five-billion-euro debt in one year, it is nothing more than a huge ballast that has actually been created by one irresponsible, one boastful, and one greedy, incompetent government. I don't want to get into what the government has produced these debts, because for a year this government has, since it formed, somehow missed that time period to change something more significant. In November of this month, you went out with a draft budget that we said was unrealistic. The fiscal council spoke of how unrealistic it was in terms of evaluation and planning and income and expenditure. Then it was also said that the deficit you predict is absolutely irrational and unrealistic and that it belongs to that virtual reality, to that parallel world of theoretical possibilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20700	Please go back to the topic, and the topic is accounting, audit and factoring.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20701	Of course, Mr. President. That is exactly what it is, that if these laws are to introduce some order in this financial area, then it is up to us to talk about something and how we have come into this situation of absolute financial irresponsibility and one relationship that is inappropriate for the government in this economic crisis towards the economy, according to the real sector, as Mrs. Minister would say. Last year, a provision was introduced in the Budget Law that is precisely diametrically contrary to that tendency to introduce order into the real sector, which is the member of the law that you deleted with this budget rebalance. The member allowed the government to be further in debt, take loans and give guarantees despite those forecasts set out in Article 3. Budget law. We have also pointed out that this will give absolute autonomy to the existing government to have and take loans without any control and without legal restriction. In the end, you came to what we said and you actually confirmed that we warned you in time and that in time we told you what it was that would not work in your economic policy. Unfortunately, these economic policies continue in the same style, in the same trend, as it was started 20 years ago, because we do not see any more serious modernisation capacities and reform capacities that would give us hope that you will change this devastating economic resonation, that we will solve all problems by not solving them, which we will leave somewhere for some future generations, and that those burning problems, monetary ones, solve new loans, new responsibilities and, in fact, finance a public sector that is the greatest burden of the Serbian economy. As far as the public sector is concerned, you've done absolutely nothing. Public enterprises remain, in fact, in an intact state still remain a place for political parties, in fact, some of their wishes, to meet their needs at the heart of the growth of the budget deficit. The subsidies didn't cut anything. You didn't take care of how the financial reports were actually written. In the public company "Serbian Roads", we heard they haven't paid VAT in years. You didn't care what was going on in "Serb Railways". Tomorrow we'll see the problems of the "Electroprivreda of Serbia". "Serbigas" and not to mention. So this is all that remains as one unresolved problem, one problem that has only been transferred to some others, possibly new authorities that will come if you don't reconstruct this government by the end of the month, maybe in the fall. The bottom line is, if you really think about changing your relationship seriously, changing your attitude towards the economy, changing your attitude towards public enterprises, towards private businesses and entrepreneurs, and then you have to change a lot, so that these changes happen to 180 degrees, not only to change the cosmetic nature, in terms of writing laws that, perhaps, will satisfy European content standards as far as some forms are concerned, but not to follow that real life, the real reasons why we have this problem of financial nature, the growth of unemployment, the growth of public debt, the large budget deficit and, in fact, the inability to enter some more serious reforms. Don't worry about how you're gonna make those beautiful wishes you talked about today. I wouldn't even argue with that if you meant it. You really expect these laws to change slightly more than the situation that was during the existence of this unique accounting and audit law. Good intentions may not have been disputed, although we would have challenged the reasons to believe in your optimism. Because you've made your expectations out of these laws very optimistic today, and I don't think there's any optimism. There is no optimism for this reason because these laws, which provide for some more serious access to these financial reports, to financial control, or to one order in the financial sector, also provide for these laws to be applied. If you don't have the political will to apply these laws, you'll just continue that policy that has been dominant so far. It's not about laws being passed, it's about laws being applied. You haven't given us reason to believe that something will change now with these laws, no matter how much they talk about it and that the foreign professional public, that the international community is also agreeable about it and that it welcomed the content of these laws and that's not enough. Serbia is a high-indebted state, with a trend in the growth of the public debt. Serbia is a country that has increased its debt by about two and a half billion euros by about May. Serbia is a state that only produces, apparently, debts, producing inability to change something about these debts. Serbia is a country that pushes its real problems aside. That's the problem with these laws, too. The least of the problems are whether you're going to write that these financial reports are going to be written by one or the other auditors. The least of the problems is that you will say that it will be necessary to increase their number, as far as the accountant is concerned. I suppose it was your will and desire when you excluded that possibility to in some way limit that profession in that sense that only educated accountants could do those accounting reports. If you allow anyone to do accounting reports and to deal with accounting, in this case you do not give the profession a chance and give some quality controls and reports. I'm really sorry that so much time had to go by without you continuing to give up your practice so far, which is to forget where you live, that you're still giving advantage to party structures, and still giving an advantage to one of the profiling systems, a system that has proved so unproductive. We're not voting for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20702	The word is made by Minister Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20703	People's MPs, thank you very much for your discussion. This suggests even more leads us to believe that the laws are such, that they are essentially hard to find objections. Because you haven't made any concrete remarks about these laws, and that says that they're really very hard to make in this text the remarks they've been set up. Of course, you talked about the issues that are related to the general problems in this society, the borrowing, the budget that was on the agenda two weeks ago, and I assume you repeated that discussion on subsidies to public enterprises, business in public enterprises, but you didn't talk about the essence of the new law on audit, accounting and factoring. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that these laws are really written by a large number of people who have been involved in this matter since October. I would like to mention that Professor Kata Škarić of the Faculty of Economics, who was one of the biggest experts in our country for this area, was a member of the task force, but that the members of the working group were also consultants from the World Bank who also took care of the respect of international standards on financial reporting and state-of-the-art practice. And also, I want to tell you that this is a law that has passed an extensive public debate and that it has been most positively expressed by the employers' union and the Chamber of Commerce and the Faculty of Economics and the vast number of domestic businessmen operating in our economic system, believing that this is necessary if we want to arrange this area. For this reason, I thank you once again for not having any concrete objection to the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20704	The replica of Mrs Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20705	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, I started my discussion, and obviously you didn't listen very carefully, by saying that the least problem is what is in the terms of these three laws, that much more of the problem is what is behind these laws, what has started the writing of these laws and what you expect from these laws. That's the problem, Madam Minister. You have not given us any argument that would give us the opportunity to really believe that something more serious will change about financial control, financial reports, financial discipline, not to come back to the situation in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2020, 2025, to pay for all the mistakes you make in walking while these laws apply. Madam Minister, we have discussed the Budget Rebalancing Act, but you have forgotten that this rebalancing came for the reason that you did not listen carefully to us in November 2012, and you obviously do not listen to us today. That is, in fact, the reason for us to be and how cautious when we talk about the laws proposed by this government. So that's the basic problem, not in the very text of any of these three laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20706	National MP Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20707	Your Honor, Madam Kalanovic, I am pleased to speak of this set of laws today. I would just like to draw attention to one fact that irritates me, which is our inevitableness and will be repeated for the next ten years probably in the Assembly, which every presentation on these laws must start with - harmonising domestic legislation with EU regulations is inevitable in the process of further European integration of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we have to start with, and that's what we agreed on. I'd like to draw attention -- there are enough senior colleagues here like me, only a few younger people who don't remember Social Accounting Services. Before I start talking about the Accounting and Audit Act, I'd just like to remind myself that, personally, that it was a historic mistake for us to abolish the Social Accounting Service. It was the best clearing system in Eastern Europe, and probably throughout Europe. What we're doing today, we're passing laws in the Assembly, the SDK had as a solution and they had solutions that worked. But, well, we've decided to change everything and now we're adapting everything to European standards and let's talk about the present. Bringing amendments to the Accounting Act, some of these amendments to the Accounting and Audit Act are necessary and certainly these changes are good and in the coming years we will have some changes again. Economy and accounting are a living system, and it has to change and adapt all the time. But I would like to refer to a statement by Mrs Kalanovic, and I think she's very right about that. We've had a couple of huge scandals in banks over the past few years that I'm not going to talk individually about "Agrobanks," whether we're talking "Matalsbans" or what we're calling it now "Vojvodine Development Bank" or some banks that I'd rather not name yet, and obviously there's going to be scandals in the next few days. Just one thing to say. We've had an existing Audit Act all these years, but I haven't seen an auditor answer that signed the annual report on these banks yet. We currently have the directors of banks in prison who have been issuing that money, we have those who ran with those money down the street, but I haven't seen anyone who signed and signed the annual reports of those banks saying that all this is okay. I think we've had political will in the last year. The laws existed and I think it's a good thing that happens in the next few months, too, to see one of those who signed the reports. One of the following laws, which I specifically wanted to talk about, is the factoring law, because this is the first time we've passed a legal framework on factoring, and in recent years there have been factoring companies. This is what concerns me in this country, which is one form of financial business that is not regulated by the legal framework. I don't understand how it happened to us, how we missed it, and it's a good thing we're correcting it now. In this presentation, we should talk about the general view of the law, but I would ask Mrs Kalanovic to adopt my remarks, that in Article 6, because I am not satisfied with the level of founding monetary capital, and I call on the government to raise capital from 40 million to at least 100 million dinars for a simple reason that 40 million dinars no matter how much it sounded not enough for the serious work of a factoring house. I would also like to draw Mrs Kalanovic's attention to the fact that today we are talking about conditionally speaking to the financial and accounting laws, but I would like to see the bill that would be called, I suppose, the law on the regulation of micro loans by the non-banking sector. As we have a factoring that's been functioning for a few years without a legal framework, we have some kind of gray market micro loan, I don't call it black because these micro loans are given by registered and legal companies, but it essentially comes down to greening. Currently in Serbia, we have some companies that are registered for something called financial consulting, whatever it is, that sign with private persons micro-loans contracts, and these contracts and interest regulations are not controlled by the National Bank of Serbia, because we do not have a legal framework on this, and this is a hidden form of greening. Just to remind you and everyone here is present that it's a crime. I don't know what the penalty is, but I know for a fact that greening in Europe has been considered a crime since the 16th century. This is just another law from the financial sector that we'd have to have here in the Assembly as soon as possible because I think it's a field that should be treated as soon as possible. The review bill we've proposed here is good, it introduces some newspapers that will show whether they're good, especially the control body. At this point, I'm not 100% sure how it's going to come back to life, it sounds good on paper. That's what we call it, the Committee on Auditor Control, now I can't remember exactly what we called in the law, actually it's a body that should consist of experts of economic professions that aren't auditors, but have the authority to be. I'm afraid, at least on paper, it looks like there's going to be a duplication of the accounting chamber function, but in the course of the discussion, I'd ask you to reassure me possible, I'm leaving space, if I perhaps misunderstood their function, and I thought it would be a duplication of authority. New Serbia will vote in favour of the bill, not because of the coalition contract we signed a year ago, but because we are aware of the necessity to improve this sector by passing new laws. I think, in general, the Revision Act as proposed covers a number of economic operators, which I think is good, and on the other hand, I repeat my initial exposure, all of which we had 15 years ago in the SDK. My God, we don't have it anymore and now we're making new laws to regulate it. Thank you, and I'll get back into the discussion when I hear something that I think is relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20708	The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20709	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Kalanovic and other members of the government, the subject of these two legislative proposals is two very important and closely related economic and financial areas. The current 2006 Accounting and Audit Act, which regulates the matter of corporate accounting, was to a lesser extent in line with the EU's Fourth and Seventh Directive, which is the basis for the regulation of the financial report, individual and consolidated financial reports by companies within the EU, indicating the need for harmonisation of domestic legislation in this area. The current Accounting and Audit Act will be divided into two specific laws, so that the matter of corporate accounting will be normally regulated by a special accounting law, which will also meet the requirement of the Eighth Directive with a specific and detailed regulation of the area of statutory audit through the new law on audit in the adoption procedure. The new accounting law will lay down different criteria for the classification of enterprises. Unlike the current three categories, small, medium and large, a fourth category will be introduced into the new law – micro-enterprises, entrepreneurs and enterprises up to 10 employees with a lower income and value of assets. In this way, as well as by changing the criteria for corporate classification, within these categories, a greater number of them will be classified as lower categories for which different, simpler accounting systems apply. In this part, there is the largest paper adopted by the new law, which is that new financial standards for accounting management will be applied in the future, starting in 2015, which are in line with EU standards. These standards are internationally harmonised, and they are simpler when making reports. In this way, not only will certain savings be achieved when the report is drawn up, but their greater transparency and currentity will be achieved, as shorter deadlines are provided for the delivery and publication of the report by the Agency for Economic Registers. Special relief will be given to micro-enterprises who will be obliged to draw up only balance sheets and balance sheets of success. An even bigger newspaper will also pass the proposed review law. More stringent conditions are foreseen regarding the process of obtaining a licence, and I think it is important that, when applying for a licence, a list of related persons with founders will also be sought in the future, at least partially closing the possibility of possible non-compliance with the law. This law will highlight the principle of transparency in the business of audit houses, as they will have to make public their annual report on transparency, with data on their business, and will also be subject to a critical court of experts. The mutual relationship between the audit firm and the legal person subject to the audit will be governed by a mutual agreement, the essential elements of which are precisely referred to in Article 25. A proposal for this law, which will achieve greater legal certainty for both sides. Both of these laws are one round segment that will give new quality to our corporate legislation system. The PUPS parliamentary group will vote for their adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20710	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20711	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will speak, I will focus on the factoring law from the aspect and on what I represent in Parliament most, which is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the potential for new employment. In fact, the factoring law cannot be seen outside the general economic and economic context and the possibilities of small, micro and medium-sized enterprises to be in debt on the financial market. What is relevant information, which we have from the market, is that our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to the greatest extent possible, which is over 60%, cannot be in charge of formal financial institutions, commercial and investment banks. So over 60% of the latest research. In medium-developed countries, this percentage is 30%, and in developed countries it is 15%. The interest on loans received by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in banks is the largest in the region. They amount to, when it comes to domestic currency, 16.1%. Compared to the region, let's say Macedonia, Romania, Bulgaria, that percentage is higher by seven, eight percent or even 100%, which makes it clear that the funding opportunities are, and hence, for potential investments of small and medium-sized enterprises, reduced and reduced to the least possible level. Thus, the Risk Management Factoring Act, which will certainly lead to an increase in the liquidity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, is something that is very positive in the scope of the implementation and implementation of reform processes when it comes to the economy and economy of our country. What represented one of the biggest problems that today plagues our economy is great indifference. Before the adoption of the Payment Times Act, which we voted in parliament this year, that indifference, when converted into figures, was 10 billion euros, when it comes to private and public sectors. It should not be forgotten, in particular, that the public sector is one of the generators of liquidity and the generators of what has been going on for the past five, six years in our economy, and this is the situation when we have at certain times more than 60,000 companies that have an account blockade and cannot function normally and survive, that we are not talking about an extended reproduction, that we are not talking about some development and a source of new employment, which in any case the small and medium-sized enterprises should represent with us. In addition to the Economic Payments Act, which limited payments, both the public sector and the private sector in each other's payments and transactions, the factoring law will definitely lead to small and medium-sized enterprises, and even micro-enterprises, being able to make use of liquid assets, as investment funds, which will certainly give a new impulse and an incentive for these companies to develop their business, to invest their products and services and, of course, what is most important, to be competitive on the market. When it comes to this model of non-banking financing of the economy, our country is very negative. Only 3% of the total financing of the economy in our country implies funding through non-bank institutions. The highest and highest percentage, two-thirds, makes the licking itself not used in full capacity, and I also urge the representatives of the ministry and the government to make certain changes, so that the licking can fulfill its true function, which is that farmers acquire agricultural equipment, that small and medium-sized enterprises and manufacturers acquire machinery and tools. With us, only 1% of small and medium-sized enterprises use this instrument to access funds and potential equipment purchases. Why? Because we're the only ones in the region, as part of the Lising Act, who have a obligation to pay VAT on interest when it comes to licking jobs. In the EU, in developed countries, factoring jobs is used by 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition to what I have cited, the major problems caused by the public sector in this domain, as I said, as an indifference generator, is what is called moral gambling, what the government and parliament and all the social factors, employers and trade union representatives should work on, and that is that our economic operators must behave in accordance with ethical codes and good economic and business practices. But if you have one country in the previous period that has, for example, spent its heartaches, which allowed itself to owe private businesses, to drive them into a blockade, to drive them into bankruptcy, of course, it is an impulse for private businesses to do the same thing, of course for the citizens, and in this way it creates this vicious circle of indifference that at one point, in March of this year, amounted to 10 billion euros, which represents as much as 20% more than the total budget of our country. In addition, the biggest problems, when it comes to liquidity, are the ineffectiveness of the executive process, the abuse of bankruptcy proceedings and the low level of what is called the leverage of small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore, the relationship between capital and debt. In our country, the ratio between capital and debt in small and medium-sized enterprises is two to one, and in the EU, the ratio is one to two and one to two and a half. I would also point out that, when it comes to accessing businesses, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, Serbia's funding sources are 105th out of 144th positions. Surely the factoring law, if applied in full capacity, which I have no doubt, will also attract new companies, new economic operators that meet the conditions defined by the law. In that domain, I can also agree with my colleague Grujic, who has made a quality proposal to raise the threshold for participation in the market for such enterprises from 40 million to 100 million dinars, as it is a serious job. In any case, within this sector, we need to develop a healthy, good competition, but also the competition of the best and best-quality players, not only in the region, but also globally. In addition, I would also mention what is needed as a by-product under the legislation and legislation, and that is also a solution to the problem of microcrediting and microfinance through the definition of the legal framework, the Law on microfinances and the Law on Microfinance, and I believe that, as an additional instrument and as an additional tool, a very good and positive one would make micro, small and medium-sized enterprises rise to one qualitatively better level, especially when we talk about the micro-enterprise sector, about start-up enterprises, about beginners in business, who definitely have no possibility of coming to any liquid means. What I would point out, and what the factoring law offers, is a potential option for micro-enterprises to use such services and factoring jobs, and thus to obtain quality and liquid financial resources. I believe that the factoring law, with certain amendments to the Lising Act, legislation when micro-crediting and micro-financing is at stake, can create one qualitative but also quantitatively good framework for the development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which at the moment is not exactly in a good position, but what this government, the ministry and Parliament themselves are supposed to do, and we as MPs are creating a quality environment for the growth of these enterprises, because you will agree, if 99% of the total number of enterprises do not have a quality environment for development, there are no quality legal frameworks, we cannot talk about any growth, but neither the solution to the biggest and most important problem for our country, and this is the problem of unemployment that currently stands at some 26% of the methodology of the International Labour Organization, according to some other methodologies, this percentage is much higher. Therefore, Serbia's SDP will support the factoring law in the voting day, of course, and the Accounting and Audit Act, which we do not have any more serious objections to, for the reason that we believe that this will increase competitiveness, which will diversify capital in the financial market, which will be good for the growth and development and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but especially micro-enterprises that are very important at this point. I'll remind you of what happened in Poland when she was in the transition process. That's the model we need, because we have 40,000 companies opening annually, and the closure of 39,000 companies. We need 50,000 companies to open, and any closure due to inability to work and compete on the market, 35,000 or 40,000. We need that difference from 10,000 to 15,000 new, healthy enterprises. Therefore, anything that contributes to raising the capacity of that part of the economy and potential opportunities for new employment, we will, in any case, support, based on competent analyses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20712	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20713	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, honourable representatives of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members, three draft laws are before us today – a bill on accounting, a draft law on revision and a proposal for a factoring law, three very important laws that touch both economic operators and state, and above all through the prism of the budget. The Accounting Act and the Audit Act are particularly important. According to your explanation, the argument of the Government, you say that these two areas are now, unlike the previous legal solution, separate and specifically explained by the Accounting Act, matter from accounting and the Audit Act, matter from the revision. I would agree with my colleague Grujic, your first argument is that it is a alignment with the EU directive. It is obvious that all the future laws we bring here, and they are related to the economy and general finance, will begin with the explanation that this is a harmonisation with the EU. However, the regulation of these areas is of great importance to our country. The adoption of accounting laws should, above all, raise a more significant level of quality in the production of financial reports. We should not in particular stress that the quality financial report, which is comprehensive, comparable, standardised, depends on the real income of our economy, depends primarily on the economic development, the arrival of new investors, the good financial report depends on both the reduction of crime and corruption in the economy, the reduction of tax evasion, the fill-up of the budget and the reduction of the budget deficit, which, as you can see, gives us this much trouble. Unfortunately, today is the situation, when accounting reports are both about their quality and trust in the truthfulness and objectivity of financial reports, and also in the staff that put them together at a very low level. Years ago, we all know that, financial reports are being read, ordered, so-called. Creative accounting that creates accounting reports as most often requested or managed by certain legal entities, the management of legal persons or the owners of those legal entities. This accounting law is today expected, with the right, to move more significantly in this direction, towards better quality financial reporting, and accounting profession and professional academic public and accounting service providers' associations and the most economy, because if we pass a law that, if it does not reduce economic costs, does not need to be increased. So, they all expect new financial reports to be standardised, comparable, comprehensive and above all true and fair when this law is applied. However, following an analysis of this accounting law's proposal, and we have mostly consulted almost all professional accountants, or profession associations, with some professional academic circles, with Serbian employers' associations, we are not sure that we can say that this law will meet all these expectations. I will briefly, through five or six significant newspapers that are being passed in the bill. First significant newspaper, a new classification of legal entities is being introduced. A new classification for micro-legislators is being introduced up to 10 employees up to 700,000 euros in annual income. Then there's small, medium and large legal faces. You say again in your reasoning that this is because of the harmonisation, or the application of the fourth directive of the European Union. Certainly, we can accept in some ways that you will bring this legislation in line with the European Union, but European legislation does not know entrepreneurs and does not know other legal persons. That's why we think it's small and irrational to introduce this entity to micro-legal persons, we're already more likely to remain entrepreneurs and other legal persons, and the rest of the legal persons are classified as small, medium and large, or as the law so far provides. It's another newspaper. You say the bill provides for micro-legislators and other legal persons to adopt, or to adopt, a special sub-legislative act, or a regulation, on which they will report, or later make their financial reports. And you're saying yourself that such legal persons are the most, somewhere around 109.000. It is 90% of the legal entities that exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, for 90% of these legal entities, you bring in a new rulebook, which is that you're making a new rule, you're literally going to force them to get new software, to allocate funds for new forms, to make new continuum plans, to put on human resources, whether the legal persons have an accounting service within a legal person or to do that to them special houses dealing with accounting services. According to the Employers' Association, these costs, which will now require economic costs, amount to around 25m to 30m euros. So all these costs I've listed will cost the economy, and that's, you know, the best you can do for years, about five to seven thousand new jobs in the economy. These legal entities have so far been working on a final plan that has been adapted to international standards of financial reporting, so either they or their service providers have already had final plans and patterns and software programmes, so that they would not, in fact, have any new costs in the future making of financial reports, and in particular that these financial reports that are now being done, according to some of our new Balkan rules or under this new sublegal act, will certainly not be comparable to those financial reports that these legal entities have had back since 2002, or 2004, and in particular what they will not be, so to say, readable to foreign investors, if they come and possibly be interested in any purchase. You say - the rule will be simplified, but these legal entities, these micro-legal persons and other legal persons, there are hundreds of thousands of associations, union associations, there are political organisations, there are micro-legal persons who have production, trade, services and actions, all of which are very diverse and very diverse, so we don't see that this rule will be so simplified as to be applied to all of these legal entities. Furthermore, you will definitely find more significant costs at the tax administration because the tax administration, as you say, in Article 45 of the Law, should monitor the quality, or control the correctness of the job of recording business changes. So, tax administration inspectors will have to be trained in a way by four to five levels of financial reporting, in order to adequately monitor all financial reports, according to the categories of legal entities, as you gave them. The third paper, the law says that you completely rule out the category of professional accountant. So, you've given, by liberalization, the right of every legal person to determine by means of its general act the expertise, the work experience and all the other conditions that a person needs to fulfil and that it can draw up an annual financial report. You know what, we can't eliminate a professional face. You know earlier that the accountant, head of accounting, was a key figure in one legal person, he was responsible for the fact that the financial report was true, objective, standardised, he guaranteed by his signature on the left hand side to the board of directors of the firm that he could sign it and that he could hand it over to the SDK then. So we simply think that there are professional associations in Serbia that have expertise, which have technical opportunities, which can and should educate young accountants, that these accountants have certain licences. You say - licenses are expensive, it requires new costs in the economy. However, we are telling you that an expert accountant is the first and primary defence against crime, corruption, from established and commissioned financial reports. If the financial report is good, probably the revision can be good later. What was not done in the beginning as a good financial report, which does not include a responsible person, as a professional accountant, believe me, cannot be subject to any or later quality audit. The fourth observation or amendment that you say, by this bill, is that Article 33 provides that the annual financial reports are to be delivered to the Agency for Economic Registers and that the Agency publishes those reports, but believe me, I ask you, who is today doing the essential and logical control of financial reports? The Agency for Business Registers accepts them, publishes on the site, the tax administration controls the regularity of business changes over the year, the way they are recorded, places some remarks on whether or not certain business changes have been made, but we no longer have an institution that essentially controls the quality of making financial reports. That's where I'd agree, that's what we wanted to point out, all of you know, the former SDK was the system that controlled it, it didn't need to pay the economy of the new charge to control the financial reports. Sure, looks like we need some SDK now, kid, in this law. Furthermore, the fifth paper envisions a national accounting commission. It should monitor the implementation of European Union directives, monitor the application of international standards of financial reporting, give opinions on the translations of these standards, but according to the assessment of the profession, I tell you again, so we have consulted, the general opinion is that so far this national commission has not responded to its task. She simply didn't move or improve the standards of making financial reports. Members of the commission, you're still suggesting they stay, you'd be state officials, so people who have some of their salaries, and you'd also receive a fee to work on these commissions, so here you have extra expenses at the Ministry of Finance to pay these hired persons. We would suggest, we have amended it and done that an independent body is formed from the representatives of the Ministry, the National Bank of Serbia, professional organisations, the Securities Commission and that their work be financed by these institutions which here and delegate them. In view of these remarks, we have two proposals or to withdraw this bill of accounting from the procedure or to accept our amendments that improve it better. If time allows me, I will also turn to the draft law on revision, on the proposal for a factoring law. By issuing the Law on Audit and the Common Law on Audit and Accounting, we said you respect Directives 4 and 8 of the EU. Let's say that we respect that, although we think that our autonomous laws on audit and accounting don't have to be bad apriors, that we automatically put them in an ad act, and that we accept and agree with European directives. What is an objection to the Accounting Act and to matter on accounting is also the application of the Audit Act. Unfortunately, the audit reports have been at a very bad level for years, not reflecting the quality of work and audit houses and licensed auditors. No matter how many affairs we have in public enterprises and in our domestic banks, we are not sure that the Audit Act has been implemented properly. This also illustrates that in 88% of the cases in 2012, auditors estimated that financial reports were correct, and only 2% or 3% made some remarks that financial reports did not meet the quality and standards of the law. We know what our situation is in reality, and crime and corruption in the economy and tax evasion and budget deficits and little foreign investors, and a collapsed economy and hundreds of thousands of lost jobs. In Article 4. The draft audit law you say that the audit can be carried out by the Revision Society in the Republic of Serbia, the audit societies of EU member states and the audit societies of third countries. For the first time now, the law opens the market for audit companies from EU countries and from third countries in our country. You'll say, I suppose, competition is good, and just by improving competition will also reflect the quality of the audit reports. However, we know that for years back, the audit mainly worked on four large audit houses that are mostly foreign capital, we all know what four audit houses are. These houses carried most of the work, the state gave them most of the work, they did consulting reports and audit reports for large public enterprises, for large banks, and we know how these audit reports ended and that ultimately these public enterprises and our banks ended up. You will now now favour this foreign audit firm again because the law among other things provides that the audit firm must have at least four licensed auditors for the audit of large legal entities. It will certainly be more significant to move our domestic audit companies in favour of these foreign audit houses. Another newspaper, licenses are now no longer issued by the chamber, but issued by the ministry. We don't know if the chamber has done it badly so far, we haven't seen yours, so to speak, a review of how the chamber has been working and why this part of the job is being taken away and how much it's going to cost the ministry because the chamber's already been trained, I guess it's been trained if it's been doing that job since 2006, both human and technical, that it can carry that part of the job. One of the most important newspapers now is, in Article 21 – Obligation to review. The bill says that the mandatory revision is now for large and medium-sized legal entities, for public companies, for entrepreneurs whose annual business income is more than 4,400,000 euros and for the parent legal entities working on consolidated financial reports. So now 4.392 on your legal person table is going to be reduced by 1,200 because of the new classification, the power, or the audit report, and it's going to be done through these 57 audit houses. I have to say again what it's cost for the economy. So, one audit costs between five and ten thousand euros, for 4,300 entities that are more than 30,000 euros, this obligation to audit these legal persons is literally sucked out of the economy and transferred to audit houses. We propose to exclude medium and small legal persons and entrepreneurs, i.e. these entrepreneurs of 4,400,000 euros, because that is 90%, I said a little before, legal persons, and with them is the main property and management of one. They do not need a mandatory revision every year, they can audit only where necessary in the case of status changes or in the case of privatisation and remain mandatory for large legal entities, for public companies but there is a special law and there is also a DRI for international investment funds. There is a 30,000,000-euro savings for the economy. Finally, it is envisioned to oversee the work of the chamber and the audit company and all the audit companies, the licensed auditors of the new body proposed by the government, which is the board of public oversight, out of seven members, who can be re-employed as state officials, again have double costs, the ministry's costs have been increased again. One objection to the board of public oversight, if it's already a roof supervisory authority why the government chooses it, why wouldn't the government propose it to the Assembly and we would choose it here. Let these institutions delegate it, let the government propose it on the basis of these proposals, and the National Assembly choose it. For the making of this law, not to forget, neither the opinion of the profession nor the opinion of the economy is respected until the end as it was meant to be. There is no obligation to develop an official methodology that would specify the revision procedure and thus significantly increase the quality of the audit carried out. I'll only have a few minutes to briefly refer to the factoring law as a whole new law that regulates the area of financial business in business entities. Just because it's a financial service to buy short-term domestic and foreign claims and it's only about seven or eight years away, ten years behind Western countries and some Balkan countries. It is mainly intended for small and medium-sized enterprises to improve their liquidity because, due to the inability to take short-term, classic credits with banks and their credit capabilities, they were forced to give back their claims for years, to release their crafts and to move on to their production process. It's a good thing the law is passed because it regulates a whole new financial area. It is good that the parties will also have as much legal certainty as possible and let's say that there will be greater liquidity, let's say that there will be greater competitiveness when it comes to capital, but we're not sure that there will be a very low price of that capital because small and medium-sized enterprises can't get credit because they are expensive and are not capable of credit, there won't be much cheaper factors for them, especially today in our country when the demand is very uncertain, i.e. the collection is very uncertain and when the debtors, because usually such demand is first sold, at a very suspicious charge, surely that service won't be very cheap. It's a good idea that the APR only runs the factor register, not the register of all contracts. They say employers, or their associations, in order to increase the cost of the economy, and in this way only through the factor register can transparency be seen. If the time is up, my colleagues will certainly continue and say everything I personally think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20714	Time didn't run out. You spent it. The word has Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20715	Dear People's MPs, thank you for your suggestions. What I'm going to agree with you to a good degree is diagnostics, because what you're talking about is our daily life and the adoption of these laws is exactly the answer to the state we have today. You're saying that we have financial reports that are very often ordered and that do not correspond to the right state and that I fully agree with you. On the other hand, at this point, we have problems that require the answer of one responsible government, and I cannot agree with those MPs who realize that the first thing that makes us bring these laws into line with the EU. It is one of the reasons and an agreement with the EU that clearly defines our future that we will harmonize with EU rules and that our goal is full membership in the EU. We make these regulations for ourselves. If I agree with your diagnostics, we're not doing it right now to become a full member, but to sort out the situation in our economy. That's why I won't agree with you with the criticisms that are occasional and contradictory when it comes to the newspapers that we're proposing. First, the newspaper to introduce the fourth group of companies, so-called. micro-enterprises, it's true that they have something over 109.000 and it's true that they are now submitting financial reports that include as much as five reports. By introducing this category and appropriate to their strength, and their strength, although the largest by number, is incomparably smaller in the overall relationship with large and medium and small enterprises. They are only taking up a few percent, reaching not a tenth in total income that all companies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have. So, according to the new law, they will submit two reports, a balance sheet and a balance sheet of success that implies a significant disbursement of these 109.000 and, regardless of what we consider to be a discharge, we believe that a sufficiently precise financial report of the company is appropriate to this economic power. Also, you say, we need to have financial reports that match the right condition. I completely agree with you. It's automatically contradictory of what you're saying, let's get out of the mandatory audit of all those who start in high school. Let me remind you, just a few, 1,400 companies, and of that 560 mean, these are bonds big in companies. Do you think they're the only ones who need to handle it, are they the only ones who are the bonds of the audit? We can't do that, financial discipline means 4,400 companies with mandatory audits. If you say, we pump out of 5,600, so times 8,000 how much an audit costs, no, we don't pump up, but we unload for those 1,300 companies that are not the bonds of the audit, which is the discharge, not the pump. Here's the exact information, by applying the criteria laid down in this Act 552 large enterprises are the bonds of the audit. That would mean that only they should be in the next period in the audit system. Also, on the one hand, you are in favour of introducing a national accounting committee, which has members who are not only representatives of the ministry. To remind you, the National Accounting Commission, whose members make up the renowned representatives of the NBS, the Securities Commission, the Tax Administration, the representatives of the finance ministry, as well as the academic circles, carry out continuously these complex tasks relating to the application of international standards of financial reporting. So it's not just the representatives of the ministries, it's the NBS representatives, it's the representatives of the Securities Commission. You are also talking about the introduction of public oversight and the Committee on Public Control of the Audit where representatives and ministries and the NBS and the Securities Commission are also located. We think it's a good analogy, one pandemic, where on the one hand we have a National Commission overseeing accounting affairs, and on the other hand, we have a Committee on Public Control for Audition. In factoring, we're talking about not being much cheaper. On the other hand, I hear remarks for those who are willing to enter the factor, need to increase the threshold from 40 million to 100 million. The idea of the legislator is that in the market for providing this type of financial services there is a greater number of those who can now increase liquidity, especially those who are in difficulty. We're aware that we have big interest rates, and I've been listening very carefully to a fellow SDPS who's talking about a 16.1% figure for small businesses. It's about those companies where the risk is slightly higher than the medium and the large, so the interest is so high. The idea is to increase the number of those who will lower interest on financial services. If a larger number arises which corresponds to the founding role of 40 million, it is clear that competition and interest will bring down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20716	The word has Gorica Gajic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20717	Yes, Your Honor, Madam Minister, we have made a complaint with micro-legislators about this sub-legal act that the ministry would adopt and regulate the standards by which they would later lecture and draft their financial reports. You know what, that's 109.000 legal entities, that's some new rules now, that's a new sublegal act that you're going to bring and that they're going to apply. You convince me otherwise. So, in consultation with the Union of Employers of Serbia, with associations, they say, people know, that now much higher costs will be for them to adapt to this new rule that you will bring. It was our fundamental change. So 90% of the operators you exempt from applying the international standards of the financial report and for them you write some new sublegal act, you say, which will be significantly simplified and will be able to apply it significantly simpler. I said, it's a bunch of legal faces with a variety of different structures. There is also production, trade in actions, other legal persons, political organisation, associations, and you simply cannot bring in such a rule that it will be so simplified that it suits all of them. So, that was why the new rules don't adapt the final plan to international standards for financial reporting, which they're already applying, so there are no new costs, neither to you nor to the economy. Furthermore, we say that if there should already be both bodies and the National Accounting Commission and the Committee on Public Control, but members of these bodies, it is true that they should be from all institutions, but they do not have to ask for new costs, even though they are civil servants, whether they are such contentable, complex jobs, because it is not easy to do a review today, that is to say, a roof authority that audits all the audit houses, the quality of the work of these audit houses. Simply, that body of seven members composed in this way and chosen, among other things, we said that the Public Oversight Committee should be elected by the Parliament on a proposal from the Government, if it should already exist and if we think it is not enough to say so, it will not be dedicated enough to do such a complex job...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20718	Mrs. Gajic, two minutes and 24 seconds, please. Mr. Grujic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20719	Just to get myself into the discussion as authorized. I use the time I have in front of the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20720	You can only use your time after all the speakers are finished, in the end. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20721	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Kalanovic, the distinguished representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my presentation, I will take the opportunity to congratulate Mrs Kalanovic on winning the prestigious international award "Most Manager of the region of Central and Southeast Europe" and I am sure that you will receive these awards not only in international frameworks, but also in the domestic field. It's going a little harder with us, usually we first prove ourselves on the international agenda. As for today's three proposals, the fact is that in this session we had budget rebalances and that the dominant theme of this session was certainly budget rebalancing. What is common to all the discussions held during the budget rebalancing is one fundamental agreement that, apart from one serious saving, serious structural reforms at all levels are necessary. However, there will only be a serious recovery of the state when we recover our economy and we raise economic activity to a much higher level. Today, far richer countries than Serbia, including France and Germany, are looking for ways to increase their gross social product, how to escape recession and, of course, what data indicate in the first quarter of this year, that GDP in Serbia has increased by around 1.9%, that exports have increased by almost a quarter, that imports have stagnated, that the external trade deficit has decreased by a fifth, clearly indicates a certain trend of positive movements. It is clear to all of us that it is not enough for all of our citizens to feel these positive movements and that much will be needed in the coming period to do so in order for each of our citizens to feel that improvement. What all politicians, analysts and businessmen also agree is that this country needs re-industrialisation, but certainly it is a serious, long-term process and that the positive consequences of the process will be visible over the longer term. What we can all do together at this point is remove all these obstacles to business management in the country of Serbia. Today, we are talking about three system laws that facilitate business management in the country of Serbia. I would also point out that in the previous period, the Ministry of Finance came up with serious proposals, which, I say, were adopted in this assembly and applied already on the ground, by abolishing over 130 parafiscal duties, and also by adopting tax laws, making it possible for our entrepreneurs to make significant concessions. I'll move on to the factoring law first. As far as the factoring law itself is concerned, it is known that the area of factoring in the country of Serbia appeared in 2005, and that it is, of course, a financial service and a financial mechanism, which it won at the current stage of the economic and financial crisis. After the economic and financial crisis has entered and on our territory, in our climate, it is clear that our entrepreneurs have come into serious liquidity problems, with a lack of craftsmanship, but with a significant problem with the collection of their claims. Just factoring as an instrument today gives answers to these solutions. Two reasons why the country's factoring in Serbia so far is no longer used to solve these problems. The first reason is precisely one lack of information, and I would say, significant prejudices on one factoring complexity as a financial instrument. The second reason is certainly the lack of a serious and complete legal framework, and we today and in the voting day should correct that lack by adopting the factoring law itself. What exactly is factoring? I have already said, a financial service, a financial instrument to which the seller, client or how the law defines it – the consignor, the seller, or the sale or failure of his inaccessible claim to the factor or factoring institution, which now assumes the payment obligation from the buyer. So, charges for delivered goods and services on the domestic or foreign market. Thus, factoring can be domestic, ino, can be regressed and without, depending on who takes the risk of collection. In this transaction itself, as I said, three members are involved, and they are the consignor, the factor and the debtor. What are the basic advantages of factors, factoring? The main advantage of factoring is precisely the disbursement of own balances, by the very process of depriving claims, then eliminating the risk of collection, increasing liquidity and the possibility of a faster turnover of capital, improving the credit performance without burdening the limits of banks. All those entrepreneurs who have heard about the factoring service or who for the first time today hear that there is a factoring service, and believe me, there are a large number of our entrepreneurs who do not know about this possibility, asking the question – what is the difference and what are the advantages of short-term lending, short-term credit in business banks, relative to factoring? The main advantage is when you seek credit with a business bank, that business banks take as a basic criterion for credit rating and value, the quality of collateral. In the case of factoring, the basic criterion is the quality of the claim. Of course, neither the credit rating nor the customer and the client is excluded. Then, factoring brings more competitiveness in the expansion of production, in the acquisition of new markets, in the purchase of raw materials, of course, if you have finished money, it is clear that under better conditions you will get raw materials and avoiding those costs that the seller himself would have on the collection of his claims. Generally, these are high costs of administrative, communications costs and other costs burdening the seller himself during the whole process of billing his claims. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is already said, I would like to commend it, a very serious public debate, involving mostly all the relevant factors, which make up today's factoring scene in Serbia and which are gathered in the factoring section of the Chamber of Commerce, then foreign factors in factoring and, of course, representatives of all of those eminent institutions that have something to say in this area. I would also like to commend, which is very important to us MPs, the fact that the reasoning we have received under this law is a clear indication that the draft of this law has been approached very professionally. The question arises, what is the legal environment that affects factoring, except for the trial system factoring law itself? The fact that tax treatment according to factoring service is friendly, that the Law on VAT, as well as the Law on Tax on Profit, does not make it difficult to develop only factoring as financial services, but there is a certain possibility and legal intervention to the Law on Liabilities, the Foreign Trade Act, and also the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. What we are looking forward to is the announcement by the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists, that some barriers that have somehow prevented the further development of factoring as services will be removed in this law. As far as factoring services themselves are concerned, it is clear that the greatest benefit from it will be medium and small enterprises. Clearly, in a much easier way, funds will be made. It is clear that legal certainty will increase and that more investment will be possible. Also, there is a possibility for all of ours, I would say, small economic factors, which so far are unable to finance their participation in multinational chains, are now being given the opportunity to participate in the game. What is the process of factoring itself, precisely because of those who intend to do it in the next period and use this possibility? After the sale of the goods, the buyer or consignor shall deliver the invoice to the factor, with a statement of apportionment. After that, the factor assumes the obligation to assess the amount it may grant or, as the institutions say, the limit for carrying out that job and the access to the payment of that claim. At the same time, he pays an advance to the delivery of goods or services, approximately 80 to 90% reduced for commission services. In case it's about the escont note, that the buyer covered that claim with the bonds, in which case the advance is 100%. Of course, the moment the entire invoice is paid, when it comes to the arrival of that invoice, at that point the factoring pays the remaining amount of money to the credentials, accounting for all costs, commission and interest. One of the colleagues asked the question - is this service more favourable than the services provided by banks in short-term loans? Of course it is. The agency for the insurance and financing of interest exports at this point on the dinar assets is 12%, on the foreign exchange funds is 7%, so it is certainly more favourable treatment than in business banks. Given that the URS in its programme, and not only in its programme, and in its functioning recognises the need to help the economy and is aware that there is no serious recovery of this country without investment in the economy, each of us will support this law in the day of voting. As for the other two laws, it has already been repeated repeatedly that the Accounting and Audit Law has so far functioned and applied as a single law adopted in 2006. Of course, it has already been mentioned several times, the conclusion of the Osmedireptiva has been proposed to separate these two laws and we have today on the agenda these two laws. Certainly, the Accounting Act brings more quality financial reports, that it brings more financial discipline and responsibility, that it regulates electronic invoices in more detail, shortens deadlines for the delivery of adopted audited financial reports and, as the colleague said, harmonizes our legislation with European legislation. As for improving the quality of financial reports, it is achieved by adapting accounting rules to the economic strength and size of legal persons. I wouldn't repeat myself. It has been said repeatedly that in the classification, let me say, now proposed in law is a new entity, a new category, a micro-legal person, and there is no need to ask a question. Speaking to those little micro-faces, we've already said, who employ up to 10 employees, that it's going to be a big discharge for them. Of course, each of them knows what the balance sheet is, the balance of success, and they don't need to be paid to represent a burden for them. There have also been objections in the public and there have been skepticism on whether it is necessary, and this law for the first time defines financial reports that are in line with medium and small enterprises, which are in line with international standards of financial reporting for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is clear that this is also a significant level of relief, as medium and small enterprises provide their reports after a simplified process, but have the opportunity to do so too. the international financial reporting standards in full capacity if they consider that they should participate in the international market and their reports to be recognizable and acceptable or to be stimulating for all types of capital. It is clear that, and that is to say repeatedly, over 110 000 new legal entities will have one easier way of financial reporting. We certainly consider it to be one of the good assets of this law. As regards strengthening financial discipline and accountability, the collective responsibility of the management body for the assembly and accuracy of financial reports is determined. The question has been raised here – whether legal persons must hire a licensed, with a special school, a member of a special association, or, let me say, with some other attributes, a particular professionally authorised person to draw up a financial report. The very fact that there is collective responsibility for the assembly and accuracy of the financial report and the financial representative, the director and members of the board of directors, but also of the person responsible for drawing up the report, it is clear that the owner of the legal person company will take care of whom he will take for the authorised person to draw up the financial report, but thus we relieve entrepreneurs that we impose legal obligations on them that it must be a very specific person with certain attributes. Of course, we do not prevent them from engaging in law and such a person, but on the other hand we give them opportunity and collective responsibility. As far as the electronic invoice is concerned, it is clear that the law has improved the whole story, defined the issue and registration of an electronic invoice, and also the keeping of financial reports in electronic form, but also the delivery of a financial report in electronic form to the Agency for Economic Registers, starting with the 2014 financial report, i.e. for micro-enterprises for 2015. The consequence of the law is that after the start of its application, we will have the opportunity to learn earlier that our economy worked in the previous year with the very fact that the new deadline for the delivery of the adopted revised financial reports is June 30th, not until now, September 30th. I would also mention that the balance sheets, the balance sheets and the statistical report are delivered by the end of February as well as in the previous year. As far as the Revision Act is concerned, I say once again, we are in line with EU legislation, but not because of the EU but because they have a regulated system of reviewing financial reports. The law itself regulates the full matter of reviewing financial reports, regulates the conditions for legal and physical persons who can do this very responsible job. Of course, it determines the responsibility of those persons, the procedures for issuing and withdrawing licences, the ethical and professional code. Then, the basic methodological rules for carrying out the audit are established, control methods are established, but, as is the basic paper and I would say one of the major flows of this law is certainly independent public oversight of the conduct of the audit. I would point out that the mandatory revision for regular annual reports for large and medium-sized legal persons, in accordance with the Accounting Act, which I am already talking about, then, public companies, in accordance with the law governing the capital market, legal entities that had income in the previous financial year are greater than four million and 400 euros, regardless of the size and all those parent legal entities that provide consolidated reports. By considering and analysing the classification of legal entities under the accounting law, we understand that somewhere around 1300 legal entities, under this bill, will have less obligation to revise mandatory financial reports, which clearly indicates significant savings. What is passed by law is greater transparency and it is the obligation of the companies to review that by 31 March of each year they submit a report on transparency for the previous financial year. The transparency report itself must contain a description of the legal form and structure of ownership, a list of those companies in which the audit company carried out the statutory audit, then financial information and financial information on how much money the audit company made in the previous year, as well as other financial reports. Also, greater powers and responsibilities of the chamber of authorised auditors are being introduced. So, the chamber now has an obligation to adopt and conduct a program of exams for authorised auditors, but also for their continuous education. The Chamber shall also be responsible for the quality control of the work of auditors and audit companies. As I said, the Committee on Public Control of Audition, which is composed of a representative of the Government, a representative of the National Bank and a representative of the Securities Commission, conducts supervision of quality control of the work of auditors and audit companies, conducts surveillance of the work of the Chamber and conducts supervision of the licensing of auditors by issuing licences to the audit companies. All of this is clearly taken into account that all three of these legal solutions bring the newspaper, which overcompensate, remove certain barriers that have stalled entrepreneurs in some way. It is clear that the URS, as always when some legal acts have been passed that have helped businesses, will support these legal solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20722	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20723	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to have a bit of a joke, and I hope my colleague gets some office in the reconstruction of the government, since he's got such a nice commendation, even though we're joining the congratulations. Today, we are facing very important laws whose realisation will solve a good part of the problem that plagues our economy and society at all. These laws are laws that call for responsibility, accuracy, reliability, which should be the beginning of establishing trust in a society. If there is a deeper analysis of what these laws have passed in a truly comprehensive process, and I will not agree with any of my colleagues, the relevant expert public participated in this process and, in my view, it may be best to start with the accounting law, so later I will continue with the other laws that are before us today. Of course, accounting is important to all of us, I hope to the colleagues on the left, I hope they're interested in accounting, it's important for all of us to know at all times that we can translate into currency units where we are, where we're going, and are we going where we're going? As with any measure, every measure is not simply good for everyone, and this law frees micro-enterprises from a completely unnecessary obligation to run books in a way that was largely similar to keeping business books of medium and small and large enterprises. As with the Revision Act, we are harmonising our legislation with EU legislation and of course we should do so and I don't know why some colleagues have a problem with it. I guess that's what we do for ourselves, we see that it's much better there than we do for us and there's no reason to resist such suggestions. In accounting, coordination is carried out with the EU's fourth and seventh directives. However, harmonisation is not complete, but on the principles of harmonisation and beauty of fine-tuning speeds with EU legislation I will say more when I talk about the law on revision. This law is relevant from the point of view of the introduction of micro-enterprises as a business category in terms of the rights and obligations of undertakings of this size. The basic principle is the real power of the company or rather, the size of the company. It will then have the obligation to apply three criteria, and it needs to meet two of the existing three criteria. Micro-enterprises will apply the Ministry Regulation, which should allow them to move their activities as much as possible towards creating new values, not as they have so far, only by reporting. This law sees something that has caused many institutions to rebel, which is liberalisation. There are no more monopolys of any kind on the accounting market, and it is up to companies to choose who will run their books. I don't see any reason why there's so much controversy among colleagues, because I as the owner of a company or whoever's the CEO will probably choose someone who's worth it, who's listed well on the market and as someone who's a professional, and that's famous. Whether there are five certificates or one or not, of course there is a free choice here. I must say that the law introduces new opportunities in the field of electronic business, which puts us in the same basket with developed European countries, both in the area of payment and in the area of handing over final reports. When it comes to the law on audits, it is the audit that tells us if the accountants did their job, but also whether the managers acted in accordance with the law and good business practices. The audit is as important as the institution of the Court of Appeal in the field of law, and it is therefore very important that we step forward with good European practices and that we apply in this area solutions that need to raise the quality of information, as well as the reliability of the same. Above all, solutions should reduce incentives for those parts of the business world as it was in the past that always looked and saw opportunities to creatively interpret regulations, rather than creatively seek profit in the market. Unfortunately, it was a practice in the past, and now there will be no more opportunities, but it will use these resources offered by this law. We can look for solutions that are such or such, to point out that the Review Law introduces even more obligations, but this bill is another reason for the compromise between respecting all European directives, especially the eighth, which is why the law has been partially adopted and the possibility for us to retain some specificities that we can benefit from encouraging our businesses until the conclusion of negotiations with the EU. Someone may not like the Eighth Directive, but there are many good sides to join the EU. We certainly do not like some of this, and it is up to us to go towards European integration and introduce what will be part of our legal system and in six or seven years, to see in this process how our society will be most comfortable. At the same time, when considering dynamics, we must bear in mind that some solutions are very easy to accept. While it takes time for institutions to develop, although it may seem that some institutions are unnecessary, expensive or bureaucratic, and that we should wait as long as we can, I don't think so. Why? Because the development of the institutions provided for by this law takes time. They don't come in full force when we push a button here and the president signs the law. Why am I saying this takes time? Because it's a long process. If we want the costs we're sure to have on the long term to be exceeded by the benefits, then it's better to start applying them earlier. You shouldn't wait until the last minute, as we've had in practice so far. Same thing with internal audit. Perhaps in Serbia, which today is a land economy, in which ownership and management are often the same even in medium and large enterprises, internal audits all seem to be a major imposition. However, it is time that will change Serbia and will be more and more companies that will have an interest in doing so without external pressure. Many companies who did not realize how difficult the divorce from ownership was had deep regrets, which did not have a good internal control system. This law lays the basis for an internal audit institution, and internal audit is the right address of external audit and everything needs to be watched in that light. The law deals much more with key issues that create a professional profession for business ethics, honesty and trust. The audit is not a cost to pay. It is an institution that creates trust in a single society, and trust reduces the costs of transactions more than 100 decrees, orders, apparitions or laws. The audit costs but brings benefits that are not immediately tangible, and later these audit reports are taken for granted. This law gives us a solution in another area that is considered problematic, at least that's how it's heard from individual MP groups, who have so often driven businessmen and the business world in general, that when I mention the revision of everyone, I have taken an example of Enron and Arthur Andersen. It's common knowledge to colleagues of economists. This law much better defines who controls the final controllers, when we talk about this surveillance, or how they make their activities visible. We want Serbia to be a country in which, as Arthur Anderson has done in time, one of the companies in the world's major five-year review is losing credibility and the possibility of a repeat failure. Each of us would like the trust, honesty, ethics and honor of all participants to accept as principles and that there is no need for costs and control, but the world is not like that, and all these principles have become dominant in a number of countries just because they were followed by just the strong institutions of independent control. If it's parallel day today, I'll make one. The audit is the same as the cost of defending the country. The army brings us in peace not obvious benefits, but only expenses, even great ones. Does this mean that we should disband the army and that our freedom depends on the goodwill of others? Of course not. It's similar in the peacetime business battlefield. Human nature is what it is. But to be perfectly honest, this bill practically reduces the number of audit bounds. I don't want to go into the details of this law, since the bill promoter explained it very closely. This is about the meaning of the law itself and what context it exists in. I'm going to move to the factoring law, which I think may be the most important in this set of laws, although factoring itself is not what accounting and auditing is, but this is the first law that governs this area in a way similar to that, so we're going back, in developed countries. For the first time through a single set of regulations, the factoring law regulates the concept and subject matter, which are participants in factoring, conditions and method of performing factoring, type of factoring, rights and obligations of factoring participants, factoring contract and factoring supervision. Although the purchase of claims is in principle regulated by the Law on Bond Relations, the factoring law is necessary, at least we consider it necessary. I think we should all agree on that. It is necessary because the development of the economy and financial markets in recent years has brought new forms of business relations, in which economic operators enter, so that the Bond Relations Act has proved inadequate and has in practice caused a certain degree of legal uncertainty and thus less efficiency. Factoring has been present in Serbia since 2005, and in the last three years an increased demand for factoring has been recorded, so the total traffic of factoring markets during 2012, amounted to 900m euros, which is a sixfold amount compared to 2006 when we started, when it was 150m euros. Hence, the need for this area to be regulated by law, although in a conversation with many bankers who were against it, that there is no need, I think we will see the benefits of this law. The existence of a factoring law represents a higher degree and authority than a factoring contract, on which the current business of all economic operators rests and will allow for a higher degree of safety of all participants. Factoring is a port of rescue for small and medium-sized enterprises that have a difficult access to external funding due to low credit or inadequate credit security funds. The key advantage of the sale of the claim is that the company has the opportunity to get to trade funds faster and to continue to place it, because factor services cost much less than the financing of customers by the bank. It is important here to note that the company releases the resources used to collect claims and that there is no need to employ resources to draw credit for the financing of customers, unlike the credit where the credit decision is based on the credit and the collateral that the company owns and which it can provide, which is a dwindling circumstance today. When factoring the quality of the claim is ahead of the quality of the collateral. Bonity is not irrelevant, but it has secondary significance in factoring. In the world of Serbia's strategic definition of reducing the external trade deficit, factoring either one-factor or two-factory, it is important for exporters and to enable them to take these charging risks, thus increasing competitiveness and export potential on the international market, and to stop the engagement of the Republic of Serbia's budgets for this purpose. The exporter can charge exports in a shorter period of time, so our companies that expand to the market's ino without putting their liquidity into question. It doesn't take much wisdom to realize that this is systemically important, not only that exporters receive funds, but also their suppliers in the country. The law predicts that factoring can be with and right regression. In the factoring with the right of regression, the factor is authorised to contact the credentials for the amount not charged unless they fully collect the claim. The factoring with the right to regress leaves the possibility of more easily reducing relatively problematic claims and sharing risks in the way those participants agree. The law also provides for reverse factoring, which opens up the possibility of factors entering the business with debtors, which completes the factoring market. The simplest thing is, for an economy most often described by word indifference, and very often there are those who won't pay because they can, and could before, factoring as a real possibility is salvation. If he had come much earlier, we wouldn't have a lot of destroyed small and medium-sized enterprises that some big ones didn't pay and credited with zero interest. Little ones who can't fight the big ones have the ability to use a factor and analyze their claims when they estimate it suits them. Like I said, they don't have to use those expensive mechanisms and time-consuming mechanisms. Factors are those that will allow small ones to have real power to come to their claims, and the specialisation and knowledge of the factors is what will eventually lead to the low charge costs, i.e. the possibility of handing over claim factors being treated as a credible threat to those who, without the permission of their creditors, would finance other people's capital on a fixed deadline and with interest zero. That was a lot. This law will stop this practice. Factoring is an excellent market mechanism that will solve many problems in a way that is elegant, cost-effective and simple. When it comes to the wishes of our parliamentary group, I can freely say that the wish of our parliamentary group is that in practice we have as many solutions as possible that are sound, self-sustaining and deeply just. Therefore, our parliamentary group gives clear support to these laws that bring Serbia closer to the standards that exist in the EU in the developed world, which make Serbia a well-defined society in which the rights and obligations of all are clearly defined and where common sense and efficiency are the basic principles on which the economy is founded. This set of laws explicitly helps and plans public finances, as we will have a better framework for budgetary projections and more responsibility in the public sector. We have always come from the desire to have a responsible society around the consensus, whether in opposition, whether we are a position and did not run away from a solution that defacto public affairs makes us more complex, and the benefits that many, without any evidence, attribute to our MP group and to the people we have called lookless or difficult. We have always been of the opinion that the public position is the highlight of someone's career, not because of money, but because of their role and reputation, and these laws make it much more difficult for anyone to violate the reputation of a public function he performs, and we consider it to be a true responsibility, not to resort to pathetic and flatulence of any type. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20724	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20725	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, Mrs Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly present the opinion of the SVM parliamentary group on these laws that are before us. Since some criticisms have already been made, unfortunately, and some questions have been answered, I will be in a sense shorter than I thought. Certainly, some MPs said that 15 years ago, financial reports were drawn up with high quality, and at that time the Accounting Act and the Audit Act were special two laws, as we now want to separate this existing law into two parts. The difference between that time and the present time is very important. In my practice, I experienced it, that at that time rigorous control was run by an institution, which was very well organized in the territory of our country, and it was called SDK. In addition, financial reports were drawn up by professional accountants. These laws were merged in 2001 and 2002 and a new law was passed and we tried to harmonise this financial report with European standards, with the implementation of international accounting standards. Due to some circumstances at the time, those years, unfortunately these financial reports were composed of ad hoc -- as who manages in such a way. From 2002 to 2006, we had laws that improved this theory, or the territory of financial reporting, and we came to the fact that we separated the profession into a professional or authorized accountant and an authorised auditor. After 2006 until today, our financial experts had seven years to study this trade, how they should make financial reports, to be in line with international accounting standards. Unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that we will reunite these two laws. Maybe it's some kind of nostalgia for old times' sake. I think if we get to that level of control, like it was before, at the time the SDK was working, then we'll have really good effects. In the draft accounting law, we see that economic operators are divided into several categories. With the existing law, international accounting standards have been applied at all levels of our business entities. But with this law, only large economic operators are forced to do these reports. Small and medium-sized enterprises, according to the law, can but do not have to do these reports. Micro and small businesses shouldn't apply these standards at all. Unfortunately, it turns out if we look at economic operators, 90% of our business entities will not use international accounting standards but will use some of our new rules that will be passed. We believe that a professional accountant is completely excluded as a carrier, the basic holder of the quality of the financial report. We think that in this way this profession will fall to the level of the records and we think it's not very good, because professional people will go to the gray economy to work, as it has been, and their knowledge will be used in the gray economy. Unfortunately, for the draft audit law, we think it may not be true, but we think it imposes new charges on our new business entities, since about 400 or 500 medium-sized legal entities will have to endure these 50, if there are 50, audit houses. You've given the answer that it's not exactly like that, but we have that attitude. We said, and every MP is for the economy to improve or the economic environment of the economic operator. I think our businessmen have enough burden and we shouldn't put this extra burden on them to make audit reports. This report or these reports will cost, let it be 1,000 euros, but I think it's too low a price and it will be about 5,000 to 10,000 euros, which is a huge cost to them. Here I think of those companies that have a turnover of 4.4m euros and in our practice it is so that the management of these companies is the owners of these companies, which control financial reports or financial flow, the entire financial flow of these companies. These reports and audits are done to report to the directors or the management of the financing of these companies. We think it's such an imposition that businessmen shouldn't bear. As some have already said, we need to bring in some new code frame, and then we should train people and businesses and people in tax administrations, and we should definitely apply some new software. Those are some extra costs we don't think they should be. Sure, we'll have new jobs in tax administrations. These are some new costs that make us think that this law, or these laws, because we separate one law that is a common law on audit and accounting into two laws, will, unfortunately, not essentially bring a better situation than we have at the moment. That is why our SVM parliamentary group will not vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20726	MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that we have one set of laws at this session that touches the economic problem and the fact is that the situation in the Serbian economy and the Serbian economy is not enviable. The fact that we've had budget rebalance suggests that it's necessary to start with system laws. It is very good that after a few days of budget rebalancing, we are going with these three system laws which, in essence, should enable increased discipline when it comes to audits and accounting, because what we need through is because we have a lot of problems in the income side, and in some ways these laws reduce unfair competition. On the other hand, with the help of the factoring law, we have the opportunity to provide businesses with another source of funding which, especially for those serious economic operators that have serious exports, can also be significant. Since the SNS accounting law has been subject to 10 amendments in order to fix or to allow one database to be created that would be in the interest of all businessmen, I would like to say a few words about the factoring law. So, given the fact that the growing number of loans that arise are problematic, that banks naturally respond to the stricter conditions of accreditation, or to higher interest, I think this law is very important and that this law should be supported by all MPs in the National Assembly and that at this point we may not be fully aware of all the potentials this law provides, but that we will soon recognise all the qualities of this law and that businesses will fully exploit the potential of this law in the coming period. What is essentially the objective of this law is, in any case, to speed up financial business, as another financial instrument appears that makes it easier for the market to reach financial resources, to support competitiveness on the financial market, will indirectly reduce the cost of lending, the cost of interest on the banks itself to compete, and in any case, it will allow faster turnover of capital in businesses, so that this is what is positive, when it comes to speeding up financial flows. In any case, the increase in liquidity is of exceptional importance today, given the situation in the economy, in great indifference, to the decline in economic activity, but also to the fact that we have positive trends, when it comes to industrial production, that we have positive trends in exports, and in this way, I believe that we will be able to complement these positive trends and allow these positive trends to continue in the coming period. What I'd like to count as good institutes as some institutes of law, it's a ban on multiple contracts for one contract, for one claim. The fact is that we're going to have a factoring register, which is very good, in the sense that it knows exactly who's in the situation of doing this job, that it's done, I'd say very good supervision that goes from the Ministry of Finance, through the foreign currency inspectorate, the Directorate for the Prevention of Made Money, and I personally don't recognize the problem in this founding capital that's been given in the law by some 350,000 euros, to which one number of my colleagues made a comment. I think that the factoring market is quite modest, and yet this is a modest step, and since this is about buying, rather than borrowing, I think that the risks are much smaller and there is no need to go into some major founding roles. So, generally for businessmen, it's of paramount importance that in the future they won't have to mortgage when they get these funds and that this contract between businesses and factors does not enter into a credit bureau which does not reduce their creditworthiness. So factoring as an instrument is extremely important and extremely important. In the end, they have recognized business so far, because we have already had a few years, despite the fact that we do not have a clear legal regulation on its application in practice, it seems to me since 2005, so it may have been high time for this law to be passed in the Assembly. As far as the audit law is concerned, he would agree completely with all my colleagues who have discussed it a lot. We, when it comes to audits, have a lot of problems, a lot of problems when it comes to internal audit. As far as DRI is concerned, I think we're all satisfied on that side, because that institution is doing its job better and we have more and more quality reports year after year. But when it comes to internal audit, we had a lot of problems, first of all, some fictitious audit without adequate control and no responsibility for those who made up those audits. With one good part, all these problems were accumulated through the privatisation process, and one good part and the privatisation process itself was unsuccessful because of the current Law, which did not properly treat the audit problems. I would say that in law we have clear institutes and who has the obligation, which is subject to review, how audits are carried out, the content of the audit, the public publishing. I think it's very important. As far as costs are concerned, the mere fact that the obligation for some 1,300 companies on the Ministry's account has been reduced, i.e. that this law does not have an obligation, i think, in some ways, reduces the costs compared to what we had so far. I also agree with those colleagues who have said that there are some costs that must be paid, if we want a clear, transparent economic system, reliable, in which both businessmen and foreign and domestic investors have confidence, quite certainly, the public, transparency, financial reports must be impeccable and regardless of the financial costs, of course, taking into account and, if possible, being as small as possible, but at no cost of quality, we cannot go to a reduction in the quality of the accounting audit in any subsequent period. Especially if we are approaching the European Union, especially if we are going towards the respect of all those directives, which is something that we are expected to do from the autumn, and I am in front of the Serbian Progressive Party, of course, and we will advocate as a party that in this sense all these procedures and all those rules are fully respected. Finally, I would say when it comes to accounting law, that even in this law, unlike some opposition colleagues, I recognise a smaller obligation for a large number of enterprises, because when it comes to an international accounting standard that is really large, it also requires serious financial resources. We have a significantly smaller number of enterprises that are subject to this obligation under this new law, so for some 110,000 small businesses, we have only a balance sheet and a balance of success as a commitment which, you will admit, significantly reduces costs and significantly supports a better business environment, if you will generally, when it comes to Serbia's economy. So, we have the application of international accounting standards for just about 1,400 companies, which is also one quality, and I believe that the government measured it the right way, and that this is a number of companies that have had to respect this procedure, because this is also important because of the credibility of the economy and financial country, and because of the possibility that foreign investors look at the real and information of our businesses and eventually opt for some more serious investment in us. So, simplification is obvious, because if you have a fact that on some 2,300 sides for individual companies, that obligation has fallen to only some 250 pages of the report, it is clear that this law is going towards more efficient and quality accounting and I think there is no dilemma on that side and that the Serbian Progressive Party will support this law in the voting day. What the Serbian Progressive Party insisted on was the amendments I mentioned at the beginning of its presentation, referring to the delivery of financial reports. It seems to us that it is necessary for a single database to be established in Serbia which would be comprehensive and that the government may not have properly looked at the need to still be the National Bank of Serbia, and instead of the Agency for Business Registers, which primarily registers some status, contractual obligations, registers economic operators, registers financial reports, that the National Bank is in a position to control these reports and, in addition to that quality, to the Agency for Business Registers, we also have a reduction of the risk on the financial market and the capital market, because nevertheless, the National Bank is an institution that is independent, which has maximum credibility and which would thus be able to unite and create one database that would be so respectable for all businessmen and all investors, whether domestic or foreign. I think centralization would help the People's Bank and develop some of the jobs that touch the ratings. In the assessment of the risk of business, I think we could have significantly more advanced work by the National Bank of Serbia itself in order to have relevant data. We have tried to supplement this law with these ten amendments, which we have submitted, and we will also seek understanding with fellow MPs from the government and from the opposition. We hope that they too will recognise one quality in these amendments, one good intention to modernise our economy, draw close to some standards that already exist in European countries, and that we will get a understanding of coalition partners, first of all, of the opposition fellows for these amendments, and that in the Voting Day you will support these amendments for the sake of a better quality accounting and obtaining a comprehensive database under one institution, which is undoubtedly credible, reliable and independent, and which is very important when financial reports are at stake and what we haven't had in many years, I would say in decades, which are behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20728	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20729	Dear Minister Kalanovic, honourable Vice-President, honourable MPs, I would like to begin by apologizing for coming to this meeting later on because of my work obligations and I was unable to hear the opening statement given by the minister. I was only able to read the stenographic notes, but I was unable to read, given the shortness of time, all the discussions of my distinguished colleagues who were authorized representatives. I'm sorry if I'm going to ask any questions that have already been answered or if I repeat myself in some part. The three draft laws that are now in front of MPs, the Accounting, Audit, factoring law, are three very important laws for creating a business environment in Serbia. In themselves, they are a better way of regulating the area than they have ever been. In the coming, since other colleagues mentioned, once upon a time, what kind of financial reporting control system we had for Novi Sad, one former New Sad financial director, now retired, when asked what we were discussing, said – the damage was to abolish the SDK, and in the meantime nothing was done in that financial business control, which would adequately replace it, although in some countries in the environment, or former republics, that part of the service was somehow preserved by some functions that were important in order for financial operations to be properly demonstrated and properly controlled. When we talk about the accounting law, only its separation from the matter of the audit, I must say, simplifies its monitoring, i.e. it is much easier to monitor the area of accounting than the area of audit. I would point only to a few things that seem to be good and some remarks and warnings, more for sublegal acts, in which I believe that it should form sublegal acts so that, what we wanted to be good, we did a bear service to certain economic operators. In this law, companies are divided or singled out companies into micro from a group of small enterprises. If we don't talk about the amount and number of pages now, I certainly don't think that either 2500 or 250 pages for a micro-enterprise, a company that employs 10 workers with low traffic, and especially when we know that these micro-enterprises are often family and most often employ two or three workers, then there is a need to simplify or maintain, because small businesses have so far had a balance of success, balance sheet and business annex. The issue remains open now – how will the Ministry of Finance, by its rules, in what way and how will it look in relation to these reports on the balance sheet of success, the balance sheet and the annex, what will this content be? Why do I point this out, regardless of how important it is to simplify the business and show the financial results of the micro-enterprise? For a simple reason, when international financial reports for small and medium-sized legal persons are not applied and in a situation where we show differently from the rest of Europe, will this reduce their ability to create partnerships, find ino-partners in certain businesses, and how much such reporting will make it easier for them to approach loans, some financial resources on the market? So it wouldn't be inevitable after that, that what we've simplified for them in this way, to bring them into serious trouble in a given situation, or to make additional reports to explain some of their positions. I think that rule should be kept in mind, that they will be competitive according to this financial report. On the other hand, I think there are some inaccuracies in this law that I would like, if I could, today. If not, it'll be one of the first questions where we'll look for interpretation. This is in the definition of non-profit or non-profit companies. These inconceivable organizations, we can see they're getting their final plan back. They are defined here as associations, as borrowings, foundations, etc. So, the ones that were founded by partly getting funds from the budget, and they're partly funded from membership fees. From this part, given that they are divided even in the final framework, the issue remains one category which is not covered here and which is on the edge between this non-profit piece and this part that is regulated by the National Bank of Serbia, where the control and control framework is carried out by the National Bank of Serbia at the very end, and it is about other financial institutions. It is about funds established at the level of the province and local self-government, which are not budget funds. They're legal faces. We know that the Republic Development Fund, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, is placed in another financial practical institution and implements the continental framework for banks, but the other funds have so far implemented a final framework for legal persons who have been as well as for the economy. Now it is unclear whether they will fall under this category of non-profits, with another fixed framework. That's very important, because it's not just a continuum plan and a contiguous framework. This is very important because all the financial institutions that have the control of the NBS, have a final framework for banks and financial institutions, have the control of the NBS, even monthly reporting, which is practically out of insufficiently clear determination of this category, practically very quickly, by applying this law, these institutions can also come into financial breach. What I believe should continue to be regulated in this, or what is practically left, if it is written somewhere, I may not have noticed, but with great attention I have analysed the law, there is a question that has caused a lot of problems, which is – who gives binding interpretations in the application of international and financial standards, i.e. international and financial standards in Serbia. So, authentic interpretation, given that we had in practice different interpretations of the professional public and one of the big questions was the course of foreign exchange advances received and given, as an example, not to burden other examples, that we know exactly where to address authentic interpretations, and that's something that should be defined, because we don't seem to be defined. Then, the large group of legal entities is now practically excluded from the revision, as it is a different division of legal entities. A smaller group or a smaller number of legal entities have audits. That's one story. On the other hand, this law has completely left licensing in the field of bookkeeping. That's one real question. I read a careful explanation, and I could agree and sign that argument, that there was a need to simplify it, that the more people do this job, and I could agree with that, but I couldn't agree that this would be achieved in the quality of financial reporting. She was also responsible for the responsible persons, the management. It was very important that the quality of the house we choose or the persons we choose, given that the accountants were individually licensed, is whether we know that they have the proper certification, because this meant that they are in the association and that they have a constant education. This way, there's one possibility, and I know that it was an objection from a public debate, there's a possibility that in this part, by potentizing the responsibility of the management staff, on the one hand by non-licence, by not selecting in this area, there's a possibility that in this business, very responsible, we get less responsibility than we want. I would still point out in this section of the law that keeping electronic documents, as regulated in Article 24, in the rule, should also keep electronic documents defined, since we have been waiting very long for the law on archiving. We've been waiting for this new law on archiving for a long time. I have no information, maybe there's information in the government, when he'll be. In this law we actually expect archiving according to new technical options, using all the internet etc., and in fact we do not have a proper regulation that monitors archiving. In this area it's very important to archive, it's very important to keep documentation. Archive and bookkeeping is especially important, and it is vital that this issue be resolved. I suggest that you have an understanding of that and that in that rule, in which I see the deadline that is given, if that deadline will be respected, and I'm actually saying, the new law on archiving still seems too far away, and it creates a big problem for us in practice. When we talk about the Revision Act, I would certainly point out that it's very good that the audit houses got control, I find that extremely important. I think every job that's done, especially when it comes to such large numbers, should have proper control. We have experience in various ways, without mentioning one house or having to blame someone in particular, but we have experience in practice that the reports were not always the most correct, that we have two reports, two audit houses in the same year and audit houses with the highest grades and qualifications, that they are quite different and that they are so different that they dramatically show financial situations. It's something that should be prevented anyway. I have seen the amendment of the Committee, and it is a good amendment, because it does not respect the directive, and it is important who manages the audit houses, someone who is the founder. I think it's more correct to apply it, and now the other thing is whether or not we wanted the property, like some other activities, to be connected to authorized and licensed auditors. In this part, given that public undertakings are necessarily subject to external, commercial, independent audit, at the same time subject to state audit. In a conversation with state auditors, it has shown that it might be good to in some way, regardless of what two separate types of audits are, that it should also be good to make up the link between public undertakings having both independent and state audits, whether this would be by delivering audit reports to the State Auditor, whether the State Auditor could, when assessing that the audit report is incorrect. Especially since we've had five years so far that one audit house could have audited us, we're now getting up to seven years and it's a good thing we haven't made a date for 12 years. For seven years, we may be left with the same authorised auditor leading our team. Practically, you lose that distance, sometimes the distance of objectivity, sometimes not just from evil intent and concealment, but simply lose the distance you need when you work with someone for a long time. It may give the State Auditor some opportunity to point out the incorrectness of these reports, which would again have an impact on the assessment of the work of the auditors. I only say that when it comes to public enterprises, or those controlled by the state auditor. As far as the factoring law is concerned, I think it's a good thing it's solved. From reading, I think there are enough steps to apply it. He is an institute that we have known for a very long time and is applied in Serbia, but certainly in an insufficient number of cases, for the simple reason that he has not been regulated until the end, while at the same time because there have been very incorrect moves in which factoring users have not been well protected. It is good that in this area it seems more transparent and the contracts are recorded as well as in many other areas, when I am talking about it, when we talk about transparency and the contribution of the Agency for the Register in that part of transparency and records, then I ask – is it not considered desirable to be in full transparency for all of us who are using legal persons' financial reports, would it not be better and more transparent and simpler to be on the Agency's website, which I think is always updated, well organised and I think there is potential, to publish full financial reports rather than just perform themselves? Because it's only for those who are audited. So now for a large number we're going to get copies from the report, and that doesn't give us about clients full information. On the other hand, we force those we work with to keep multiplying their reports and unnecessarily burdening them in business relations when they apply for any means.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20730	Thank you. Minister Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20731	Dear People's MPs, I thank you for a very constructive discussion. With a lot of praise for these laws, we have a series of questions that are related to part of the interpretation, part of the recommendations on implementation. The Ministry of Finance and Business would be grateful to submit your proposal in writing, because part of your questions would be published on your site as a guideline to those who will implement the laws in the coming period, because these things are already envisaged and defined to a good extent by law and sublaw. When we talk about authorised accountants, it seems to me that there was a lot of confusion about whether or not we are going to have auditors at any cost today who are licensed, who have a recommendation from the Union of Accountants? No, they are completely equal to everyone else, but if you have read the criminal provisions and collective responsibility, it is clear to you that the accountant and how he will account for both his responsibility and his education in the coming period. Because they're responsible persons, same as directors and supervisory committees. There are a number of issues related to reports that will be published throughout the next period on the Agency for Business Registers website and a number of interpretations about where funds are today, rural, local? I've just been signaled by professional services that they are classified as legal entities that, in accordance with special regulations, apply the provisions of this law. There will probably be many more concerns with the businessmen, it is about new laws, about system laws, which will address you as their legitimate representatives in parliament, and we would be very grateful to you for delivering these issues, so that we can publish the interpretations of the law on the site, which would help further their business and eventually select audit houses or independent auditors, when it comes to reviewing them. I thank you for today's discussion that has shown that we can work together as a ruling majority and as an opposition to improving those laws that are truly important to our economy, because we are all very aware that the economy needs both support and help today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20732	Thank you. The word is Teodora Vlahovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20733	Thank you. I just want to be specific. It is undeniable that these funds fall under this law. This law is exempt from the church, when it does not bother, and nothing else, the cobwebs and those who do not run the double accounting. But this isn't the case. That's clear. It is not clear in which category, will it be as inconceivable, in other legal entities, or will it be, given that some of them lend loans, some give guarantees, etc., will be in the part of where financial organisations are? There's that misunderstanding. So between the two categories, because it's actually a fundamental issue in running business. It's not just about the plan. I agree, if that is such a narrowly specialized question, I will forward the question, as soon as the law is passed, to the Ministry of Finance and ask for appropriate interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20734	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours, until the completion of a joint principled search on the proposals of the law in question. 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. I'm setting a break. We continue work at 3:15 p.m. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20736	I thank the esteemed chairman, respected minister, colleagues, colleagues and citizens, today I will allow myself to talk only about the proposal for a factoring law. It's one of the laws that today, I would say, has the support of all parliamentary groups in this assembly. Factoring as a sales claim, and what I'm going to allow myself to talk about is, the fact that there are still insufficient numbers of entrepreneurs and economic operators who know and use enough of this matter. Otherwise, the definition of factoring as a financial service for the purchase of the existing unaccompanied or short-term cash claims resulting from a contract for the sale of goods or the provision of services in the country or abroad. When we talk about factoring I can't not mention the moment I first entered the work of the state administration, it was in 2006, and I come from the municipality of Zitiste, which is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities. At that time, like today, I had a single goal, and the goal was to create as many jobs as possible, simplify as many procedures and allow as many citizens as possible to live a decent life. When we talk about factoring as a possibility of early collection of claims or a vision of security that someone will collect their claims, it is certainly something that every businessman cares about in Serbia, whether he will just be able to collect his claims. What I would point out as positive is exactly the consistency of the URS, because a year ago, a little more, we promised a few things and now I can say that I am pleased to have met them. We met and created opportunities for the entrepreneurs to pay VAT only when the goods were charged, to raise the price for the compulsory entry of small and medium-sized enterprises into the VAT system, to adopt the Law on the deadlines for the settlement of monetary transactions, that was something that my businessmen very often complained about. We've lifted over 130 parafiscal duties. They've adopted a country penalty if they're late for VAT returns. The factoring law as a continuation of positive steps in terms of creating as favourable conditions for the operation of the economy as possible. That's what I think we have a lot of unity in the U.S., and that's something that I think we should all advocate in Parliament and what we should have a full consensus about. That's why I think the U.S.S. deserves a lot of trust from businessmen just because we've taken a series of steps that our ministers have received recognitions of how abroad they are so recognized in the state to do good things. Factoring as a possibility of easy obtaining money and factoring that creates conditions for effective financing of business without hiring additional bank loans and without administrative procedures, is sufficient claims and credits of the firm. That's what the economy needs today. What we expect when we pass this law is to increase liquidity, insolvency of business entities, increase domestic and foreign investments, increase the competitiveness of business entities, increase availability of funding sources, reduce the debt of business entities and, of course, increase employment and public revenues in the long term. Of course, the role of politics is to create an ambience, define frameworks for business, but also strengthen legal certainty. At a time of financial crisis, there has been an increased demand for factoring, although it has been present in Serbia for eight years, in some countries not even since 1992. The passing of this law is a practical need to introduce something that exists under one legal roof. Of course, this probably did not even lead to its full application, i.e. to the full application of factoring in this country because we did not have a clear legal framework, although already, as I said, provided by certain foreign and domestic factoring companies. If I have good information about eight banks in Serbia, as well as the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. According to some unofficial data, the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance has about 5,000 invoices annually. Domestic and foreign companies about 30,000 invoices. What is interesting is that in 2009 there was a quadruple of traffic compared to the year 2007 when we talk about factoring and that is something that records constant growth. A clear definition of the conditions for performing the factoring is something that is part of this law. Basic capital where I don't personally think it's too small, because if we have a tendency to circle and rotate, which is one of the preconditions for the development of the economy, I think we should give this solution a chance. Also, approval and conditions for performing factoring, supervision of factoring operations, introduction of factoring registers, records issued and withdrawn approvals, which is certainly one of the preconditions for transparent work, but also for raising people's confidence to use an instrument such as factoring, which clients do factoring agencies. Types of factoring, domestic and international, one-factor and two-factory, with and without regress, all of this is defined by this law and what I would like to praise, and I have exchanged this with my colleagues in the break, is the fact that this law has quite detailedly worked out everything that needs to be the subject of factoring itself, and even the factoring contract, what this contract contains, which are the mandatory elements, the ban on closing of multiple contracts that have the same claim, rights, obligations and responsibilities, from what a factor should do through what the one who sells all claims should do. It's been defined to exercise supervision and criminal provisions. Although this law leads to increased legal certainty in the business of the parties, this is certainly something that is necessary for every domestic and foreign investor, the right to security. If the adoption of this law contributes to a stable business and a safer financial future for businesses, which is necessary in the conditions of growing competition, difficult conditions of rejuvenation and a global economic crisis that has not visited us, then there is no reason why this law does not get my full support. If this law will lead to the preservation of a small, medium-sized company, to preserve jobs and create opportunities to strengthen our economy and thus employ more people, this law has my full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20737	National MP Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20738	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you spoke in an inaugural statement about how you feel about these laws that are on the agenda today. Among other things, you also said that the laws are in line with individual EU directives, that it is good that you introduce micro-enterprises as newspapers in the accounting law, and you paid little attention to the public debate, saying that the public debate under these laws was a debt. In the light of the law, you say that the public debate was on 12 March 2013, that you accepted certain objections and you did not accept certain objections by independent institutions. This is about the objection of individual accounting associations, audit firms as well as representatives of companies relating to the introduction of certificates to business book-keeping persons. As Government, you felt that such an objection was not established. Madam Minister, you've kind of fooled the public. After this public debate and after everyone had the right and opportunity to say what they thought about the bill, you changed some members of the law after a public debate was held. So the Chamber of Authorised Auditors who formed a task force to give us an opinion and gave us an opinion before 12 March afterwards could not be made known about certain members of the audit law because you literally planted it after a public debate. Then when you explain some law, it was a public debate, but after a public debate, we introduced, changed, added new members who were not at a public debate, and only then can you say that it was a public debate, this way for us in LDP we can freely say that the public debate was not. You've been talking about what specific objections are, and why don't we give them to certain laws? In Article 7. The Audit Act, you are introducing a new practice for the Ministry of Finance to issue licences to authorised auditors. It's what the Chamber's been doing so far. What's the Treasury supposed to do about it now? We think it's a bad solution, that they're going to be late for licensing and that it's additional costs because the finance ministry, first of all, needs to introduce a new system and train new staff at the ministry to issue licences. For us in LDP, that is not an acceptable solution. Also, Article 25. The audit law, you define the contract and the mandatory elements of the audit contract that close the audit company with its clients. Those mandatory elements require audit companies to predetermine the time it takes for each member of the team to be audited. We believe that this solution, first of all, is impractical because it is extremely difficult to calculate exactly what time it is necessary for each individual member to do the tasks of the need to draw up an audit report. What will happen to the minister, when a single member of the review team gets sick, gets the flu, means the audit house will have to annex the contract with its client for changing team members. We therefore believe that it is enough that the contract contains the elements how many days it takes to revise, how many members count the team, and not the details and especially for each member of the team, because you will agree that it is absolutely unacceptable, if someone gets sick that you should do an annex contract. The most drastic and the worst thing is a member of the 21st. The law on audits, however much you wish to justify to this Article 21 that you are introducing a new practice that all legal persons whose income is greater than 4.4m euros are subject to audit, that you are making certain savings, we do not think so. It's true that the audit report costs, but it's much less a shame to do an audit report than not to do it. In this way, we believe that regardless of the audit profession has a significant place in the EU financial system, you simply stop such measures from developing an audit profession in our country, and its lagging behind for EU members would be further increased. We believe that such changes would stop the employment and training of new workers in the audit companies or that they would produce exactly the opposite effect and lead to the dismissal of hundreds of workers. The audit carried out in accordance with international audit standards contributes to raising the level of financial discipline, and you said that you advocated financial discipline and significantly facilitates the implementation of international accounts, assessments and standards and international standards of financial reporting. That is why we believe that it is not in our country's interest to reduce the number of audit commitments through an increase in the criteria but that interest is in fact the opposite and that it is necessary to go to the expansion of the audit base. Now I'm going to say an example of why we think so. Regardless of the fact that this RTB Bor law will also be covered by the revision process, and it was also covered now, I just want to show you how harmful it is that you increased the amount to 4.4m euros as an obligation to carry out the audit instead of for example, to make it 2.5m. In the Accounting Act in Article 5. The law says that all legal entities and entrepreneurs must respect the assembly of financial reports in accordance with the law, now on accounting, sometimes on accounting and audit. What's going on with those who don't respect it? What sanctions do such firms suffer? That's exactly what I'm going to ask you about RTB Bor. RTB Bor is subject to review and subject to the fact that all its reports must be carried out in accordance with the Accounting Act and so far the Accounting and Audit Act. If independent auditors hold their opinion from the financial report and parent society for years back in 2009, then 2010, then in 2011. consolidated and dependent societies, who is taking measures why the audit reports are not respected? It's out of the law. You have in law defined that all reports should go to the Agency's website, so what if they are on the site, if the RTB Bor auditor says – we do not express our opinion that the financial reports show the objective and true financial position of the company on 31 December 2011, as a result of business and cash flows for the year ending that day, because the financial reports do not comply with the accounting regulations of the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean? This means that RTB Bor does not respect the Accounting Act, does not respect international standards. The auditor also says that the reports were not based on international financial reporting standards, that no international accounting standards, accounting and audit laws were applied. It also says that the Accounting Regulation is an internal act adopted in 1998 and that it is subsequently not in line with the applicable accounting and audit regulations. Now I have to ask you, is RTB CEO Bor, Blagoje Spaskovski, living in 1998 and whether he knows this is 2013. If this parliament and the government are constantly giving guarantees to RTB Bor, can the RTB Bor at least respect the country's regulations. What's going on with this opinion? Nothing. The auditor says this - we have carried out a review of the financial reports of the society for the previous period on which we abstained from thinking. The company did not act on the expressed reserves and corrected significant material errors and we cannot determine business. What is the benefit of being posted on the site? Not at all. Does RTB Bor have any consequences? There isn't. So what's the accounting and audit law for when nobody else is in control? At that point, you say, under Article 33 of Act 3 that all legal persons have to publish it on the site and that's fine. What's next? They announce that there are irregularities still no one at all. In these reports, the auditor for RTB Bor can clearly determine the following. That a consolidated report on changes in RTB Bor's capital has shown a loss above capital, in 2009 22 billion and 800 million, in 2010 22 billion 882 million, and in 2011 23 billion 683 million. Well, if someone has such a loss, do we need to control them? If the auditor writes that something's wrong who's still in control? So you haven't even introduced such elements into the new Accounting Act. The fact is that the auditor is that RTB Bor is an off-book owner of the RTB club. So RTB Bor, which is also seen in the 2011 audit report in that club RTB, which means in the restaurant, in the banquet hall, in the overnight rooms, invested 170 and a few million dinars. So, in something he didn't own and whose property wasn't registered in 2011. While in 2012, imagine wonders, past the urbanism department, giving a retroactive building permit. Where does that exist in this country? Every citizen has to get a location permit before performing his work. Is that a crime? At the same time, you release them from taxes and contributions, and they invest in banquet halls. So they're not investing 100 dinars but 173 million while this state, on the burden of citizens, is giving them other debts. For what? So Blagoje Spaskovski can sing there at the restaurant or order deer sterns. That's probably why we should invest in hunting this year. It is not only the minister, the auditor says -- according to a copy of the NIS open items, RTB owes two billion, and RTB shows 500 million in its report. Wait, where's that billion and a half? As it is possible that auditors years ago, three years back wrote that RTB Bor did not provide participation in the capital of the Institute of Copper Bor, the Fabrika light wire Bor in bankruptcy and equipment factories and parts of Bor in bankruptcy. So he's running all these three companies as his property, and they're completely independent, they have nothing to do with RTB. It's 600 million worth of property that RTB books as if it's theirs, though it's not. That shows he's got more property than he is. Also, it is shown that RTB Bor does not agree with the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Boring Bank, according to the London Club, for two and a half billion. According to the Paris club for 192 million and for interest, two and a half billion. The auditor says the commitments based on principal, interest and financial expenditure have been underestimated in this way, and the financial result is overestimated. Then what's the loss of RTB Bor? Just for interest, chief, it's about five and a half billion, what they've put on someone else's property, another 600 million. There's a loss of RTB Bor 23 billion or 33 billion. Then how are we looking for a strategic partner? There's a basic question next, an independent auditor was in control. The report on the control carried out is highlighted in accordance with the Agency's Law. No one else's doing anything. You didn't foresee this new Accounting Act, and that's basically our criticism. It's not just RTB, it's about other companies. So when an independent auditor draws attention, and the next year that firm does nothing about it, then another year goes by, and they still nothing, wait, does someone do a crime? Whether there are any responsibilities or there is no or no responsibility exclusively to private entrepreneurs, it will now be micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. These companies, even though RTB Bor isn't state-owned, nothing to anyone. I think people who need to comply with the law are the government, so our state in restructuring, these enterprises, where we all citizens because of such businesses, because of such a government, each year we give subsidies and every year we have a growing public debt of Serbia. They have to obey the law. What's the Treasury gonna do now? Is he going to do something about it? No, because Mr. Ronaldo's been changing addresses since 1998, since he's had the SPS rule after the URS, now the SNS is still choosing what he's going to eat. I don't want to talk about what RTB was doing. You know very well. You gave them over a billion and 400, through the Development Fund, for the PIO, and they got it. Do they pay any of that? The sulphuric acid factory and the reconstruction of the solvent according to the audit report should be completed on 1 November of this year. Is it gonna be over? They won't, because the papers have been suspended. Why? Because RTB started working without a building permit, or location. Who's responsible for that? It cannot be the responsible Canadian firm Projector, but the CEO of Blagoje Spaskovski, because the Law on Planning and Construction is quite clear. Whoever's going to work without a license is a felony. It's a 300m-euro investment. What are you doing as a state and as a government? Nothing. They're here to give credit and you know it very well. So, 130 million in 2010 with a grace period. That grace period is up. Who's gonna pay for that? On the one hand, the state gives a guarantee, and on the other hand Blagoja Spaskovski does what to his mind, circular flows, amphitheater, zoo and real RTB club? Is it normal, Mr. Minister, for someone to list 173 million in something that isn't his property, to subsequently get a building permit and make rooms for the lodging? Is that RTB's job?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20739	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. I apologize, Minister Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20740	Dear People's MPs were so much discussion that we could spend the whole day posituring around the steaks that Blagoje Spaskovski eats, but I want to go back to law. First of all, as far as the public debate is concerned, it seems to me that you haven't proposed laws in a very long time. What would be the point of a public debate if we were to deliver one text to a public debate and say – this is a written text, you can talk about what you want, from professional organisations, institutions, from the professional public, from the academic public, from the economy, from practice, we will not change any members because we consider it to be the best. The public debate right now has another essence of bringing good practice, well-intentioned proposals and initiatives into the members, some of which we add completely new ones, some of which we throw out with reasoned facts and propose a new text of the law. As you know, all the time public debates the law has been published on the site of the ministry that the law proposes, and everyone is welcome, proposals and initiatives that go towards improving the legal text. That is the answer to the first question why we amended the law we gave you, the Assembly, the MPs, presented it to the Assembly in relation to the original proposal. Well, great that it is, I'm always looking forward to a large number of members being changed in public debate, which means that a large number of people took part in law-making and adapted to life and practice. As far as the licensee is concerned, it is true that the ministry is issuing and withdrawing licences on a proposal from the chamber. The chambers are doing complete documentation and proposing to the ministry and the exam and proposing to the ministry auditors who will receive licences. As for the Treaty of Audit, it seems to me that you've read it wrong, if someone gets the flu to stop the revision. The Treaty of Audit in Article 25 absolutely does not speak of names personally, nor are you obliged to supply names. You are delivering the structure of an audit team with an indication of professional qualifications, members of the audit team and data on the planned number of hours for the audit, according to the members of the audit team, so there is no dilemma that if someone gets sick of the flu for three days, the audit agreement should be terminated. As for RTB Bor, I fully agree with you that the regulations must be the same for everyone and that the laws must be the same for everyone. If you remember, the party in whose leadership I am has come up with the idea that we are fully professionalising the work of public enterprises and in accordance with this, a law on the professionalisation of working companies with expert supervisory committees has been proposed and that we cannot happen to have any kind of discrepancies with the law and regulations by the management, and that no one is responsible. Today I find it popular that we are talking about abuses in public enterprises, believe me, it is one of the first and strategic objectives of this government, a comprehensive and sharp reform of public enterprises, because we have a large number of public enterprises, which, regardless of which they can be profitable, which can represent huge potential, including for the country's budget, are now operating on the edge of rentability or with great losses. You were here talking about the problems and the work of leadership, not the revision. As far as we're concerned, we will continue to advocate that auditors deliver impartial reports, and if the reports published by the auditors' houses on the work, on RTB's financial report "Bor", then it is a matter of supervisory board, management, and by this law and for the accountant, why does the financial report not correspond to reality? I'll bet those financial reports that make audit houses and auditors are transparent, that you can see them and see how much money is spent in the club, and how much in steaks, but the job of disrespecting the law is work, the subject of management and the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20741	Thank you. The word is Radmil Gerov, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20742	Dear Minister, I have not talked about leadership now, I have only talked about the audit reports of RTB Bor, which have been published. Every piece of information I've brought out is an audit report, where the auditor says they don't use standards and everything I've said, so I don't repeat myself. Now, when you say it's a matter of the Supervisory Board and you're going to stand up as a party for the extensive reform of public enterprises, then the question arises, since there is a Law on Public Enterprises here, why didn't the Government of the Republic of Serbia call a competition by July 1st for the selection of directors of all public enterprises? The law was passed last year, now that that law is to be applied, nothing to anyone. These are reforms, called the Governments of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying you wouldn't call yourself, but it's obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia didn't want to call competitions for the selection of directors of all public enterprises. As far as Article 25 is concerned, The audit agreement, that is, paragraphs 3 and 2 must contain the structure of the audit team, as well as data on the planned number of hours to carry out the audit by members of the audit team. What does that mean? What does the structure mean, who are these people? For this reason, we believe that when someone who gets sick is to be replaced by another, that in this way we interpret the law, that an annex of the contract should be made and that is why we consider it bad. As for the public debate, Minister, I completely understand and know what a public debate is and it is perfectly normal for you to change some members after a public debate, adopt something, not something. But it is not normal for you to insert some members of the law that were not the subject of a public debate after a public debate. Why didn't you ask the Association of Auditors, does it agree with the Ministry's licensing? That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20743	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20744	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Madam Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will put the accent in my presentation on accounting law and the law on audit. Given that the current Accounting and Audit Act was adopted as early as 2006 and that it is less in line with the EU's Fourth Directive, there is no need to stress in particular the need to adopt new laws that will regulate these areas. So far accounting and audit have been regulated by one law, and now this has been divided into two separate laws, accounting law and the law on audit, which was necessary because of the importance of these areas governed by the laws. The proposals of these laws when they appeared, caused a lot of controversy in the business world and a lot of different opinions. As regards the current regulation, the proposed laws introduce significant changes and one of the major changes provided for by this law concerns the introduction of a new category of legal entities, so-called "micro-legal persons", as well as a change in the criteria for the classification of legal persons. If you can establish peace, I'd like to continue. Under the draft law on the classification of legal persons, there are three criteria. The first criterion is the number of employees, income and value of commercial assets. In which category the legal person will be classified, it will depend on the fulfillment of two of the three conditions mentioned above. What will appear as a result of such a classification of legal entities is that the new category of legal entities, micro-legal persons, will form a percentage of the majority of the legal entities in Serbia, while the number of large, medium and small legal entities will fall considerably. In EU countries, attention is paid to micro-legislators and hence the need to introduce this category of legal entities, as much as anyone likes it or not. The criteria for the classification of legal entities provided for in this law are in line with the criteria set out in the EU's Fourth Directive. The draft accounting law also introduces new rules for drawing up financial reports, in line with the size and economic strength of the legal entity, to improve the quality of the financial reporting. More complex international standards of financial reporting will be required to apply large legal entities, parent societies and public societies. Medium and small legal persons will be required to apply international standards of financial reporting for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is a shortened version. This accounting standard is first introduced by this law and is based on the same framework as a more complex international standard of financial reporting. There was some controversy here that the international standard of financial reporting was not fully in line with the EU's Fourth Directive. Micro-legislators will be obliged to apply the ministry's rules, which will be tailored to tax needs. The application of accounting standards, which are recognizable in a larger space, allows for better, easier and more reliable information on the financial position of an economic operator, which is interested in potential financial information users, such as bankers, investors, shareholders and others. On the other hand, however, it can be concluded from the above that the law provides for three different frameworks for financial reporting. International standards of financial reporting, which are more complex, international standards of financial reporting for small and medium-sized enterprises, the ministry's regulation, then entrepreneurs will be able to use simple bookkeeping, and budget users will have a cash base, meaning that there will be five frameworks for drawing up financial reports in Serbia. The question is, is this what we need and is there this number of frameworks for drawing up financial reports in EU countries as well? Also, the paper of the bill is to prescribe new deadlines for delivering financial reports. Legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs, are obliged to provide regular financial reports for the reporting year, to the Agency for Economic Registers by 30 June of next year, a shorter deadline than the current law provides. The deadline concerns adopted and revised financial reports, which were submitted by 30 September under the current law and the deadline for submitting financial reports for statistical purposes, continues until February, as was the current law. The optimal solution, I am now speaking from the perspective of potential investors or business partners, would be to reduce the deadline for submitting financial reports compared to the month of June, i.e. to create the possibility that legal persons, especially now these new legal entities, micro-legislators, who have the obligation to draw up only a balance sheet of success and balance sheet, can only submit supplementary documentation with already made financial reports, which are necessary for public publication. This would make the procedure much simpler, and all those interested in having insight into the business of a particular legal person can do so in the first quarter of the year. We must bear in mind that financial reports should be useful to those to whom they are intended and be on time. Also related to deadlines for publication of financial reports is an inadequately long 60-day deadline left to business registries, as provided for in Article 36, to publicly publish data, documentation from full and accurate financial reports, which in practice means that financial reports will only be available to the public in the third quarter of the current year. What has caused the most controversy in the public is that the proposal for this accounting law provides for a legal entity, i.e. an entrepreneur, by means of a general act, to regulate the conditions for a person who will run books and draw up financial reports. The law does not prescribe any conditions regarding work experience, education, or any other qualification. However, the law foresees collective responsibility for a legal person who signs financial reports, for the company's administrative body, for the supervisory authority, as well as for a person who keeps business books and draws up a financial report, which is first introduced by this law. I believe that this will force economic operators to trust professionals with great experience and professional training and introduce a greater order in keeping book rules. The law does not stipulate that those involved in accounting services must have a licence or certificate. They're not even allowed to do that. There is no doubt that the law will lead to serious economic operators trusting the management of business books to serious accountants. What bothers is that this profession is placed in a privileged position compared to all those professions that are required to have licenses to do certain work. By applying the Accounting and Audit Act, it made it quite difficult for non-profit organisations to operate and complicated the way they draw up and file financial reports. By the way they have to submit financial reports in Serbia, hay associations differ from businesses although they do not belong to the state sector and do not make profits. The bill is headed towards resolving the problems of non-profit organisations, with a specific contiguous framework being set, under which non-received organisations will submit financial reports. Since 2004, non-profit organisations have been placed on the same level with businesses, without respecting their specificities and differences, and have been directly damaged by cost increases, which the non-profit organisations have had in this way. The promoter noted the objections, identified the problems of non-profit organisations, and envisaged a much better solution by new law. In Article 45(1), paragraph 1 indicates that the supervision and verification of the correctness of the recording of business changes is carried out by the tax administration. As a colleague from the New Serbia parliamentary group said, are we perhaps returning the SDK? There used to be discipline in the system, and its headquarters was SDK. Thanks to the position in the system, this service was also a database of extremely high-quality statistics that Serbia today does not have. The SDK was abolished in 2000 without any serious arguments being made. The key argument was that SDK is a relic of socialism and does not fit into the privatised economic system. The argument was actually absurd, and that time showed. The real reason was that SDK in all Serbian cities had excellent business spaces at excellent locations. As regards criminal provisions, in Article 46, the legislator provided for sanctions for the trustee if he did not provide the debtor with the status of unpaid accounts, but did not provide for sanctions for a debtor who did not fulfil his legal obligation, which is to inform the creditors of the compliance or non-compliance of mutual outstanding claims. Because of this, I've had a little consultation with my co-workers from the finance ministry, and they've given me an explanation that it's regulated by some other laws. I don't understand why it couldn't be stated clearly in the criminal provisions of this law, but okay. The newly proposed legislative solutions are primarily aimed at facilitating the business of economic operators. It is difficult to make a law that will suit all accountants and auditors and economic operators. The most important thing is that new laws bring new, better, better-quality solutions, in line with European Union laws. As far as the Revision Act is concerned, newspapers have also been introduced. The number of audit applicants has been reduced, which is linked to the new criteria for the classification of legal persons provided for in the draft new accounting law. The audit is required for regular financial reports by large and medium-sized legal entities, i.e. entrepreneurs, whose income exceeds 4,400,000 euros. The new criteria for the classification of legal entities will reduce the number of large and medium-sized enterprises, thus reducing the number of audit applicants. The paper of the law is that entrepreneurs who have income of more than 4,400,000 euros will be bonds of review of regular financial reports. We are facing a small inconsistencies here, as the reasoning of the law on revision states that the aim of introducing this newspaper is to facilitate the business of legal persons, so as to facilitate the business of entrepreneurs who, by this bill, become bonds of audit, which they have not been so far. How much and which economic operators will indeed make it easier or more difficult to operate The proposal for this law will show the application of the law in practice. Coordination with the 8th EU Directive is governed by a matter relating to the licensing and education of auditors, the independence and objectivity of auditors, the keeping of business secrets in the performance of the audit. The law introduced an independent auditor's institute, which so far has not been established. The audit will also be able to be carried out by independent auditors who will have to have a licence or a valid licence, by not being able to perform other activities or services. So far, there has been an obligation to change the audit company after ten years. The proposal for this law allows for the changing of licensed auditors. In the case of an independent auditor, it shall be changed after seven years. The company for the audit of large legal entities must have four licensed auditors instead of three, as foreseen so far. What is good is that the law also provides for additional services in addition to audits, which the Audit Society and the independent auditor can provide, financial analysis services, controls, accounting services, etc. The audit plays a very important role, as it increases the credibility of financial reports. It plays a significant role in detecting irregularities and assessing the reality and objectivity of the financial situation and the results of the business. Banks and investors are interested in the revision because of the need to monitor their claims, i.e. investments. That is why it was important to form a body for public oversight and control of the work of the Chamber of Auditors, the company of auditors and independent auditors. In general, the proposals for accounting and audit laws achieve greater compliance of domestic legislation with EU directives and with certain shortcomings and inconsistencies that these laws have, however, will improve transparency, control and availability of legal legislation for all users in practice. As the mandated SPS representative Dejan Radenkovic said, the SPS parliamentary group will support the bill's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20745	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20746	Dear Madam Minister, representatives of the government, respected chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, the state of business in Serbia simply makes us think and take serious care of the monitoring of financial operations and financial reports of all businesses. Of course, the state needs to get involved in this control and take care of the whole situation, because that's the only way we can improve the economy. So only if we have a proper analysis of the situation, if we have good facts and input parameters can we have some more quality results. These next steps that would follow from this analysis can lead us to some improvement, to some improvement, because we swear to that real sector, to privates, to the economy, and we don't always work at all times to encourage them. So they need an incentive from the state in any way. Anyway, I wanted to say as my colleague, the authorised representative, said, that it's a good thing that accounting and audit laws are now separated and that they are so adopted as system laws. In the previous period, at least talking to people from professional associations it wasn't very defined when they were jointly done. The opinion of the auditors should be seen as one of a kind of quality and financial information attestation, and thus trust gained in these entities that are currently doing audits. The positive opinion of the auditors can only represent one positive communication, i.e. an open door in collaboration with other institutions and other companies. Negative can certainly lead to the opposite. No matter how well these system laws are passed, which is an idea like the DSS itself thinks that system laws are being passed and that it is primarily working to help the economy that will only help us get this country out of the crisis through its activities. I'd like to say that there's a safe space to improve these laws in certain parts, so I'm going to focus on the review law and possibly try to make some of my doubts, see if I've got some things right and possibly give a proposal for improvement. I would go from Article 1 to defining terms and terms that appear in the law itself. We have a term here - a nonpractical or nonpractical, and I would like to ask for a little explanation of what that name means. I haven't found any translation of what that can mean except to point out as a person without practice. By reading some of the other writings of this Directive eight, I have seen and translated that this one, I cannot call it impractical because my profession does not allow it, that it should possess knowledge from an area that is related to mandatory audit based on its professional skills and skills, or that it has knowledge from at least one of the subjects listed in Article 8 of this Directive. I think that should explain a little bit because definitely nowhere in our law, or the draft law on review, is anything like that. I think that should be defined. Article 3 also discusses certain details. In the very light of the proposal for a law on review, we say that we need to comply with EU standards, etc. Of course we have to follow all these modern trends, but we don't have to work by strictly keeping certain rules where we don't have to, and where we have to add, we don't have to. I would point out in this Article 3 where it is said that the translation of international standards of audit is certified by the Ministry. We also believe in co-operation with the professional associations with which we have discussed that it is not necessary for the ministry to do so. I wonder if the Department of Business and Finance has enough staff to do with these activities? There is an International Federation of Accountants dealing with the translation and publication of these international audit standards in accordance with international regulations, etc. Our Association of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia has been working on such activities since 1996. He is a member of this International Association and their memberships are rights and obligations to deal with these matters and translations. I'm just saying if the ministry has enough capacity and why would they change something if it already works and works properly. I do not think it is a deviation from some rules and directives as they are done in EU countries. Also, when we talk about authorised auditors in Article 6, certainly authorised public accountants who have passed and tested and acquired this calling in accordance with national accounting standards can also be called an authorised auditor. These are the terms that we should also introduce in this Article 6. Why do I say that? If what can and is used in the standards and in the application of EU law, we should also define it in our law. We do not need to exclude certain terms and specific, authorised public accountants who can also be in EU countries related to the revision of something similar and stands, I have even received information that it would not be possible in Serbia alone to recognise an authorised public accountant as an authorised auditor. The colleagues who spoke earlier also mentioned licensing, you replied. Perhaps we should consider why the ministry would now, regardless of what you said it was simply issuing a license, and all the other documents were collected by the chambers, we are asking whether it was necessary to change? Could this in the ministry lead to a stalemate in the issue of these licences, or might that mean new employment in the public sector itself, in the Ministry of Finance for those people who would work directly on the issue and approval of these licences? I would refer to Article 21 and ask whether if this is how we define that all these entrepreneurs who have annual turnover of more than 4,400,000 euros have an obligation to work a revision, will this classification lead to the quality and reliability of financial reporting, generally in Serbia? My opinion is that we have to arrange this sphere, because I don't believe that companies that are not subject to the obligation to make an audit will do so on their own when they need to do a review. I don't think we're at that level yet, at that level, and that the state should work and make all businesses do audits, because there are a lot of different examples that I've heard of recently and related to some companies that might have been able to come into some business contact with companies abroad or be bought or in some partner or similar relationship and that when they come and establish co-operation, they immediately seek the auditor's reports for the financial operations of the company in the previous few years. They don't have it, of course, and then generally Serbia has a big problem because this foreign company is giving up and leaving. We've heard in the last few days that the government's basic strategic objectives are to bring these foreign investors. We won't be able to realize it this way, because if we think we're helping this sector, because a privateer can't do well at all times, we have to as a state to some of our obligations and imposing these obligations to help them. I think if we force them to and by law we define that as wide a group of companies as the bonds of the audit. What I'd like to point out may be that you mentioned something like that, which is what audit control is like for many companies that eventually turn out to be logs or dysfunctional and then fail. I had a few examples just in my end of the company's collapse because in the privatisation process she was doing well, then taking loans from the bank for multiple numbers than the actual value of that property, the property sold out, the facility itself was mortgaged and then the owner disappeared. The company goes bankrupt and the workers run out of work and that environment runs out of business and the banks are short. I wonder if the greater control of the state in those moments would lead to the prevention of something like that, to take a mortgage on a mortgage, and to keep these companies operational? We have examples in my area, and there are plenty of them in Serbia, the Rocket, the Gradina, the meat industry of Chatin, and certainly plenty more all over Serbia. What leaves us one empty space, surely this law does not do it but it is a revision of the financial reports of public enterprises, where it really has to be taken care of. That's what your colleagues were already talking about, that the economy can't carry this public sector that's a trom and that's a waste. In addition to these laws on audits and accounting which, as you said, certainly lay a certain basis in monitoring financial reports, a number of other laws must be passed that could establish a system for the economy to work a little better. To state this is the freshest – the Law on Planning and Construction, which has not yet been passed as a system law, and the provisions of this previous one have ceased to apply in some parts. That's what we need to devote ourselves to, and to reducing the administration. Something may have been done, but certainly, part of it has to be improved. I think we need to do a little bit more work in this sector too, to make everyone work, and in order for the state to move at least one step forward, if nothing else. What I still wanted to point out is that the objectives of the review should be: providing reliable economic information to all stakeholders, strengthening confidence in the management of companies that have done this audit, facilitating access to sources of credit and providing additional capital sources, as well as strengthening the basis for sound economic decisions. If we achieve these goals, we can certainly have certain improvements. On the other hand, I would ask a question – are you sure these laws will really lead to the achievement of these goals? We also have the establishment of this board of public surveillance. I already said that the state has to exercise control over these audits. It is simply necessary and okay, we follow regulations from EU countries. I'm asking again, is that a new job? I mean, it is, but how do we define it? Why is it said that these "non-practicator" will be in the majority and why not all of them? In what way will these people who will be members of this board of public oversight be defined and elected? Finally, I believe that the coordination of all legal solutions, as I have already said, must be on the agenda and these congregations and must be taken into account in order to improve the conditions for the development of the economy, so that our state does not remain here and that we also have to decide not to burden ourselves, so people's expressions, non-stop and taxes on the economy, that the public sector does not make any reforming in the field of administration, nor in the area of its financing of various very unnecessary things, and that all of these are ultimately citizens paying. We have to help the economy, because without the development of this private sector, we won't be able to get out of this hopeless situation. Modern standards certainly must be followed, but only realistically considering the facts we possess and above all we have to work on the law, because it is basic and it has not been very respected lately.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20747	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20748	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said both in the afternoon and in the afternoon part of this session. In a few sentences, I will comment on all three laws. I'll start with the factoring law. Somehow, the impression is that by abolishing the legendary multilateral compensations by the year 2000, it has resulted in the opening of space for these beginnings of factoring jobs in our country. The right time to edit this area is also the beginning of the application of the Law on the collection of claims in 45, 60 and 90 days. It is good that this law will regulate this area, because these services will be increasingly used. It is up to the trustee or the debtor to do a post-benefit analysis on the price of factor services or interest rates in business banks, which he would take as a short-term payment credit, i.e. payment of claims. Basically, companies themselves need to protect themselves by good contracts with both customers and suppliers, in order to avoid overpriced factoring services, which we are witnessing is currently the case. In the case of ino-bought deals, they're the best off-balances jobs, but in order for the export business to come true, sometimes the so-called. softer billing conditions and then factoring can play a significant role. Much is also said today about the price of factoring services, and it will depend primarily on the volume of traffic, on payment deadlines, on risks, on export credits and on the risks of the country to which it is exported. When we talk about the Accounting Act, I think this bill is good, it is in line with EU rules. I don't see this newspaper as a problem to anyone. In the end, the accounting organisation in firms or the engagement of accounting agencies is only a service for carrying out the registration of goods, i.e. services provided, payment of claims, purchases, etc. The question that is not asked here, and it is important and regulated in fact by some other laws, is the question of the skills of accountants in harming financial results and showing minimal profits, i.e. losses, which avoids paying the profit tax. What is interesting and has caused great attention especially to the Bookkeepers' Association is a member of the 5th Law, which refers to the liberalisation of the provision of accounting services, where there is no legal obligation to train, educate and license accountants. It's a matter of volunteering and belonging to professional associations. The responsibility for financial reports is therefore at the choice of the person to whom the director, i.e. the management trusts to keep his business books. I don't think that's a problem. The paper is also in Article 29, chapter 7, which is a newspaper in relation to the existing legal solution. Namely, the legal person is required to draw up an annual business report, which includes an objective review of the development and performance of the legal person and its position, together with a description of the main risks and uncertainty it faces, and to specify the measures taken to protect the environment and data on workers, if necessary to understand the development of the performance of the business and position of that legal person. We're basically calling it a Swot analysis. And today some of the more serious companies have been doing Swot's analysis. Also, no objections have been accepted from individual accounting associations, audit firms, as well as representatives of companies, which relate to the introduction of certifications to business book-keeping persons. Given that these requirements are not provided for by EU directives, only the licensing of auditors and the increased costs that legal persons could have on these grounds is required. When it comes to the Revision Act, I will stick to Article 32, i.e. to the compensation for the audit carried out. It says – compensation is paid for the audit and the amount of compensation is determined by contract. My question to you, Madam Minister, is whether public institutions and state authorities, given the level of costs of audit services, are obliged to conduct public procurement procedures? I think it makes sense. What dissatisfied accountants are, that's Article 33. The audit law, which says that the audit company may, in addition to the audit, in the context of its registered activity, also perform financial and accounting services, financial analysis services, controls, etc., so that each other enters the portfolio. That probably caused a lot of disdain to the accounting association. Also, education and composition of the review committee, Article 43, companies of public interest are obliged to have a review committee, a business monitoring committee. It is not clear to me which regulation regulates their independence and which regulation they are working on, since it is merely stated that the review committee is doing business in accordance with the law governing companies, so that, possibly, if you have an answer to that question, I would be interested in it. As for chamber memberships, I don't know what the auditors said, but I think this should have been arranged differently, in a way that everyone wants to be chamber members, not some binding role for members, so that members have bigger benefits. These are briefly some of my observations. I'd like Mrs. Minister to make her comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20749	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20750	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have three laws on the agenda at this united point. Mrs Kalanovic, it seems to me that you have gone a little too far in the opening part, when you said these legal proposals would allow great benefits for our economy. Because whenever we had such performances, I don't mean you, but above all, the Minister of Business and Finance in this House, after that, we had new attitudes and new problems that private entrepreneurs had, but we didn't celebrate with the public sector, especially the Law on Public Enterprises, which is so much praised and so much talked about it as an act that would bring great benefits to our country, when it comes to public enterprises and their functioning. It seems to me that since the formation of this new government, we have one trend of boasting in European reach, of calling for compliance with European directives. Certainly, it is good on the political side, but it is no excuse to increase bureaucratic procedures, increase red tape, and that is something that Serbia and Serbian citizens face, given that today we have more than 10,000 new workers in the public sector, primarily in bureaucracy. Today, we are discussing legal procedures that will really lead to compliance with EU directives, but I think that a new measure could be found that would allow for the application of objections, in particular by the accounting associations and associations of business companies, which could in some ways be met, likely that some of the provisions were different. What these suggestions really would have come up with should have been said. It will also bring new commitments, bring new contiguous balances, lead to a new group, these micro-enterprises that will be the majority of legal entities, but will certainly bring new costs. It will bring new costs due to new contiguous balances, will bring new costs due to new employees in the administration, will lead to new costs for the purchase of software, and I am convinced, will in no way lead to a reduction in costs for businessmen and private entrepreneurs who hire agencies that are generally outsourcing book-keeping. I'm sure there won't be a cut in bookkeeping prices for them. On the other hand, new commitments are introduced for both the budget and the economic operators, and I don't think that's good. As for the revision, it is predicted that companies with revenue of more than 4.4m euros have a mandatory annual audit. It should also be said, Mrs Kalanovic, that it will cost perhaps more than 20m euros for companies that will have to do them, because they will have to pay for that audit. That's absolutely not a discharge. When we talk about legal solutions, we need to talk about what they really bring, not talk about praises. I think, apart from destroying professionalism, when it comes to accounting, these laws lead to an increase in bureaucracy and that's not good. It's not good for the state either, it's not good for the economy either. You're saying in your explanation that these laws will contribute to the fact that we have medications that will still be available, among other things. Just to let you know that today over 70 types of drugs are not on the Serbian market, including stents and children's vaccines. You're also saying the budget will be fuller because of such legal proposals. Last week, we had a draft budget rebalancing law, which is the crown proof that this government doesn't know what it's doing and that we're going to have over two billion euros in budget deficits. And that's true. It is true that the revenue side is unrealistic and that we will not have income from the real sector as we expect. We've only got cancellations. We have over 40,000 fewer employees than the formation of a new government in the real sector in Serbia. You say collective responsibility is being introduced for governance in economic operators. What about public enterprises? Who's gonna be responsible? Are the phantom supervisory committees responsible or are the illegal boards responsible today? The same goes for the directors. Who's gonna be responsible? Those who are not elected to a competition that stands in law, or those who are party-elected at government meetings? That's also what you should say, because when we talked about the Law on Public Enterprises, you claimed it would lead to professionalization and separation. What do we have today? We have a situation where most of the provisions of this law are not fully respected. What authorities will make decisions on financial reports? What supervisory committees? Those who have never been elected under the new law, or directors who have never been elected, or board directors? That's what I'd like you to answer, too. Over the past few weeks, professionals have been replaced in many places. Among other things, an internal auditor at Telecom, who was elected to the competition and brought a face, also, according to party membership, was replaced. Is this practical application and alignment with European procedures? I don't think so. I think the citizens of Serbia are also aware of that, and that is now quite clear. The proposed laws will not contribute to an increase in our economy. They will not, first of all, because the new laws will question who is authorized, who is responsible. It is obvious that there is no responsibility in Serbia today. When we talk about responsibility for financial reports and responsibilities for conducting the audit, you have an example of JP "Srbiagas", where the state auditor has serious objections and nothing is happening. How do you expect companies with an income of 4.4m euros to be more responsible? First of all, the state needs to start introducing order, not from those who are the most vulnerable today, and the most endangered are ordinary economic operators. I think that reducing transparency through bureaucratic procedures, which are introduced and increasing the intelligence of the finance minister, will lead to foreign investors having greater doubts about our economic operators, having greater doubts about buying, investing in our country. This will not contribute to recovery, it will not contribute to an increase in investments at the lowest level in the last few years. The proposed laws are not fully reflected in all European directives. We also handed over the amendment to that meaning. There's also an amendment to the Committee that talks about it. I think that for reasons that I have already stated, as far as bureaucracy, unprofessionalness, the absence of support from the accounting association and economic operators, we will not support this set of laws and we will not give credibility to proposals that will not do any good in our economic environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20751	MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20752	Thank you, Vice President. I'm going to use this time to discuss some of the views that my colleagues have been making today from other MPs' clubs. We listen carefully and comment at the MP's club, and it's just amazing where we get so much regret about the social bookkeeping service or the paying agency that was one amazingly abolished, which had a control mechanism, and then we wonder why our pension fund is empty, why someone can give himself the right not to pay taxes and contributions and to increase our public debt. We listen to all sorts of mourners who are directly involved in all this. So, I'm not going to name anyone in particular to be recognized. At that time, many things that were quality, useful, were destroyed without any explanation or reason. Probably someone else will be dealing with motives. When I spoke today as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I did not want to give examples from our country, when it comes to that review surveillance, so I just cited the example of Enron. Fortunately, we had no consequences, some countries in the environment, such as Croatia, as I recall Romania, Hungary. Maybe I'll make a mistake, I'm sorry. Artur Ardenson's audit house, which was among the first five world-renowned audit houses, or not seen, did not read from documents that were presented to them there or did not want to, and then came what had happened. So that's what we're talking about. It's not clear to some colleagues here that this is exactly what this surveillance is all about, simple surveillance. It must increase that degree of responsibility so as not to be surprised when a situation arises, so as we did not know. First, we have positive results, one year positive results, second year, third year, and then what happens happens to us happens to us. Unfortunately, if there were any intentions, I'm going back to the SDK service so that it can be abolished, that there is simply no system of world payment control. There you couldn't, all those who knew and who were doing business then, anything to bring there, if it wasn't right, if you didn't pay well, if you didn't bring the bills when you took the cash to justify it, that clerk was parafisculating you. Totally incomprehensible, that's the tendency, but never mind. Unfortunately, the people forget it, but we're here to remind them of all the good that was and it was the predecessor after those privatisations, which were what they were. I simply hope that the investigative authorities will look at everything from the very beginning and make detailed analyses of everything, whether or not the laws were ever passed with any intention, whether they were in function of all these things, so the question is whether anyone was working in accordance with the laws. I say again, we should go back, in which way laws were passed, whose interests were to pass such laws. Once again, I must point out that it is our parliamentary group's desire to support everything that is quality and that in practice we have as many quality laws as possible. I think this is an excellent set of laws. In addition to the accounting audit, I said, it may be less important, but today, it's the most important thing for the economy. There are businessmen who still don't know what the benefits will be, they'll feel the benefits of the factoring law. I think it's great and it took a long time before it happened, to put it on the agenda, to simply stop that indifference as it was synonym for our economy and just go a little more positive over the course. I repeat again, I can't have the big ones blackmailing the little ones anymore. So, that time, from the moment we say this, is past and will solve many of the problems that concern small and medium-sized enterprises. I won't take any more time. I repeat once again that this set of laws, which is before us today, means the law on accounting, the Revision Act, the factoring law, is one set of laws that will introduce some new trends in the economy. I point out that the SPS parliamentary group, as until now, I say it doesn't matter whether it was once in opposition, the position, what was quality she supported it at full capacity, because we simply need a consensus for many things and it has to be a leading star. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20753	A national emissary of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20754	The President-in-Office, distinguished Madam Minister, respected fellow MPs, because of the difficult situation in which our economy is located, because of a small number of investors, and because of the very poor financial reporting situation in Serbia, it is important that we arrange this area and the DSS supports what these draft laws are on the agenda today. What I would come from is that we all realized that the bad state of financial reporting in Serbia, to ask ourselves why? What led to that? Is the intricacies of the person preparing these financial reports or something else? Do the government's current commitments force businesses to maybe display basics for profit tax below? We increased the income tax from 10% to 15% a few months ago, and the finance minister, when we talked about rebalancing, said that the least revenue in the budget is now coming from income from profit tax. So that's one question that we need to consider what it is, why our financial reports are bad. In order to settle all this, in our view, responsibility should be determined and responsibility shared, both by the director and by the accountants who prepare these financial reports in companies. You know very well what the director is responsible for. So, the director is obliged to make all business changes, which the company has, to document the accountant, and the accountant is the one who should apply all international standards of financial reporting and advise the director to run the business according to this and the general principles of accounting. If we take that, if we share the responsibility, if we go back to the fact that the accountant is the answer, not just being the mere perpetrator of the record of change, it won't be good. We advocate that responsibility be shared, that the director be responsible, but also that he is responsible and authorised accountants in the company. In addition, it is important to talk here about the control of all financial reports and the control of audit reports. It regulates this second law, the Revision Act, which is extremely complex. I'd like to ask you a few questions where I may have some doubts and see how we can improve what you suggested. I hope that all these questions and amendments that we have submitted will improve this law that is extremely important. The quality of the review in Serbia has been getting lower in the last few years. We have witnessed that in 2012 over 80% of the audit reports gave a positive opinion on financial reports, and where we agreed that the situation is bad and that the financial reports, which show up, do not show the right situation in the economy. This leads us to read the audit reports. Madam Minister set an example for Agrobank, which is just one example. We had a report from the auditors about the Development Bank, and about the Serbs, and about Galenika. Most of these reports gave positive opinions to the auditor. Was anyone responsible for that? Did an authorised auditor with a license answer for what he submitted? Did the chamber, we now have the mechanism to control it, initiate one procedure to determine the responsibility of an individual auditor or an auditory house? There's the problem. These bill proposals that are before us, we can agree, are good, but none of that if they don't apply. Right through this question, I hope we get an answer. If existing laws are not applied in practice, which regulated the control of institutions i.e. The bodies, they didn't use it, and they didn't move, so how do we expect these laws that are now ahead of us, which may have regulated this area better, we have nothing to do with it. With these amendments to the Ministry's audit law, this is what we talked about today, it will issue licences in the future. You gave an answer to that. My concern was – why are we taking it to the chamber? In 2006, when the chamber was founded as an institution with great authority, with great powers, it was in the jurisdiction of the chamber, we now move it to the Ministry. The ministry will have to prepare certain personnel, technical conditions for all of this, and the chamber has it all. Why is that? Costs are going up again. If not, tell me if I'm wrong, given the difficult economic situation and budget deficit. So, what's left to do with the Chamber? The chamber will prepare education, conduct exams to obtain these licences, but the ministry will issue licences. So someone at the ministry is going to have to do this job, whether it's bringing new people, hiring or someone from the ministry is going to take this part of the job on their own. Another newspaper is to select a body, i.e. the Committee on Public Control, which, as the Supreme Supervisory Body, will control the chamber and all the companies of the auditors. That's very good, and we need to have one of the top bodies that will deal with this problem more, as far as the revision is concerned, precisely because of what I just pointed out, but this is the new body again, these are new budget expenditures again. We need to see what these expenditures are in the budget, the introduction of these bodies, and if they're doing their job, then it's justified. It doesn't matter how much it is, but let's see if they do their job. That's why the DSS thinks this committee should be elected by the Assembly, since it is the highest body to oversee this area and that the government is proposing to the Serbian Parliament a Committee on Public Oversight, and that we choose here and that we too have greater insight into the work of this committee. What I would like to point out, given the time, how much time I have left, at the disposal of our parliamentary group, I would like to talk a little bit about controlling these financial reports. We said that the control of financial reports will now be carried out through a mandatory audit for large, medium-sized enterprises, for public companies and entrepreneurs who have an annual income of over four million euros. That's where we can be divided. It's a difficult situation in the economy, the economy of the Greeks, we're introducing mandatory control. I understand why it's necessary to control it. We should have everything, but the question is the moment when we introduce, as a commitment to the economy, the obligation to audit and another cost to all these entities. Of course they can audit, and anyone who does business seriously will take it as a market service, they will review it because he needs business partners, because of investments, creditors, and of course they will enter the audit process. I'll agree with my colleague, Bojan, who said that perhaps our companies are not yet aware of the importance, how much it takes to be competitive, to have business associates abroad, that they will surely first ask for an auditor's report, to know who they are going into business with and who they will deal with. But I'm saying, just one little abstention -- is at this point, when the situation is this difficult in the economy, we should give another cost as a liability to businesses? Besides, I don't think the state uses all the mechanisms to control the work of a legal person. What do I mean? Who are the annual financial reports submitted to? They are submitted to the APR, i.e. I'm talking a little bit out of position right now because I come from the economy before I became an MP, so that's why I put it that way. So it's submitted to the APR. What's the APR doing? When you submit the report, he does that logical and accounting check. The tax administration, in other words, can carry out that regular control of the accuracy and recording of all business changes carried out in business books. In my opinion, I don't think that the state is using all the mechanisms, that the tax administration should exercise more regular control over the business of all the recorded changes they make in the books and that this is another kind of control that will help to make these reports more relevant, i.e.. that their truth may be greater. I'll get it over with, because my time is over, all these suggestions you've come up with will be good, we'll support them later if the practice shows they've applied. Once again, I stress that it is very important to see why, what it is that leads to the fact that financial reports are what they are. Secondly, if we are all aware of the difficult situations, the wrong ones, i.e. These reports that the auditors submit as though they were reports and gave positive opinions, and we all know how certain companies operate, if we stay on it, then we really haven't done anything and free this letter on paper if practice doesn't show an improvement in the future for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20755	Thank you. MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20756	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, the President-in-Office, Madam Minister, are separated from the new proposals by the existing Law on Accounting and Audit of Two Laws – the Accounting and Audit Act, which are joined in one legislative solution from 2001 and 2002. Time has shown that even the amendments in 2006 have not brought about any improvement and that there has been no harmonisation of the law with European directives, no appropriate regulation or applied international accounting standards have been adopted. It was normal and expected, to regulate this area with two separate laws. These laws regulate the way in which business books are kept, the assessment of assets and liabilities, income and expenditure, the collection and processing of financial reports, internal audits, and the conditions and manner of reviewing financial reports. The bill's proposals concern companies, cooperatives, banks, and other financial organisations, insurance companies, financial lenders, voluntary pension funds and a society to manage these same funds, brokerage and other legal entities. It also refers to individuals who carry out their own business in order to gain profits and who run their business books under the dual accounting system, as well as to branches of foreign legal entities. The law does not apply to budgets and beneficiaries of budgetary resources, nor to the organisation of compulsory social security, as well as churches and church organisations, religious organisations. The proposed law provides for the full application of international accounting standards for large and medium-sized legal entities, legal entities that consolidate financial reports and for all paper holders. On the drafts of both laws, a series of remarks were referred to, as well as the request for withdrawal from the procedure, the Association of Accountants and the Union of Accountants and Auditors of Serbia and above all to the introduction of a new category of legal entities, micro-legislators, with an explanation that this would bring great costs, both for those legal persons and for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the possibility that all legal persons with a turnover of more than 4.4m euros are subject to audit by them is not a good solution, but with an explanation that it is quite enough for management and one or two owners to control financial reports, it is excessive and thus the money from the economy is pumped without grounds. I believe that this is not the case and that the reasoning given in the draft law, which concerns the categories of micro-legislators, is correct and that in this way a large part of the economy is relieved of the obligation to conduct large-scale financial reports, and it is already only the part that is necessary for tax and tax purposes. Thus, the costs of the group of legal entities will be lower, rather than higher, as stated in the request. If so, you can see from the criteria for the classification of legal persons and a group of micro legal entities. This is, above all, the average number of employees less than 10, the business incomes of 700 000 euros, the value of business assets of 350,000 euros. Also, what is important to you is that micro-legislators are given special attention in the EU, and this adds to the amendment of the fourth directive of 2012 which defines criteria for the classification of micro-legislators. The introduction of micro-entities is aimed at further simplifying the conditions for keeping business books and drawing up financial reports for this category of legal entities, as well as reducing business costs related to financial reporting. The paper is also that micro-legislators make the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of the position in their financial reports in accordance with the sub-legislative acts adopted in accordance with the general accounting principles prescribed by this law, by the finance minister. For comparison, the number of legal entities and their classification under the old law, i.e. the applicable law and the draft law, should be pointed out. Large legal entities under the current law are currently in Serbia 1163, and under the new law there will be 784, mid-2971 under the applicable law, and according to the 1979 bill, the young are currently 115,933, and according to the draft law there will be 13,754. There will be a category of micro-legislators, which are currently missing, in the number of 103,550. Micro-legislators deliver only the balance sheet and the balance of success, and small and entrepreneurs, along with the financial report. In relation to the existing legal solution, amendments have been made to the deadlines for the submission of regular annual, or consolidated financial reports. Namely, it is prescribed that all legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs who are bound by this law, should have their annual financial reports, including financial reports which are subject to review, for the current business year of delivery of APR by 30 June of the following year, in the current law is the deadline of the end of February. Also, all legal entities are obliged to, starting with financial reports for 2013, draw up financial reports in electronic form and sign them with a qualified electronic signature. The paper, in relation to the existing law, is an obligation for all legal entities and entrepreneurs to submit for statistical and other needs to the Agency for Economic Balance Registers, a balance sheet and statistical reports for the current year by the end of February of next year. This obligation also applies to those legal persons who have a business year other than the calendar year. In particular, it should be pointed out what, unlike the previous law, is defined who controls the recording of business changes in business books, which is the tax administration, as well as the introduction of collective responsibility by the managing authority and the supervisory authority in the legal entity for financial reports. The revision of the annual financial reports will be an obligation for those who fully apply international accounting standards. The audit firms will be authorised to carry out audits by the finance ministry, which will also be run by the register of these companies, as well as supervision of their work, once a year. The paper in the law is also the establishment of a national accounting commission, which will monitor the application of the EU Accounting and Audit Directive and international standards in these areas and propose a strategy and plan to improve the quality of financial reporting. This legislative proposal also provides for the establishment of a chamber of authorised auditors, six months after the adoption of documents, and this chamber will give, extend and withdraw licences and certificates to authorised auditors. Her work will be supervised by the Ministry of Finance. Professional calls governed by this legislative proposal are authorised auditors and authorised internal auditors, while professional calls for persons keeping books and drawing up financial reports should be organised by the legal persons themselves in the general act. In drawing up these legislative proposals, which have been made with respect to the EU's Accounting and Audit Directive, as well as respecting the market situation in Serbia, the World Bank, which gave a positive opinion on them, has also been consulted. Also, the third law of this set should be mentioned, and that is the proposal for a factoring law. The factoring is a financial service, the purchase of existing and non-accessible or future short-term cash claim, based on a contract for the sale of goods or the provision of services. The law defines participants, subject, conditions for performing factoring, type of factoring, rights and obligations, as well as supervision. It's intended for, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises. In voting day, the SNS will support this proposal set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20757	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20758	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, remarks and comments on the context of one of the laws of the joint principle debate will be my attempt to get your attention and hope that Prime Minister Kalanovic's representative, Minister, will also have the understanding of the changes in this law, following the remarks I have. It will be my sentences only on the accounting law and only on Article 4(5). The bill, which says: "The provisions of this law do not apply to churches and religious communities, except in the work of carrying out economic or other activities, in accordance with the regulations governing the performance of these activities. "My comments and support for citizens' initiatives, i.e. the Association of Citizens for Democracy and Civil Education, which also dealt with the working course of public debate on the bill, wrote amendments together with experts on the non-profit sector, have my support for their initiative and for the content of what they want to share with the legislator, to directly participate in the adoption of the law. Most of the discussion we heard was about who the accounting law applies and who it obliges, and my minutes will be spent on reasons why the billmaker decided not to apply to churches and religious communities. That's where I ask the first question of the government's representatives. The question is, have the churches and religious communities submitted financial reports for the funds they received from the budget regularly every year? If they did, they'd deliver those financial reports to us. If some are, and some are not, that we are told which churches or religious communities have not submitted financial reports on the funds they receive from the budget, which are and in what way is justified, explain why the opportunity of the Accounting and Labour Laws Bill has not been taken advantage of, that is, the Association of Citizens together with non-profit sector experts, that we make this area quite clear and that Article 4 of Article 5. The bill deletes, that both churches and religious communities, as associations, as legal entities, are bound by accounting law? I have participated several times in the debate on this subject, starting with the adoption of the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, and it has been offered here as an explanation, namely, its Article 30, which says that churches and religious communities can be completely or partly exempt from tax and other obligations, in accordance with the law, which introduces appropriate public income. This isn't about introducing public revenues, and churches can't be freed from part of tax obligations because they don't have any tax obligations. A long time ago, this debate took place in a dialogue that was rare and for many of my constituencies full of disqualifications of me because I believe that churches should file financial reports for every money they receive from public income, from Serbia's budget, from cities, from the Vojvodina budget, from local self-government, so I also felt that they should pay taxes. I was disqualified and qualified in a variety of words, which I didn't care about because these days it shows that if anyone was well-intentioned towards churches and religious communities, then it was us who asked for financial reports to be submitted and that clearly, as well as any other, equal to the Constitution and the law, they saw how money was spent inside churches and religious communities, obtained from public incomes. The church would be spared by scandals. The church would run out of fuss over various affairs that we're witnessing today to happen. I'd like you to remember here that it's never the enemy who wants to introduce the order in favor of being all equal before the law. The problem with the lack of financial reports of churches and religious communities, if true, the representative of the government will answer us whether it is true that all churches and religious communities do not submit financial reports, is very serious, because the public income, because the money in the budget is in the money of all Serbian citizens, who are "taken" under the laws that we bring here in the Assembly and again, based on the laws that we bring here in the Assembly, is from that money collected from all of them in a legal manner, conditionally saying, is given only to some. I am the last who would be opposed to giving money from the budget to churches and religious communities, but I am the first one against being singled out of the Accounting Act and out of the obligation to submit financial reports. Why? I also express my position, supporting and discussing the draft civil initiatives and their amendments. Because I think, again, that it's good for churches and religious communities, except it's good for the clear attitude of all of us who would then see that we're all equal before the Constitution and the law, no matter how we join some organizations. I would hate for the government's representative, Minister Kalanovic, to have financial reports filed by all churches and religious communities, except for the Serbian Orthodox Church. I would very much not like it to be the answer to the financial reports, and for the funds directly and in various other ways, through public enterprises, through various mechanisms, given to churches and religious communities. Why should I pray, if twice there was a critical lack of will for this amendment to be adopted in 2011, in 2012, when the law was then withdrawn. Why would I want this third time, by the will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Representative of the Government and the Committee, if possible, to take this Article 4th paragraph 5. By making a decision of the Committee, do you still delete it from this law? Because it would show that we understand what it's really about, that we don't question other people's intentions, but that we listen to other people's arguments, and mostly because it would be good for the churches and the religious communities, because that would start to bring back the fallen reputation amongst the general public, given the doubts about how much trade, how much money, which is completely invisible to the state system, therefore, both for this law and for each other, how much there is in churches and the religious community at a free estimate. If we could see exactly 4,400,000 euros in this law, as some kind of border, how much money does it turn to the Serbian Orthodox Church? So much, less, 50 million euros, 100 million euros? Why should we speculate, and why we should open up a debate that can take various tones, except for one that would be good for us to start with the Accounting and Deletation Act of Article 4 of Title 5, which excludes churches and religious communities, except in the part of economic activity. It coincides with the debate on these laws with the news that we have about an inappropriate scandal, I don't know if you'll believe me, but I am very sorry that such a scandal and the discovery of such a species, that something costing a million euros, has been paid two million euros, because it further undermines the reputation of the Serbian Orthodox Church, and we are a society that needs trust, a fundamental trust in various institutions where society rests. Regardless of what kind of political ideas we are, whether personally in any circle or social group in society we agree on or not, we need trust in the elemental things in society, so that we can move forward. Our assessment, I support the position and civil initiatives, except that this is my personal position since the day we had discussed the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, in order to adopt the position of the Committee, to delete this member, to help build trust. If it is possible that the Prime Minister now gives me the answer, who of the churches and religious communities has submitted a financial report for the funds he received from the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is okay, if not, to ask him as a parliamentary question, because I consider that kind of information very important for the sense of equality before the Constitution and the law, and for respecting the money collected from everyone, to be given only to some? As I had in mind in my proposal to introduce taxes for churches and religious communities, which, unfortunately, today shows that it would be useful, and now I have in mind the reputation of churches and religious communities, which should not doubt that everything, or some of them, are not bearing financial reports for the money they receive from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20759	The word has Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20760	This amendment, submitted by the MPs, seems to me to be the LDP and related to the obligation to submit financial reports to the religious communities, I will explain to you in the way the government has defined itself to do so. First, it is not true that churches are exempt from submitting financial reports, but in the area where economic activity is carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in the law. So if certain economic activities are carried out within the church and religious communities, they are subject to the same regulations as other economic operators. But you know very well, we advocate respect for the Constitution and the law, even in this highest home. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly provides that churches and religious communities are free and self-organise their internal organisation, religious affairs, public religious rituals, establish religious schools, social and charity institutions, manage them, etc. According to the Law on Churches and Religious Communities in Article 26, it is said – that churches and religious communities manage their property and money independently in accordance with their own autonomous regulations. Personally, you've made your personal point, I'll tell you myself as a member of the government, I think that's the way it should be, that the state has no right to interfere in church affairs and vice versa. As I will be opposed to the state expressing its views on government policy and local self-government, so I will also be against the government and local self-government getting involved in church affairs. Unfortunately, I will not discuss and consider that in the church as well as in every other part of society, unfavorable events appear, and that none of them are at this moment free or protected. One more thing I want to tell you is that this topic has been discussed at the level of the government and that the Office for Co-operation with churches and religious communities, precisely calling for autonomy of the church and the religious communities established by both the Constitution and the law, has absolutely rejected this way of mixing. You have asked one other question concerning budget spending reports. I will tell you, as someone who has participated in the realisation of nearly 400 local and regional projects in the previous period in Serbia's territory, that some of them have also been linked to improving infrastructure on religious facilities, a report has been submitted for each of them. I simply do not want to create this suspicion and to insinuate that where the reports were requested on spent money, and they referred to precisely defined projects, the religious community was deafened by the demands of the relevant ministries, to deliver reports on the funds spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20761	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, two minutes of replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20762	I'm using the MP's time since we have time for a parliamentary amendment group. So it's an independent arrangement of every company. Unfortunately, I see a continuation of the same lack of understanding of the arguments. That's all you've told me about any commercial society but by will, apparently government, does not apply to churches and religious communities. You can't offer such an argument and take it seriously that that's why churches and religious communities are exempt because then you should exclude other people, because they all self-organize their relationships and business societies and have their own. If I understood you correctly, all the churches and religious communities that received money from the budget submitted a financial report. If the departments in charge asked them for all churches and the religious communities submitted their report. Is that the essence of your answer? So all churches and religious communities. People's MPs are getting that this isn't a market. You know, when you have a position on the budget that gives money to churches and religious communities, and you don't get a financial report, it's much worse than the market. Then it's a bad service, primarily to the church and the religious communities, and to disrespect the money collected into the Republic of Serbia's budget in a legitimate manner, based on the taxes that we decide on here. I am grateful for the answer because the answer is that churches and religious communities give financial reports, if they are asked by the competent ministries for plans of investment or whatever, which are carried out nearby or with sacral objects. That's a nice answer, but I didn't ask that. It is known exactly what is the position in the budget from which the money goes to churches and religious communities, I ask for that position. Do all churches and religious communities submit financial reports or not? It is an important thing, and unfortunately for me, as it turns out I was right when I asked for seven years ago, so five years ago, so three years ago to be equal before the law, all of you to quote Minister Kalanovic – the unkind events would not have been possible because the laws are exactly what they serve, to prevent something that should not happen in society. Unfortunately, we'll wait another day, some other changes and additions to the Accounting Act, and we'll have another likely impeccable event to determine that Article 4 of Section 5, which required the removal of churches and religious communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20763	Dejan Radenkovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20764	Vice President, you have severely violated the Rules of Procedure. I don't know on what basis you gave the previous speaker your word? So, we're not talking about amendments today, not in time of the parliamentary group, so it's just amazing, especially to listen to these ridiculous stories against the church. I don't think that's the time or place to talk about it here. It's totally inadmissible, and throwing it away, and I don't think it makes any sense that you might have made a mistake, but please don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20765	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20766	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Ms. Kalanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the three laws that the ruling majority gave us and it is a bit strange that we are discussing laws, especially the budget at the time when the government's reconstruction is announced, and when we do not know which of the ministers will implement the laws, especially when we have an announcement that there may be a deviation from the government's policy and that the government's policy will change. It's an unusual situation, for you to write a script, share the main roles with actors, and then you say, "I'm sorry, now you're going to watch another movie, it's not the movie that was announced." Do you remember that colleague, Dragan Vujadinovic? He was an MP from the DS, from Koseric, author of the book "Inverse Economy". I think he might be able to say a lot of things to these laws today. I'll just say a few things to you, Dragan Vujadinovic was a man of the people, he was a kind of economist, he used to criticise these rogue names that entered everyday use from some other spheres. Factoring, when you tell your neighbor today, when you meet at the market, he asks you what you're doing in the Assembly today, we're discussing the factoring law, you have to explain to people what factoring is. So the factoring is here, according to the financial service of the purchaser of the existing default or future short-term cash claim. I don't have a lot of objections when it comes to that law. It's a law that requires the time we live in, some new rules of business, and it's a law that's necessary to pass. We live at a time when we passed the Law on the Reconciliation of Legal Obligations, but again the other day we discussed the settlement of travel companies. Is someone going to want to buy state debt to travel companies and whether those debts are in accordance with law 45, 60, or 90 days or somewhere for a few months? Is this law going to blow up some kind of road economy? Of course not. I have a few more serious objections when it comes to this law, but the loudest remarks I will have when it comes to the bill of accounting. You remember that campaign that was announced with the guillotine regulations, it turned into a guillotine oak regulation. Instead of cutting the regulations, the oak is cut. As I said, power is power, and oak is oak. So, at least he's 600 years old and at least he's far less rotten than the hands that want to cut him. The accounting law says this, the public debate is about this law being conducted and in this public debate that lasted long, the professional public was included, and the Union of Employers and the Faculty of Economics and we cannot complain that there is something hidden from the eyes of the public. Again, we have several fundamental remarks here. I wanted to respond to Article 6 paragraph 1 of the amendment in the criteria for the classification of legal entities to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, so I gave it up, because there are strong reasons why it should react to the amendment, but there are reasons why it should not react to the amendment. Maybe it's not a bad question to ask again if maybe micro-enterprise criteria could be different? That instead of 10, he'd be 20 employees. Instead of profiting from 700 000, it will be 1,400 euros and the average value of commercial assets will be, instead of 350,000 euros, 700,000 euros. This isn't just a memory, because someone's reported it's supposed to be the way it should be. This would ensure that more legal entities submit a shortened set of financial reports. Instead of teaching eight, he'd be teaching three. This would reduce unnecessary costs for making a report, since often these reports cost more than practical benefits. This isn't my position, I'm not that kind of economist, this is what the accounting people have said, this is also said by some profession and professor of economics at a seminar in Zlatibor, and maybe it wasn't bad to think about it. It's already a matter that we can agree on or disagree on, and it's a matter of profession. I'm saying this is just one of the proposals and it's not the main stumbling block in this law, nor is it something that can be the subject of a replica between the people of the ministry and me. I must say, I'm sorry that Mrs. Verica Kalanovic is here. I can talk to you about corridors, roads, as nice as we always talk about, but don't think I'm not giving up your presence here right now. I always like to communicate with the biggest party of the ruling coalition, because they are the ones who create both politics and reconstruction of the government and economic reality. I have no expert there, I have no one to ask, because they are not quite up to running this country's economy. Those when it comes to Belgrade say, so we would change power in Belgrade, but we don't have so many professional people to replace all the ones we need. How you will lead Serbia, when you do not have for Belgrade. In Article 14 of the Law, it would be important to arrange who can edit business books. Business bookkeeping has become a very profitable activity in Serbia and is often intruding into the gray economy area. Very often, these are the short-term courses for bookkeeping, without some special training for people to run these business books. However, the main stumbling block is Article 32(2). As regards those provisions on the true and fair display of the financial position, the performance of the business of the legal person, it is said therefore that the legal representative, i.e. the managing authority and the supervisory authority of the legal person, is in accordance with the law, i.e. the entrepreneur as well as the responsible person referred to in Article 14 of this Act. I see that the biggest government party in the economy is not very interested and not understood. I understand that they don't follow. When someone doesn't understand something, it's best for them to shut down. The person responsible for Article 14 is the accountant. Now this wasn't supposed to be in the bill, but it wasn't even in the previous accounting laws. In practical conditions, an accountant often does not have adequate authority. Someone can provide him with documentation that's not appropriate, that's falsified, that's set up, that's done differently, that I don't say can be certified on the potato stamp. The problem is next. In order for him to have this responsibility, he must also have certain powers. And there's the State Secretary, as far as I'm concerned, and the Director of the Tax Administration has agreed to that position. I say no to mine again, that's the position of the Bookkeeper's Association. There was a stands in the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia where people expressed few of those views and they conveyed a message that you from the ministry, in a way, had agreed with the tax administration. Let's get this straight. There must be a responsibility of an accountant established by law for what keeps books. But I'm saying, we have to predict the imagination of our people in Serbia, it's colorful and diverse, and the possibility of abuse of power with us that creativity when we need to abuse some powers, and the imagination of people, always goes beyond the imagination of the legislator. We as legislators can never get into our people's heads what they can think of. For example, whether an accountant can bear responsibility if the firm has not submitted the documentation to the booklet or when a person has provided you with an incorrect document as valid. Where's the bookkeeper's responsibility? The prosecutor will, of course, determine that, but the accountant will be called to account. Especially as a problem, I see these final and transitional provisions. Will there be retroactivity in this law? Will this law provide for all forms to be made within the time limit? That we do not now have the possibility to draw up a financial report for that year according to the rules and patterns of the old law, so that from the next financial year, solutions from the new law are applied, or business years will begin with existing rules and patterns, and then, before the last year's report is drawn up, the rules and patterns will be changed. That's what I'd like to make sure of. That we don't have a situation like we have a situation right now that you can't register a car because there's no traffic permit forms. So right now, if you want to buy, register your car, get confirmation, and try to go to Greece with that confirmation. They tell you you can't with confirmation, you can only with a traffic permit. Of course, I have a few more objections when it comes to the revision bill. The revision is a very important law. Especially since we are witnessing that often on the pages of the tabloids adopted directors, politicians, presidents of the executive boards of banks, supervisory boards of banks, but never the auditor. Never did one who put together a business review sit on the defendant's bench because he did his job badly. On the other hand, we also had politically ordered audits. I'll just remind you, all of you fellow MPs, that we have here in this room had a statement from several ministers who baptized with their left and right hands on the issue of how it is possible that the State lottery of the Republic of Serbia is doing business with a loss. And they kept asking how it was possible for a loss to occur, and then some people said, so you know, we were forced to make such a review report, that "Luthria" was dealing with a loss. Of course, when a person makes a mistake about the law, it is not just a question that is often asked in public how much he has acquired an illegal property benefit. She's always easy to determine. But the more difficult question is how much damage the citizens have suffered directly. We never get that answer. It's never happened before to say, okay, he took so much and so much, but how much damage the citizens suffered, no one ever did. It is not like when we divide that damage into eight million Serbian citizens, so we say each one is in charge of so many euros, dinars or larger currencies. There is damage to the institution of the system, there is damage to the legal order of the country, there is a pity that such acts are done afterwards, and, of course, the biggest problem is when such laws are passed, whether these laws will be applicable in practice or not. The basic thing where we express suspicion and skepticism when it comes to the laws passed by this ruling majority is that the laws are slow to live in practice, to be implemented slowly. You know, if you cut a 600-year-old oak, you can't be in Serbia, Green, and for Europe you can't be mature. Then you are to Europe "Green", but "Green" to get in there, and in Serbia you are rotten, ready to fall, like rotten fruit, and that is the best parameter and indicator of the seriousness of one government and one state, which first works, and then reconstruction. It's like you've built roofs, walls, not foundations, and then you need us to convince you that your foundations are solid enough to carry walls and that these walls are stable enough that they can endure without foundation, you don't believe it yourself, let alone me. If some essential things don't change, then it's better not to change the laws than to keep the old ones. If the laws change to really change some essential things, then we will always have the support of both the authorities and the opposition, because we all want a better one for Serbia, but if that improvement is only a improvement for those who have party cards and membership cards, and not for all citizens of Serbia, then there is a certain skepticism, suspicion and mistrust in the range of such reforms and the extent of such changes in the laws. Finally, I will tell you again, since repeating is the mother of success, not all my fellow MPs from the biggest ruling party have listened carefully, but I am sure that this law will change again, so I guess they will be more careful then. Also, I am sure that all colleagues from the biggest government party do not understand much we are talking about despite the desire to understand, because their party president says nicely - we do not have personnel for Belgrade either. When you don't have for Belgrade, where to find them for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20767	Mr. Millyvoy, please don't underestimate the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20768	I understand the warning. I'll be done very soon. So don't make laws... (National MPs of the SNS Group, from the place: Sit down. You're upset again, you're angry again. Are you shocked or angry? I'm done. As anti-shock therapy, don't change the laws unless you change the essence and you really reform this society and this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20769	National MP Aleksandar Radojevic, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20770	Article 107, violation of dignity. If a colleague has his own interpretation, I'd like him to determine the method of science that determines who's capable of understanding something that he's speaking highly of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20771	You have to admit, I acted on time. So I think your reaction was unnecessary. That's what I've done to remove that injury, but if you think it's worth deciding on on the day of the vote, you can plead. Thank you very much. Is MP Tomic there? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask whether representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) People's MP Dejan Radenkovic called for the word. You've got 40 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20772	I think today's debate was very constructive and I think each of the following should be in that spirit. Of course, they spoil some of their colleagues for that constructive debate. I hope that, over time, through various models of reconstruction and this Parliament, they will be eliminated slowly and that we will have one serious debate in parliament, not to conduct tenorous and ordered debates and make mistakes that are not acceptable. After all, this is the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20773	Time. Minister Kalanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20774	I want to thank all the parliamentary groups who today have tried to improve the text of these three system laws. However, today has personally marked my doubts about a number of MP groups that the laws that have good text and which are good as proposals will have implementation problems. Dear MPs, I agree with you – law enforcement is much more difficult than law-making. As for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it will, in the coming period, together with professional institutions, with the professional public, but also with the support of the World Bank, which announces the implementation of these laws, do its utmost to adopt a sublegal act as soon as possible and implement these laws in practice. Let me finally say one more thing. All of us sitting here, coming from political parties that are in power, some at the bar, some at the country level, some at the central level. If we all try to implement these laws, then it will be clear that we will have a better result. Because I can't accept the fact that something that bothers us here in parliament at the central level doesn't bother us at the bar. And when we talk about the business of certain firms at the central level, it's not allowed, but it's allowed when we go down to the bar. We need to be consistent because it's the only way we're going to improve the economy system and make it possible for our citizens to live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-09-0.u20775	I am concluding a joint principled search on the motions of the law in points. 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
