ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20618	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly provide information on four, or one item of the agenda, of the bill that we need to discuss today. First of all, the proposal for a law on the taking over of the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" towards companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and the conversion of these obligations into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of this law are as follows: companies dealing with the regular maintenance of regional highways, as well as the maintenance of electrical installations on the roads are in a difficult material situation due to the debt of JP "The Ways of Serbia", the necessity of resolving the problem of unregulated obligations of JP "The Roads of Serbia" towards travel and other business companies by taking over these commitments becomes the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary to pay back the backlog of companies, as their postponement would lead to bankruptcy in order to question the regular maintenance of roads in the Republic of Serbia and would significantly endanger traffic safety on roads in the Republic of Serbia. These are also the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure and for entry into force before the eighth day. The constitutional framework for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97 point 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for the Republic of Serbia to regulate the regime and security in all types of traffic. As regards the amount of commitments, the Republic of Serbia is taking over, as a public debt, the commitments of the JP "The Ways of Serbia" towards travel and other companies totalling 1,346,775,000 dinars according to the state of the commitments reached and unpaid on 1 April 2013. The funds needed to reconcile above those commitments to companies will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the acquisition of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The law stipulates that in three equal wars, in the next five months, the debt was paid by JP "Serbian Roads" to travel and other companies. The next item is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Obligation of Health Institutions to High Drugs based on the acquisition of medicines and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of this law are as follows: The Law on Taking Obligations of Health Institutes to High Drugs on the basis of the acquisition of medicines and medical materials and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia entered into force on 25 December 2012. The aim of the law was to settle the debts of health institutions on the basis of the medicinal products delivered, which ended on 30 September 2012, in order not to question health care and the supply of drugs and medical supplies. The law requires that the Republic of Serbia assume, as a public debt, obligations in the total nominal amount of 13 billion dinars, and that the government, on a proposal from the ministry responsible for health affairs, will determine by a special act the level of individual demand for each major drug industry. On the basis of Article 5 of the Law and the conclusion of the Government of 2543/2013, as of 28 March 2013, the level of individual claims of each major drug supply for the unsettled obligations of health institutions was established and amounted to 4,999,657,709 dinars. The adoption of public debt under the law regulated the debts of 170 healthcare institutions, i.e. claims to healthcare institutions by 227 large-scale drugstores. The conclusion was delivered to the Ministry of Finance and Business, the Public Debt Administration, where the data check found that due to technical failures, when collecting data, the amount of public debt commitments should amount to 4,908,021,000 dinars. Based on the factual situation, it is necessary to amend the law in the part relating to the amount taken by the Republic of Serbia as a public debt, by precision of the exact amount of debt. The Constitution is not the basis for the adoption of this law as contained in Article 97 point 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for the Republic of Serbia to regulate and provide, among other things, a system in the area of health. So, the Republic of Serbia takes over, as a public debt of the Republic of Serbia, the obligations of health institutions under the Regulation on the plan of a network of health institutions according to large-scale drug supply and medical materials. The obligations will be met in accordance with the dynamics provided for in the law. The next item is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of annex number 1. Agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. There are also reasons for the law. The agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure was concluded on 20 August 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. The agreement aims to improve co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the two countries based on the principles of solidarity, reciprocity, complementarity, and with mutual respect for sovereignty. Based on this agreement, three credit arrangements have been successfully implemented through the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as an authorised state institution, and this project of building the Zemun-Borca Bridge, with associated traffic, a scanner procurement project for the needs of the Republic of Serbia Customs Administration and the first phase of the Kostolac B thermal power plant project. Annex 1. The agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China was signed in Belgrade on 8 May 2012. This annex provides for amendments to Article 3. The agreement, so that the monitoring and implementation of the Agreement, in the work relating to the construction of the Zemun-Borca Bridge with the associated traffickers, is in charge of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia as a contracting officer, in accordance with the then applicable Ministry Act and the City of Belgrade as a user and investor. Another amendment to the Agreement concerns Article 6 which provides for the introduction of customs and tax reliefs on the transport of goods and services, as well as imports of goods carried out under the implementation of the Zemun-Borca Bridge project. After the signing of Annex 1, the legal procedure for his confirmation by the National Assembly could not be implemented, given the fact that parliamentary and presidential elections were held in the Republic of Serbia during this period. Annex 1 shall be applied on the basis of a temporary application clause from the date of its signature and shall be ratified and the procedure for its entry into force shall be completed. Implementation of the Act on Confirmation of Annex No 1. The agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China requires no special funding from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We are coming to the Law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on a loan for the realisation of the "Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Assistance Programme through the domestic banking sector and support for local development through public utility companies". The purpose of the loan is to support Serbia's economic development by encouraging improvements in the private sector and small and medium-sized enterprises, improving basic local services provided by public utility companies, and the value of the loan is next. The credit is conducted through two credit lines totalling 63.25m euros. The first credit line worth 33.25m euros for the promotion and development of small and medium-sized enterprises has been completed, and a second 30m-euro credit line for crediting also small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as public and municipal enterprises, is under way. Credit terms are next. Credit goes into euro. A grace period of no more than two years has been foreseen. The repayment period is up to eight years and the effective interest rate is 4.85% on an annual basis. The minimum 70% of credit funds will be used to finance the purchase of goods and services of Italian origin, such as equipment, technology, technical assistance, maintenance of an industrial licence, and a maximum of 30% of the loan funds will be used to cover costs in the country, such as equipment, raw materials, spare parts, services, crafts necessary for the needs of investment projects, for contracts with domestic suppliers or Serbian construction firms. There are also criteria for obtaining credit. Small and medium-sized enterprises must be registered in Serbia for at least two years in credit-line sectors. New start-ups can also compete, provided they are 100% owned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and micro-enterprises will soon be allowed access, after the government has completed the proper procedure. Public utility companies can also compete, Italian cooperative offices will provide technical assistance in the preparation of documentation. Costs not acceptable under this Agreement shall be domestic taxes, customs duties and VAT, commercial enterprises, lease companies, insurance companies and financial enterprises, investments in recreational activities, gambling and housing, investment in industry, weapons and ammunition, tobacco and tobacco products, production of heavy alcoholic beverages and processing of products whose imports or exports to certain countries are prohibited by applicable law or international agreements and contracts. The credit is possible to obtain over nine selected banks, these are Banka Inteza, Credit Bank, Eurobank EFG, Jugmes Bank, Commercial Bank, Procredit Bank, Serbian Bank, Union Credit Bank of Serbia, Folks Bank, and contracts with three other banks will soon be signed. The amendments provided for by the law are therefore made by the 2012 Amending Agreement and the 2013 Amending Agreement, which were created by the exchange of diplomatic notes. The 2012 amendments provide that when a public utility, as a borrower, has the obligation to submit a report on the public procurement procedure to the competent national audit institution. It has been established that such a state body cannot be determined, so the reports are submitted to the auditorium chosen under the signed agreement. In accordance with the 1987 Law of the Republic of Italy, criteria of acceptability, ethical clauses, general principles of the contract were adopted, all in line with the general principles of public procurement of the EU, which are foreseen by Annex 1 to this Act. The 2013 changes provide for micro-enterprises with fewer than ten employees, established by EU Recommendation 2003/361, to be introduced as end-users of the credit line. The minimum and maximum amount of loans from individual contracts for Serbia's small and medium-sized enterprises are set at between 5,000m euros and public utility companies between 150,000m and 2m euros. This was a brief introduction to what we will discuss today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20619	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. National MP Djordje Kosanić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20620	Dear Minister, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a joint principle and uniform search of four points of the agenda, four draft laws, and this: a bill on the taking over of commitments by the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia" towards companies, a bill on amendments to the Law on the takingover of the Veledrogery Act and two agreements on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Italy on the implementation of the Programme - a credit to help small and medium-sized enterprises. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all four draft laws. My presentation today will be focused on the proposal for the Act of Confirmation of Annex No. 1 Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of China. You will allow me at the very beginning to state the basic reasons why the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this bill or mention an agreement that was defined in August 20th. Its realisation improves co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the two countries, of course Serbia and China, based on the principles of solidarity, reciprocity, complementarity, with mutual respect for sovereignty. Under this agreement, three credit arrangements have been signed through China's Export-Import "Delixim" Bank, and I will say a little bit more about it later, and this is the Zemun-Borch Bridge Construction Project with the associated traffic stations, then the Scanner procurement project for the needs of the Republic of Serbia Customs Administration and the first phase of the "Kostolac B" project. Speaking of the agreement itself, within its implementation, the first conclusion was the Treaty on construction, design and construction of works on the Zemun-Borca Bridge, with its associated traffic facilities, which was in the middle of the 15 April 2010, between the Republic of Serbia, at the time it was the Ministry of National Investment Plan, as an orderer, and the city of Belgrade as a user and "Cina Road and Bridge Corporation", as a contractor of $255m. The same year, July 14th, an agreement was concluded on the loan of a privileged buyer between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese Export-Import Bank. The loan provided a loan arrangement of 217 million and $400,000. It is predicted that 85% of the loan will be imported into the Labour Contract and the other 15% will be provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here it should be said that after the Ministry of National Investment Plan was shut down, the job was taken over by the Ministry of Finance. In the text of Annex No. 1 is foreseen, it is in Article 3. The agreement, so it's taken over by the Ministry of Finance. It is also important that Article 6 provides for the introduction of customs benefits on the transport of goods and services and imports of goods carried out under the implementation of the Zemun-Borch Bridge Construction Project. Annex number 1 was signed on 8 May 2012. The Ministry Act restored the ministries and established their work and is now accordingly the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications in charge of amending and supplementing Annex 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now you have to say is this loan that we're getting a favourable loan? Certainly, it's a favourable loan if I say that the deadline is 15 years, starting at three years and a fixed interest rate of 3%. Surely we can't get such a favourable credit arrangement anywhere in the world. On the other hand, I have to say that it pays the Chinese, which is a little bit odd, to invest in Serbia for a number of reasons. For the sake of estimates, investments in American vault records bring interest of 1.6%, while here the credit arrangement is even 3%. Speaking of our Exim Bank partner, it should be said that it is one of the three institutional banking organisations authorised to implement state policy in industry, foreign trade, diplomacy, economy, finance and provide financial support and encourage exports of products and services. In the largest Western countries, it is known that the volume of its loans exceeds all the foreign loans common by members of Group 7. Based on the assessment of London's Financial Times, Exim Bank and China Development Bank approved at least 110 billion dollars in loans to governments and companies of developing countries in 2009 and 2010. As for our Chinese partner, it should be said that their accelerated development has been moving there since 2000. According to a report by China, in late June 2012, it had as much as $3.24 billion in foreign exchange reserves. As early as February 2006, China surpassed Japan at the level of foreign reserves. Its foreign exchange reserves, compared to 2002, were only $386.4 billion. When it comes to Serbia and China's co-operation, it should be said that the volume of trade in goods was only $4.7 billion in 2001, and in 2011, the value of trade reached as much as $52.9 billion. This means that the exchange between the two countries has increased by an annual growth rate of 27.6%. Is there any potential for further cooperation? It certainly exists in various branches, such as chemical, machine, automotive and energy and telecommunications industries. Here's another illustration. I want to say that China increased grain imports to 1.4 million tonnes in 2012, which is a record purchase since 2005. That must be another potential for us. Returning to the mentioned agreement on the construction of the Zemun-Borca bridge, it should be said that the construction of the Zemun-Borca bridge or the bridge of friendship between China and Serbia is a major project of China or China's first major project in the Balkans. The bridge will bridge the Danube River to contribute to a better traffic connection between Belgrade and Vojvodina. In addition to contributing to improving regional ties, it will also allow for the cross-crossing of Corridor 10 with Corridor 4, which connects Western Europe through Romania with the Black Sea. The bridge also has great importance for the Serbian capital itself, as it will connect two parts of the city, Zemun and Borch, creating conditions for their economic development and the construction of business and housing facilities. In part of a tour around Belgrade in Corridor 10, this important international traffic station will be removed from the city centre, as well as the transport of dangerous goods vehicles, which is in the interest of environmental protection. The project envisions the construction of access stations with a length of nearly 22km and eight smaller bridges. In the construction of the bridge, domestic enterprises will participate with 45%, which is particularly important for the construction operation. According to some estimates, construction firms together with material producers will generate 77m euros in revenue. Here, it should also be said, speaking of the bridge itself, that the bridge is about one and a half kilometers long and with two separate bridge structures of a width of 13.95 meters on common pillars. The main structure is a continuous carrier that crosses the Danube into three ranges of 95 meters along the coast and 172 meters in the middle of the river. What I still want to say about this agreement is that certainly the JS parliamentary group in voting day will support this agreement. As for the second agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Italy, it refers to the Programme -- a loan to help small and medium-sized enterprises through the domestic banking sector and support local development through public utility companies. It should only be said here that certain shortcomings in individual members have been identified at the beginning of the implementation of the agreement, which have created a problem in the implementation of the programme. Given that foreign signatories have agreed on disputed members, it is agreed to be amended also through amendments and agreements. What is important for JS as far as these agreements are concerned, it should be said that JS supports such agreements. They certainly create opportunities for co-operation in various other areas, not just those in which they are signed. As for the Italian partner, I must say that JS led several delegations in various countries during the previous period, headed by JS President Dragan Markovic Palm. It's a good example of Jagodina, and there's a recent Italian factory called "Andrea Confection". They will employ over 500 workers, they will work for famous suppliers, like known firm "Fiat", then "Folksvagen", then other known companies and, of course, components will go around the world. Also, two other factories are being opened. One is a car seat factory and the other is the Viba factory, which will invest 55m euros and employ over 200 workers. I have to say here, it's a good case, hiring over a thousand workers, and I think this is a vision of development not only of Jagodina, but of all of Serbia, through what's going on. At the very end, I will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support all four draft laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20621	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20622	Dear President, Vice-President of the Government for European Integration, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how are we going to get into Europe like this, Mrs Grubjesic? I believe that what you have to endure here today on behalf of the Government, that it is much harder or that it will be much more difficult than the worst stages of the Brussels negotiations and those behind us, and God and those who are before us. The LDP parliamentary group has today prepared to talk about these proposals, especially the draft law that you want to translate 1.35 billion dinars of the JP "The Ways of Serbia" into public debt. We expected Minister Dinkic to come. Believing that there is some obligation, I was hoping that engineer Milutin Mrkonjic might come along, so we could talk to him best about how he and his negligents from "The Way of Serbia" lead this company and push this country into new debts. Unlike the JS gentleman, I don't think this is the right way and the model to develop all of Serbia. All sorts of bill proposals, Mrs Grubjesic, were in this Assembly, aware of that and yourself, for a long time you have been a Member here, but such a rude bill as the proposal to take the commitments of JP "The Ways of Serbia" towards companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and to convert these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, I read because the infrastructure was incredible, it was long gone. You know how to translate everything into English in the process of European integration. I don't know how you are or how you're going to translate into English, especially in the categories of European legislation, just the name of this law, and the provisions, I'm absolutely sure that's not possible. So, this law has seven members, and even the one that says when the law comes into force is disastrous. First, the bill set only the total nominal amount of JP's "Serbian Roads" debt on 1 April 2013 and nothing more. It is said further that the Republic of Serbia is taking over the public debt of this commitment. You know, 1.35 billion dinars is more than 11.5 million euros per current rate. You are coming before this Assembly when I say, I mean the Government, of course, I don't think that you are personally responsible for this bill, with the idea of asking Serbian citizens, taxpayers, to pay 11.5m euros in debt made by the Serbian Roads company, without any information, without any kind of list, on which it is due to companies, on which grounds it is due, why JP "The Roads of Serbia" couldn't, as expected from all other companies in this country, to regularly serve the obligations, why "the roads of Serbia" we have to meet in this way, and not to meet, say, a private sector which, among other things, is due to the poor economic policy of the government or due to debts that public enterprises have, perhaps in an even worse situation than JP "The Roads of Serbia". I have at least a dozen questions, I don't know if you'll be able to answer them, and I don't know if Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic has time to deal with it, I'd like to. Fortunately, some legal procedures still work in this country, so there is something called a regular annual financial report. I have in front of me a Financial Report by JP "Serb Roads" for 2012 and notes along with these financial reports and on each side there are three crimes for long-standing prison sentences. Let's start with how much Serbia's citizens' money actually collect, spend or throw away JP's "Serbian Ways"? To make it clear to voters, i.e. taxpayers in Serbia, in 2012, JP "Serb Roads" collected more than 14 billion dinars or around 120m euros from tolls, according to their income as part of an oil derivative excise, around 8.7 billion dinars, from the state's donations another billion and 600 million dinars. All that was in the JP "Serb Roads" not enough to meet its legal obligations, but for 2013 you just, or MPs of the ruling coalition, gave them another 6.2 billion direct subsidies a half hour ago, and now you're asking for another billion, or 11.5m euros, respectively, practically, to write off the debt. You are looking for or bringing this parliament into an impossible situation. The interpretation of this bill is so heartwarming that it is somewhere between levels, Turkish series are still too serious for this, the Latin American series from the worst production. In these companies that are owed 10,000 people, we have to give what is now required so they don't lose their jobs. That's right. I have a lot of understanding for these people. But what did you do before that to improve the situation in Serbia's Roads and to make them, for example, behave differently from tomorrow? The first page of "Note with Financial Report" states that the government has appointed a solution as director of Zoran Drobnjak, a graduate engineer. That sentence is already based enough that LDP cannot vote for such a law. That's the man who made who knows how many scandals in the last few years. I don't care about him personally, that's what the previous government and this government allowed him to do. Every time you mention Zoran Drobnjak, I will mention the scandal with traffic accidents at Novi Sad, when he was so arrogant that he spoke – they are not blind to seeing such a concrete pillar. Such a man has no right to ask any taxpayers in Serbia for any money. The company you're asking us to take over their 11.5m-euro debt, based on this alone, had expenditures based on two billion dinars and minuses based on exchange rates of 5.5 billion dinars last year. "Serbia's Ways", Mrs. Grubjesic, for whom you are asking for 11.5m euros in new money, have not been paying VAT in this country for years. Since 2007, in an absolutely incredible way that is not allowed by anyone else in this country, the company is forgiven, or allowed not to settle its elemental legal obligation. The financial report of this company also determines the extent to which this obligation, i.e. the amount of the tax debt, which was created on the basis of the conduct of the crime, because when you do not pay VAT since 2007, this is certainly a criminal offence, it is the VAT obligation for 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 to 11 294,857,000 dinars. The interest is charged by 21 September 2012 to another 12,747,650,000 dinars. So sometime before the end of 2012, the debts of the "Serb Road" for unpaid VAT amounted to 24,000,000,000 dinars, slightly more than 200,000 euros. For such a company, which has stolen so much money from Serbian citizens, you are asking for 11.5m euros. News came out yesterday in the media that JP's Management Board "The Ways of Serbia" was in session. He's made some amazing decisions. The first is that respected decisions will be made by the Ministry of Finance, which is quite an interesting freedom that the board of directors of a public enterprise takes for themselves to decide whether or not to comply with the law or decisions of its founder. So after six years, they decided to start paying VAT after all. They also made a decision that in the coming period, since of course it is the self-government-socialist river public enterprises, they will conduct a comprehensive analysis and find models to do so. I don't know that any other company in this country can run analysis and find models to pay VAT since the law requires how VAT is paid. That's interesting, yesterday was July 4th, and before that, information was released in the media that Serbia's Roads paid VAT on July 1st. But what is scarier in all of this, Mrs Grubjesic, is the very fact that something called JP's Management Board "The Ways of Serbia" took place on 4 July 2013. Public enterprises under the Law on Public Enterprises have been unable to hold boards for six months now, so how "Serbian Roads" have the Governing Board, which is sitting on July 4th and making decisions. Are these legal decisions or illegal decisions? We have spent days here with Mr Dinkic, all the time convincing ourselves about whether a new leaf, a new logic, a new Mayan cet, and how from tomorrow, everything will be different, how financial discipline will be seduced. Last week, it came out that in the case of controls carried out by 42% of the debtors did not actually pay correctly, i.e. billing or registering the traffic for which the mandatory payment of VAT was required. So how, who has a cheek in this country, is going to ask these people to change it, to seduce financial discipline if "The Ways of Serbia" and then many other public enterprises that are also protected by this government, as was the previous government or previous authorities, behaves in this way. You want to end up chasing some small private, and at the same time these guys owe you 24 billion dinars last year just on the basis of VAT. What kind of message is that to people? Do you really expect to meet those goals you set with rebalancing? You say in light of the law that if we adopt this law that JP "Serbia's Ways" will be brought into such a liquidity state that they will be able to meet all their obligations in the future. How will they be brought into that situation when they already have at least 240 billion dinars of debt on the basis of unpaid value added tax? I can no longer count the reasons why we are against this law, so I will not mention them in particular, but one of them, Mrs Grubjesic, is certainly that under the article, other business expenditures in 2012 the financial report JP "The Ways of Serbia" said that the costs of advertising and propaganda were 12 million dinars. Can you explain to me why JP's advertising and advertising "Serbian Roads"? What is its competitor on the market so it needs to correct its business position by advertising in public? If anyone sees Drobnjak's freeway commercial, the billing house, will he go to his place to use the highway, and not to anyone else who doesn't exist in this country? This is not only a joke with the people of this country, this is also a direct violation of the law because, as you know under the amendments to the LDP Law on Public Enterprises, advertising is forbidden on a commercial basis to companies that have a monopoly position on the domestic market unless they get the consent of the Government. Are you the Deputy Prime Minister, has the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" been granted permission to advertise anyway? If so, for what reason? Of course, right next to the cost of advertising and propaganda are the costs of the team. The costs of the team are slightly lower than the commercials, they are 11.800,000 dinars. It is no wonder that JP "Serbia's Ways" is a firm, according to a financial report also, in which 2% of employees work in the general director's office. I suppose you'd be very happy to say that one day 2%, civil servants help you in the process of European integration. I think that would be great for this country. I don't know if you or anyone in the future are going to fight for it, but obviously Zoran Drobnjak and the directors of other public enterprises are allowed such luxury. What about other public enterprises, since they of course function the same way this company works. You still have supervisory and boards everywhere, and yesterday we talked about national parks, about Gerdap, about the sculptures of the sea, it is also in the JP "The Ways of Serbia". The little guy gets nervous, yells, then starts crying, he's sorry. Then join Milutin Mrkonjic and the neimars continue to make their losses as always. Secondly, how did you determine that these debts were 1.35 billion dinars? Why am I worried? Because, in parallel, you are today explaining the second law and this coverage of debts in the health sector where a completely incredible situation has turned out to be, that the difference in figures is enormous, that this parliament is required and obtained from the parliamentary majority consent to cover the debts of 13 billion dinars, and in the end they are two-thirds smaller, Mrs Grubjesic. What are the actual debts that Serbian Roads have towards travel companies or contractors? Because the 2012 report says 31.12. that these commitments amounted to three billion 758 million dinars. Minister Dinkic answered our questions yesterday said that around the end of 2012, i.e. in December, they were found at around five billion and paid for it, and in the meantime this billion and 350 million also appeared. How is that even possible? What are these people doing? Forty-seven questions, Mrs. Grubjesic. Yesterday we spoke to the minister about it and based on what contracts these obligations were made. The minister was interested in what he said, and I believe him and says that many contracts from 1990 or years around that time, and that these obligations that I'm talking about today were based on 9, 10 or 11 contracts. Since the '90s, the whole world has changed. There was no EU, because you run European integration but there are still contracts that complement the annexes and based on which you are looking for another 11.5 million for JP "Serbia's Ways". You say in the bill that the Government will, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Transport, determine the exact amount of claim each of these companies has. You know what, I don't trust the Minister of Traffic, and then I don't trust your government to do it in a normal way either. Is Mrs Grubjesic in accordance with some other laws that exist in this country? Will this takeover, or debts, be enforceable under the laws governing bonds or trade relations or other similar relationships? I'm not sure this kind of drug specializing can produce that effect. There's probably a lot of bigger experts here who'll be able to prove that something like that is possible. Secondly, what is the financial situation of JP "Serbian Roads"? Are they in a blockade or not in a blockade? I can see they've been significantly reduced by the amount of the blockade, say, Monday and Tuesday. I mean, 150 million. Was there that much traffic on the billing ramps last weekend? I'm not sure. Either this company is artificially pulled out of a blockade so it can do these or other similar jobs. I am not sure that European integration can be done on these grounds, Mrs Grubjesic. That European integration can be successfully carried out when there is such a difference between, say, entry and exit invoices in one company, as in JP "Serbia's Ways". In the end, there will be no topic either Kosovo or the Constitution or anything like that, this will be a problem in European integration. It was wonderful to see the moment Croatia enters the EU, but what were their most difficult jobs at the very end of integration? Much bigger than this problem of Croatia and Slovenia's relations, it was a matter of restructure of smuggling, i.e. they say of a shipyard, i.e. that system of public enterprises, i.e. a system of subsidies and grants. If we already have that as an example in front of us, why not learn something from that example? So, once we stop giving artificial breathing to these public enterprises or once at your request or never again, because you always say, another artificial breathing, to get some plan to restructure the public enterprise. How many less employees will have, as will raise the efficiency of the business, which is also an obligation, I remind you by the Law on Public Enterprises. The phantom management board of the public company "The Ways of Serbia" which sat down yesterday also adopted a 2013 business plan and ordered the management to draw up a plan for the company's internal organisation, i.e. a change. How can you first adopt a business plan and then start restructuring? I guess there's some elemental logic. If Zoran Drobnjak doesn't understand it, then you provide it, since it's your responsibility as a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20623	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20624	Dear President, this debate is certainly inspiring, but simply, therefore, your presence here, Deputy Prime Minister, has given me hope that we may apply some European solutions to the situation in which we are now, and that you will tell us, this is the problem we have with "The Ways of Serbia", the debt to health, and that we will resolve it in some normal states, that it will not spill out of the state register to those who are unconscious and irresponsible to do their job, that the unconscious and irresponsible will be resolved and replaced, that competitions will finally be called, and that finally those who, in accordance with their programme that will propose to the government and the ministry, will come to do their job. Those who will propose restructuring, rationalisation, change, and who will hire those 2% of employees from the entire company who work in their cabinet to do something useful without being the biggest consumers of the team, official cars and anything else that does not belong to their direct activity, which is building a road network in Serbia. You've come here to convince us, I don't think that's your intention, to give 11.5 million euros for the debt to the travel companies or 1.30 billion dinars to the toll companies. I was caught up with this bill, especially with only seven members, where you say through seven members that the public debt is being converted into something that cannot possibly be a public debt. Give me a country where debts are paid in this way. In those seven members, you didn't tell us anything. You haven't even told us how much the revenue of "The Way of Serbia" is, have you, since the registration of motor vehicles, where the fees for the roads are paid, whether from excises, whether from tolls. We don't know anything about that. We need to find this on the Road of Serbia site in that final report. You didn't even tell us when the contracts they're keeping those routes closed. These are the 1992 contracts and these routes are being maintained under the contract. Mr. Djuric mentioned the 1990 contracts, and we have some since 1992. Is it normal that for 20 years, every contract is annexed and that according to the formula that was in force in 1992, prices are not determined as they are now being determined? You didn't tell us if there was any control over the executive work, who was doing this surveillance, did anyone ever think to measure the thickness of the asphalt that is placed on Serbian roads or the bases that are placed on Serbian roads? It never occurred to anyone, and that may be the basic question. Not to hide behind 10, 15 thousand employees of companies who work for the minimumer and who are always the only victims of unconscious business in the ministry and the public enterprise and where you are trying to hide the problem of bad organisations, Javalluka and chaos in the toll industry, to hide behind those who do these jobs. We have a lot of understanding for 10 grand, so up to 15 grand employed in 26 road companies where these assets should go, but we don't understand those who run these companies, who own these companies. Is that Milo Djuraskovic from the "Dibens Group" which is now in prison, for us he is not important, are the employees of the company. Is it Director Drobnjak or Minister Mrkonjic? They're someone who has to file for us. I expected Minister Mrkonjic to come here to convince us and tell us if the road to the house of Ana Bekute was more important than Corridor 10, because we were able to find out from the media. It may be more important to him, but we do not know that it is for the citizens of Serbia, because this trip is over without any permission or anything else. That's what we learned from Bishop Fillarret from the press when he came looking for money to pay for the land of the monastery he crossed the road. Serbian citizens are interested in hearing that. Will asphalt control be carried out on Serbia's roads? We pay our way by the standards that apply in Europe, by some serious standards, and our paths fail after two years. Obviously, we don't have surveillance. The same director, Drobnjak, is responsible for the supervision of executive operations, to which the State Auditor determines irregularities every year. We are talking about 1.3 billion, and only 2010 irregularities established by the auditor and reported to this assembly and the government were at 32.5 billion at the disposal of "Serbian Roads". This has been established by the auditor and is all related to public procurement. We're talking about a man who's deeply deaf about the law, about a government that doesn't care about the reports of his body, an auditor, who cares about the legality of spending money. The auditor went so far, he filed a criminal charges against an authorised person in "The Ways of Serbia", in this case against Drobnjak. When will this criminal report be handled and when will we find out if anything and how something has been done? I am sorry that Minister Mrkonjic is not there, but in mid-2010, he officially sent a request to the Drobnjak's staff commission and it was then the government in 2010 refused, I don't know why, but then Minister Mrkonjic justified this by delaying the reconstruction of the bridge at Beška, which is finished in the meantime, but we will talk about it a little later, the tour around Novi Sad, the road to Horgos and everything else, and also raising prices beyond the contract, both for the "Gazela" bridge and for the "Beška" bridge. These are all the things Minister Mrkonjic applied for in 2010 for the discharge of Drobnjak. The small man, of course, is protected, we don't know for what reasons, maybe you can tell us, or tell all of us, to find out what his hidden qualities are, which is why he's still living in that place, since these public qualities are not available. Since he came to the place "The Way of Serbia", our paths have been getting worse and worse. There's a lot of debts, there's no control over the way he spends money, and there's lower criminal charges on his behalf, there's two for now. He's one of the prosecutors, and he's one of the State's auditors. We're waiting to see what happens next. Debts are coming down. We as a Assembly, or citizens, will pay the debts of Drobnjak for the second or third time. For the first time, a fee is paid for the maintenance of the roads during registration. Another time through excise, when everyone buys fuel, a road fee is paid. And this is the third time that citizens will pay out of the budget the costs of "Serbia's Ways", so that the budget that citizens redistribute again through VAT and profit tax, and through all other taxes, will again pay the debts of the same public enterprise. We are coming into a situation that we are all obliged to pay and be responsible for the business of "The Way of Serbia", except himself. And he, in addition to all the objections to his work, was unable to come here to report to us, as some other director would, and even Minister Mrkonjic, does not want to come here to face the questions we have for him. It's a question from Gornji Milanovac -- it says it's an estracian mafia, a concert mafia, as they called it in a daily list, where road funds are said to be easier to get than those who pay for a concert to an estrad singer, that was the case in Milanovac and Alexandrovac. We quote the man president of the county of Zup, who said it was a condition for him to get road supplies, which is to hold a concert of an estranged singer. Is this how we need to, to work the roads in Serbia? So whoever pays more concerts, they'll have more roads. It's a situation in Serbia and don't run away, talk about how someone else needs us, how we need someone to fix our situation, we need the EU, we need these, we need them, we need them, and we make the biggest problem is the oak on the way. It's not an oak problem, the problem is the organisation, because someone has shown that there is a 600-year-old oak in Serbia on some road, so I guess there's a possibility of moving it 20 meters. You know, Greens in Germany have been asked to go to the auto-bain, where it's allowed to go at the speed you want, so there's no speed limit, where it goes through particularly sensitive and important forests, a limited speed of movement of 130 kilometers per hour, to reduce the exhaust of harmful gases, to preserve those forests, and no one sees them as fools and their demand as ridiculous. A lot of understanding has people for it, and it just needs to be understood about some of the things that are happening with us, and we as DSS think that this issue of roads is not easy at all, that through seven members without any information in the functioning of Serbia's roads, contracts that are in effect on the basis of which we pay just that 1.3 billion or 11.5 million euros, because it's only part of how much this country really gives to the arches. In 2008, Tadic's Infrastructure Council was formed. We all thought for 5-10 years it would be along Serbia highways one, the other, the third corridor, the airport in every major city and everything else. As the council was formed, the infrastructure funds became smaller and smaller. Here I have a chart where you say – a review of investment in maintaining state roads. So, starting in 2006, where it was over 250m euros, coming to 2013, where only about 60m total. So here we are talking about a general concern for the roads in Serbia and we need to separate the way the funds are allocated and the way they are used. We are talking here about the need to systematically regulate the financing of roads in Serbia, systematically to be done, and that is to determine exactly how much of the excise on fuel, fixed funds will go to the road percentage, and that will be deliberately allocated, as in all well-organised countries, done and from the toll charged. In doing so, our toll must be one of the largest in the region. You go, Hungary, Slovenia, buy a vignette for nine euros and drive, seven days are worth driving on all roads, highways, which is Slovenia, which is Hungary. With us driving from Saturday to Nis is 12 euros in one direction. With nine euros, you drive as many cars as you want for seven days, so we have the largest toll in the region and our roads are in the worst condition, not to mention that Corridor 10, I don't know, is worse than Skadra on Bojani, as Minister Mrkonjic caught Corridor 10, he is in the worse and worse condition and is getting weaker and weaker for work, and the funds are never out again, especially given the information that Minister Dinkic gave us the other day, where 4.5 billion euros of credit lines have been approved for infrastructure, above all for roads in Serbia, of which 3.3 billion has not been realised and then Minister Mrkonjic tells us that someone has not done projects, and that he is the minister since 2008, and someone has not made projects. Well, I don't know, who's supposed to come work projects and who's responsible for not having any projects? They have the CIP at their disposal, there are all other city directorates around Serbia, who are able to do the project. We're talking about still not having projects. In 2008, Serbia's biggest problem was that we don't have projects, at least after approaching the then Infrastructure Council, now again in 2013 the problem is that we don't have projects and we can't withdraw loans. I think that this is an extremely unserious approach to one, for me and for us, the most important thing that should be the backbone of the development of the national economy, which is primarily infrastructure and travel economy, and that in this way, as the ministry, the roads of Serbia, and at all infrastructure, is not how Serbia can provide, if not in Europe, then in the region, municipal, traffic and road infrastructure. I think it's inadmissible given that significant assets are invested in infrastructure year after year. The special question is, why do only foreign businesses get jobs? You know, we have all the big jobs in Serbia getting foreign businesses, mostly Austrian, Alpina. If you look at the last 4-5 years, the most large businesses in Serbia have won, from corridors 10 to all others, from the bridge in Beška and everything else. Who does that? Are the workers from Austria coming to work? Are they doing the work? No, I don't. They work our companies and our companies can't get to work, but they get an Alpine that profits a little bit of money that stays out and takes away, and our travel companies are struggling with liquidity. We come to a situation that nearly 26 road companies are blocked at this point and waiting for these 1.3 billion to come, so that some costs can be covered so they can be on the liquidity line and then they'll wait again to raise the price to the toll, and again some funds will come to cover their costs. We are talking about the need to make a system solution, directly from excises, toll collection, where funds would be poured into the road maintenance register, which is estimated to be around 40 billion a year only to maintain all roads in Serbia, without investments that will naturally be realised on the basis of credit, and we here expect to finally determine the quality of work on these roads. I expect the government, since apparently Minister Mrkonjic has no intention, which gives funds to the finance ministry, to appoint one supervisory commission, to form a supervisory body that will determine the quality of the works carried out in the last 10 years. We've been plowing for five, ten years, to see how many asphalts there are, what the base is, it's very easy to establish. You will see that this is very serious, the funds are exposed to a quality that is equal to the pathways of local character, thus making us highways. And those new shares that were done, they were badly done. We have a bridge in Vienna that is 13m euros more expensive than what is agreed, which is not in function. One part's been in operation, and since it's been open, this other part hasn't worked yet. Some say, there are some technical problems, that there are some vibrations, something that may or may not be solved, I don't know what it is, but I just expect the government to check. As a party, we believe that this bill does not solve the problem, that this bill is an attempt to only cover up the poor business of the ministry and the Serbian Roads, that this bill is only an introduction to the new debts of "The Way of Serbia" and the entire road economy in Serbia. How will the government address the problem of the bankruptcy of Austria's Alpina, which has won to do most of the jobs in Serbia? You paid the Alpini advance to do the jobs. The "Alpine" has gone bankrupt and you are now pushing Serbian companies, which are subcontractors, to go to Vienna to report to the Austrian court for bankruptcy in their demand. It's a proposal from Minister Mrkonjic. Pay the advance "Alpine", "Alpine" money draws out, goes into bankruptcy, and then Serbian companies that work should and to whom the "Alpine" is due, should go to Vienna to report their debts to bankruptcy. It will be charged, you know, in the Limburg of the month, when the monkeys get their hair cut, and then again that debt will come to the government, or the Assembly, to pay the Assembly for the second time the debt owed to them by the Alpina, and it will come in a year. I hope then, Mrs Grubjesic, if nothing else, you will at least reach for someone. What I expected from you to hear the restructuring of "The Way of Serbia". We need a completely different approach to Serbia's roads and we need a competition to elect a new director. I don't get it. The contest has been called and we will see how it works and how the director will be elected. I can't wait to see that new director's plan. Simply, the way you have proposed this law, in which you will be proposed by all other solutions related to the travel economy, in this founding force in labor, I think the dead letter on paper and that they are not part of the solution, but this law is part of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20625	Thank you. The word is Mr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20626	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the first question to be asked by the government's authority today to defend these four laws. I really appreciate Mrs Grubjesic, however, I do not know what she has to do with the proposal for a law amending the Law on Obligations of Health Institutions, Major Drugs, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No 1 to the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China? Well, you're not the minister of Serbian-Chinese relations, you're the minister of European integration. What does your ministry have to do with a loan to help small and medium-sized enterprises or with the Law on Takingover of Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia? You came here today to quiet down. I assume that you are in some way the victim, that you have been assigned to come to the congregation, to talk, or to feel, about a topic that you do not have any close contact with because those responsible for the situation in the travel economy and the situation in that area, for which the government is responsible, are not here today. So there is neither Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic nor Mr. Ilic here today. Of course, there's not even the director of "The Way of Serbia" here. You're here because you're probably the only one in Belgrade today. Mr. Dacic and not to mention. He was not there yesterday, when there was talk of the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is estimated that there are more important jobs in this Serbia and far more important roads than the roads in the Republic of Serbia and the situation in the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Grubeshic, I have a lot of questions for you. I don't expect to get an answer from you. I hope you'll pass them on to the Ministers in charge. I think at least you know, as you travel, I suppose, beyond Europe and in Serbia, that you know what our paths are like. The roads are like in Turkish time from that epic song "The Sea, Marco, Don't Ori Roads". Our paths are modeled, healed, full of holes and the exact opposite face of the EU that you should bring us to. The public company "The Ways of Serbia" is controlled by a man who is not up for it, who is prone to affairs, who has done nothing to give the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" in the past seven or six years, how far the company has been operating positively, or to achieve its basic function, to maintain roads in the Republic of Serbia, highways, regional roads. In front of me, I have a 2012 report from the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", which shows that the revenues of 51.41% of the tolls paid, 10% of the proceeds from the excise on the sales of oil derivatives, 30.54% are based on compensation for the use of the vehicle of foreign registrations and the rest of the waste on donations from the state. Total revenues are 14.762,000 dinars. It is not a small figure, nor do Serbian citizens allocate small amounts to maintain roads in Serbia. I filed a registration application for the vehicle this morning and paid a registration fee. The tax is 8,554 dinars for a 12-year-old vehicle and below 1700 cubic metres. There are about two million vehicles in the Republic of Serbia, according to some statistics. There are about 1,640,000 passenger vehicles. So, every fourth Serbian citizen has a passenger vehicle according to the statistics. True, some have two or three, and some have none. It's like with a charm. There are about 200,000 cargo vehicles, 170,000 connected vehicles and 320,000 tractors. Their numbers are shrinking. If this agriculture minister remains, I'm afraid this number will be halved in some future period. Anyway, over two million registered vehicles. Every owner of this vehicle pays at least the amount I paid this morning. It should be borne in mind that the owners of freight vehicles pay almost 1000 euros for vehicle registration and all of this goes into the maintenance of roads, i.e. environmental protection. Where that money ends, no one knows about this united budget made by Mladjan Dinkic, Aelsandar Vukic and Dacic. In any case, Serbia's citizens will again be pocketed by the government today and taken on the basis of a public debt of 1,346,775,310 dinars as taking over the commitments of "The Way of Serbia" and turning these obligations into public debt. This is the best example of how this government has the resources of Serbian citizens, as the government respects the fact that it has received trust from Serbian citizens to cut costs, and it increases them and further owes the state. As the existing director, Mr. Drobnjak, runs this public company shows the fact that on an annual basis only on unpaid tolls, avoidance of toll payments, the public company "The Ways of Serbia" loses 1,746,000 euros. In position, they're: wild exits, card swaps, running from a toll station. What does it look like, say, the fact that you swap a card? I'll describe her. He says, a driver from Belgrade is on the highway to Nis, coming down from the highway, for example, to Mali Povorec and paying for the minimum amount of toll. Then he turns around and goes back on the highway with the card of that place. The driver who left Nis leaves at the Alexine spa, pays a small toll, turns around and enters the highway with the Alexina Bane card. These two drivers find themselves halfway across the road and switch cards. Now the driver who drives the highway from Nis has a Little Fireman card and pays a toll of only 200 to 300 dinars, and the driver from Belgrade does the same. This is talking about Serbia today. This might be funny, Mrs. Grubjesic, if in this way "Serbia's Ways" did not lose an annual million and 746m euros and that money would not make it up to the citizens of Serbia. The MPs sitting here and the citizens sitting at home watching this TV broadcast are probably getting baptized right now. In this way, Mr. Drobnjak, the same man who said when young lives were lost on the highway to Novi Sad – and the stairway would have seen pillars on the road, the same man who was looking at the highway from Novi Sad to Belgrade, which has not been since I crossed that highway. All of this you today have to justify here at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and tell the citizens, that is, SNS MPs, the SPS, look, there is no future minister here today, even though there is no current minister in the benches, to convince them to vote for this law. You have another role to play, which is to explain to the MPs the draft Act amending the Law on the Obligation of Health Services to Large Drugs on the basis of the purchase of medicines and medical material and the conversion of these obligations into public debt. However, you passed the same law at the end of last year, and the amount of that public debt was then 13 billion. What happened in the meantime? All of your volunteerism and ignorance has shown itself, because you probably trusted someone with a word, not you personally, but those who run finance in your government, that the government's commitment to large-scale drugs is 13 billion dinars, and it turns out to be less than five billion dinars, or four billion and 908 million dinars. What happened in the meantime to those eight billion dinars, if I'm counting correctly? How did that debt go down in the meantime? Just because that obligation wasn't 13 billion dinars at the time, someone, I don't know what reason, wrote that amount so that eventually the rest of the funds would be re-scheduled for some other positions. But in fact, I'm asking you for an answer as to what's the reason in the meantime it turns out to be a much smaller number, because in this explanation it doesn't say. In the end, Mrs Grubjesic, honourable MPs, I believe that these laws that came to the Assembly today, taking this budget rebalance that you voted on today, which showed that you do not know, or manage the state at all, and that everything you did when you adopted the budget was a mere speculation of people who do not know what they want, except that they rule Serbia, whose economy is not at all in the first place, are their chairs, party employment, party appointments, fight for functions, politicisation instead of depolitisation, politicisation, or destruction of independent institutions instead of respect for independent institutions and all that you promised to Serbian citizens and what you promised in the accession speech, so to say, the first minister, or president of the government, promised Serbian citizens when you came to power. Unfortunately, it's nothing. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens, too, have proven that this is a rotten coalition, that it will not last even in 2012, that you will now probably make another deception, some reconstruction that will be the fruit of pure political interference and that there will be no quality change and that we will enter in 2013 with holes on the roads, with holes in the budget, with holes in citizens' pockets. Unfortunately, we will not be a good partner of the EU, Mrs Grubjesic, or ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20627	It was used 15 minutes and 45 seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word in this part of the session and before the turn in line for the application for the word? No, I don't. ) We move to a part of the session when the right to speak is given by MPs in order and to apply for a word in the joint principle and uniform search of the proposals for the laws referred to in points 4, 5, 9 and 10 of the agenda. First reported was National MP Ivana Dinic, followed by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20628	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, is before us today also the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No. 1 The Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, aimed at improving bilateral relations and co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the two countries. In order to achieve this international agreement, it was necessary to remove procedural interference, which speaks undoubtedly of a great effort by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to open the borders of our economy to the economy of other countries. In fact, the promotion of the continued development of the Chinese-Serbian strategic partnership is not only for the benefit of Chinese-Serbian relations, but also for world peace, development and co-operation. Since the beginning of work, the government of the Republic of Serbia has realised the importance of exchanging experiences between the Republic of Serbia and its strategic partners, as well as potential strategic partners, seriousness and complementarity of economic and trade co-operation, common views on numerous international and territorial issues, opposition to the interference of other countries in internal policy. That is why the Republic of Serbia is on track to achieve a significant regional impact in political, economic, diplomatic and other spheres, as a very important country of the Western Balkans. We need to be aware that the accelerated EU accession process and with accelerated economic development, requirements for building infrastructure are increasing. Serbia is ready to make a positive effort to increase exports, attract foreign capital and develop the economy. The government of the Republic of Serbia signed an agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure with the Government of the People's Republic of China in 2009 which was the basis for the two countries' co-operation in different areas. Under the deal, the implementation of several joint projects provided by the Chinese EXIM bank's loan, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia guaranteed would be used exclusively for the payment of 85% of the value of the contract, as well as that credit funds could not be used to pay taxes, customs duties and other taxes, while the remaining 15% of the value of the contract was secured from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This bilateral co-operation resulted in the signing of the contract and the construction of the Belgrade bridge Zemun – Borca, with its associated traffic facilities, as well as other investments in traffic infrastructure, on the Obrenovac-Ljig section building project, the E763, the construction project of the Pojate-Preljina and the regional road Novi Sad – Ruma, but the energy infrastructure, which shows the project revitalisation of the blocks TE "Kostolac B", which requires further changes to Annex number 1. As the Ministry Act educated the current ministries and their work, the contracting authorities of this agreement, instead of the Ministry of National Investment Plan, took over the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and, accordingly, started the procedure for amending and supplementing Annex No. 1, the Economic and Technical Co-operation Agreement in the area of infrastructure, because of the need to amend the names of resolutions in charge of monitoring and implementing this agreement. This law needs to be passed by emergency procedure because the implementation of the Zemun Bridge project is under way. When, on the other hand, we consider the justification of the priorities of the implementation of these projects in the next period, we need to understand that the short-term economic effect is 76.5m euros for domestic construction firms and construction material producers, which will be employed as subcontractors. As for the long-term economic effects, which are moving towards improving bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, conditions are being created for the development of housing, business and other content, as well as the necessary infrastructure. It is of particular environmental importance that by shifting heavy freight traffic, it reduces noise and emissions of harmful gases, which affects environmental protection. The realisation of the Zemun Bridge project – Borca is also of great infrastructure importance, as it is a regional link between Belgrade and South Banat, which strategically connects to Corridor 4 and Romania, while a better traffic connection has been reached for more than half a million residents of Belgrade's municipalities -- Zemun, Palilula and New Belgrade. Due to all these positive effects, both economic, environmental, technical, and infrastructure, the SPS will support this draft law confirming Annex No 1 of the Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20629	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. After him, MP Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20630	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating the beginning of negotiations with the EU. The LDP parliamentary group will not support the bill, which makes the JP "Serb Roads" mandatory by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and obligations towards companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and the conversion of these obligations into public debt by the Republic of Serbia, as the law said in the name of this proposal. Why won't we support the bill? These reasons are both political and legal. When we talk about political reasons, I can say that the best example of the haughtiness of this JP, said Minister Dinkic, who said that in December 2012, in a conversation with JP representatives "The Ways of Serbia", it was concluded that the state of Serbia needed to take over five billion dinars of all the JP's obligations to other firms. Six months after that, itJP comes back here to the Serbian Parliament to demand that we pass a law that the Serbian government, or our budget, assumes a commitment to another 1,300,000 dinars to other firms, without explaining why again 1,300,000? According to whom, 300,000 thousand? Based on what contracts? Why isn't this 1,300,000 shown in December when we did something similar and made a commitment of 5,000,000 dinars? We also cannot support this politically because we need to pass a law that is somewhat contrary to the Law on Public Enterprises. I will also remind you and the public of Serbia that according to the Law on Public Enterprises, one member that amended the LDP has introduced the obligation of any JP that has subsidies, either directly or indirectly, to form a plan for the spending of these subsidies, as well as a reorganisation plan, which should lead to the level of subsidies in the next period being lower. Has JP "Serbian Ways" done such a spending program? Has JP "Serbia's Roads" done such a rationalisation, a rationalisation program of its business? Today, a budget rebalancing is being adopted where a 6.000,000,000 dinar grant of JP "Serb Roads" has been foreseen. We absolutely do not know how these 6,000,000 dinars will be spent, and it is the legal obligation of the JP to deliver it to the Ministry of Finance, so to the Ministry of Transport and, most importantly, to publish on its site, in order to make it available to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This only shows how this system of public enterprises is in Serbia and how it works. It works beyond the rules established by this congregation. Most importantly, these are rules that involve party governance of public enterprises, and no rules that mean some European standards. Also, when we talk about this JP "Serbian Roads", I have a decision to coordinate the business of JP for managing state roads with the Law on Public Enterprises. This decision was made by the Serbian government on 20 May 2013. Why is that interesting? It is interesting because the Serbian government had to make this decision by 26 February 2013. Three months after the set deadline, the government decided to bring the founding act "The Way of Serbia" into line with the Law on Public Enterprises. What kind of heavenly force has prevented the Serbian government from making this decision for three months? But what is in the decision itself is scandalous is the last member of the 46th decision, which says - the Supervisory Board will coordinate the statutes of the public enterprise with this decision within 15 days of the date of the establishment of the Supervisory Board. I am a member of this 46th decision is contrary to the Law on Public Enterprises. The law on public enterprises clearly states that public enterprises are obliged to bring their statutes into line with the founding acts 30 days after the decision of their founder. How, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, do you think anyone in Serbia respects any law if you do not have the strength, will or anything else to respect those laws that you yourself have proposed and this assembly of the Serbian Parliament adopted? What 15 days since the Board of Supervisors was established? Was that, as we heard about the launch of competitions for the director of public enterprises, decisions or opinions of the Legislative Committee of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It's just the haughtiness of this ruling coalition. Speaking of the Supervisory Board, we spoke of Mr. Bojan Djuric as our representative of the parliamentary group -- yesterday we received information that the Management Board of the Public Enterprise is "The Ways of Serbia" which held a session at which he made some decisions. Which board of directors? According to the Law on Public Enterprises, the boards of directors of public enterprises no longer exist. There's only got to be committee surveillance. Why did the Serbian Government not appoint the Public Enterprise Supervisory Board "The Ways of Serbia", which would have five members, according to the law, where one member would be independent, or, as we usually say, an expert on the area, and only then come with a bill on taking over debts? If we are already talking about the appointment of supervisory committees, I will remind the Deputy Prime Minister that the Republic of Serbia is the founder of 35 public enterprises. For none of these public undertakings, the managing authority has been in line with the Law on Public Enterprises. So there are still administrative and supervisory committees. In this way, you as a government, as a ruling coalition, do not think of you personally, cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia 60 million dinars per year. Sixty million dinars The Serbian government pays those governing bodies that do not exist. It's 230 pensioners, a year can receive an average pension of 23,000 dinars. Well, that's the haughtiness. You don't want to respect the law, but who pays that the Serbian government doesn't respect the law? They pay the citizens. Then we come into a situation where you threaten citizens, privates, employers, why they don't pay taxes, why they don't pay some other obligations to the state, and when I say the state, I mean the government of Serbia, it doesn't respect the laws that this assembly has passed. Speaking of non-compliance with the law, there is the same strange situation with the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". It is the only company that does not pay VAT in the Republic of Serbia, and here we say that one of the priorities of this government, the ruling coalition, the fight against corruption, respect for the law, rule of law, etc. So what are we going to call insubordination of the Public Enterprise Act? Is that the rule of law? Are those European Union standards? Minister Dinkic, yesterday, says that as far as he is concerned, did so in the process of respecting the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, but that there are parties in the ruling coalition that do not want to do so, because the departisation of public enterprises is not close to them. Well, we're not talking here about the need, the will, the desire of an individual, some political party, that he loves or doesn't like the department. Do we respect the law or don't we respect the law? If we're already arresting some for corruption, for crime, then let's start by following the law. You, as the Serbian government, have appointed boards in five public enterprises over the past four months. Based on what law did you do it? Under what law did you name the board of directors, for example "Srbigas"? This is where you appointed the chairman of the Management Board, vice president of the Serbian Progressive Party, otherwise Mayor Kruševec. Is he the independent expert, who should be a member of the governing body? Under what law did you call the board of directors "Serbishum"? Then, on top of all that, you come here, asking that the Serbian government, that is, the budget, that is, the citizens of Serbia, assume the payment of the debts of the Public Enterprise "Serbian Ways", of that public enterprise that does not operate in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's the haughtiness of the ruling coalition, and most importantly, that way, you send a message to both Serbian citizens and representatives of the international community about your credibility. When I first congratulated you on the start of negotiations with the EU, that start will hopefully begin in January, but by January we need to fulfil some of the obligations we have made, I hope that you will not behave in accordance with your behaviour, when you need to respect the Law on Public Enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20631	Twelve minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. After her, the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20632	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Mrs Grubjesic, in a situation where revenues are predicted to be less than 10% of what is foreseen and in a situation where the budget deficit is projected to be higher by 56 billion, if I am not mistaken, we are discussing today, that we raise the level of public debt by another six billion dinars. The state is burdening citizens with the obligations of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", according to other toll companies, and also assumes the obligations of health institutions towards large-scale drugs. Mrs Grubjesic, I ask you – do you really think this way the law, or problem that is much bigger than this, which this law provides will be solved? Of course it won't be solved. You know why? Because we, based on this law that we are discussing today, do not know exactly what kind of road company is owed to, no amount is owed, and how can we define at all the amount of the total debt of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", according to the travel companies, when we do not have a single document that speaks of what is the public debt that we are adopting today. I don't think that's very serious. Of course, the problem will not be solved permanently, neither because no analysis has been made, as it is possible that in Serbia billions and billions of dinars are spent on road maintenance, and that many of the roads in Serbia look like, or are on their way, on a good path to becoming a caldrum. This, of course, will not be solved permanently, precisely because we do not know whether the law is applied in this area, how the law is applied, without these basic parameters, we cannot solve the problem in this way. Because the easiest thing to do is to do what the government is proposing, which is that according to the debtors today, the National Assembly declares that all obligations of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" are to be taken over by citizens on their own burden. Don't have any illusion. We're not voting for this for the reasons I've put forward. At the end of last year, in fact in December 2012, we discussed here the Law on the Taking of Obligations of Health Institutions to Large Drugs. One of the basic reasons for my parliamentary group, which is why we didn't vote for this law, is that we didn't have a clear paper in front of us to whom it is owed, how much it is owed, and who guarantees us that the level of public debt that we adopted at the time would be that much. We didn't get an answer to that question. We insisted on amendments and individual debates, but there was nothing of it, and today we have a situation that this law that we adopted earlier in December 2012, we are changing and changing it today in the part in which the DSS MPs have warned that the government does not know what the debt of a health institution is to large-scale drugs. We felt then that there was nothing more natural than knowing and that when we passed that law we would get a list of all the debtors, that we would get a list of all the institutions that owed the wholesalers to know what level of public debt we were talking about. Of course, that's what we're going through and we're correcting these mistakes today, but I say we're just fixing it right now. I remember that this law had one member, and it seems to me that it is the same as Article 5, which is provided for in this bill, which predicted that the Government would establish by some subsequent act the amount of each individual claim of wholesalerry to health institutions. Then it led us to think, to the conclusion, that at that moment the government did not know at all how much actual health institutions owed to the wholesales and on the basis of which parameters it then determined the amount of total debt that the National Assembly had adopted. What we talked about back then and what we pointed out turned out to be true today. Today we have the same law on the agenda, but with a significantly different amount of public debt to adopt. Instead of 13 billion, we are now talking about five billion dinars. When it comes to this second bill of law, the draft law on the taking over of the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" seems to be making the same mistake. It's precisely because a debt of about one billion and 350 million dinars is taken over without knowing what kind of toll company is owed and on the basis of which documents we can now adopt this bill. It's a very unserious approach to a very serious problem. We're not talking here today about whether or not we're gonna raise money to buy one plane ticket. We are talking about increasing Serbia's public debt by significant funds. I really can't believe that with such insecureness, you can approach the design and intention of adopting such a single text. You know why this approach is even more unserious? It is more serious because in this same law, which is apparently a type law, like the one we adopted in December of last year, Article 5 says that the government will subsequently determine the height of each individual claim by the travel company. That then leads me to conclude that the government doesn't even know what the amount we're supposed to adopt here is. That's the inconclusiveness that we treat in every field when any area of social life is at stake, and I think at least the rebalancing we've adopted should warn us that it's a very serious matter. A much bigger problem than this, which I'm talking about today, is a question that doesn't seem right to me today, and that's the question of how do "Serbia's Ways work"? Do you, Mrs Grubjesic, know that in Serbia billions and billions of dinars are investing in road maintenance and that we have not actually had a single tender, not a single tender, I repeat, nor has the Public Procurement Act been applied. Is that possible? Does anyone in this country take it seriously? Do you know what a failure it is? Not a single tender so far. Do you know, Mrs Grubjesic, I apologize for speaking to you personally, but I expected it to be Mr Dinkic or Mr Mrkonjic, that "Serbian Ways" work on the basis of the 1992 contract, here's the deal. The name of the contract is the Treaty on the Functioning of the Workers' and Regional Roads. The 1992 contract, today in 2013, was annexed several times. Do you, Mrs Grubjesic, know that maintaining roads in Serbia today is the most expensive and that the number of car accidents in Serbia is drastic? Also, I have information, which is public information published on the "Road of Serbia" site that in 2003, a tender was contracted by the World Bank, which was financed by the World Bank's funds, which was related to two territory pilots – Machva and Kolubara, which was realised and which showed that savings, if everything in the road economy were based on it, could be more than 50% compared to the contract that the road companies are working on today. What happened to all the people who said it was necessary? They're gone in "Serbian Ways". Where are they today? Does anyone in this country care? This tells us that there are, and how, places to save. It is important that the government, that the state deal seriously with this problem. It is important to analyse what is the most important issue today, when we talk about this law, how money is spent in "Serbian Ways"? A very important question for this debate is that – why is the maintenance of roads in Serbia today the most expensive? The most expensive is because we make the worst roads today, and those worst roads cost the most. We don't respect basic standards and basic principles when it comes to making one. If the bottom floor is not done properly, so the bottom asphalt is reduced further, then it should not be surprised that in about six to seven months, the same path will be rescheduled. Can we conclude on the basis of how much it costs to make one metre of road in Serbia? We can't because the investment costs a fortune. It's impossible to calculate. It is well - known how much of this activity someone is earning in this country. It's very well known that if the deblin of asphalt decreases by one centimeter per mile, then the investor is damaged by a million to one million and 200 thousand dinars, in the ordinary road. On the highway, the amount of damage could reach 100,000 euros. Is anyone in this country interested? How much we could save and how much we could make roads, best since 2001-2012, let me take that period, best shows one comparative analysis of Serbia and Croatia during that period. Since 2001-2012, 36.5km of full profile highway and 260km of semi-road for about 1,300,000 euros have been built in Serbia. In this same period, since 2001-2012, 581.4km of highways have been built in Croatia and cost all three billion euros. Isn't this information telling us that it's high time the state started seriously thinking about starting to analyze what's going on in "Serbian Ways"? I am glad that the issue has been resolved, which the toll will not accumulate, because it would be completely incorrect in relation to the quality and condition of our roads and that transit traffic through Serbia would be drastically reduced, as foreigners would no longer use our highway. A much greater attraction would have been given to Corridor Four through Romania. I would also very much like to address the debt issue "The Way of Serbia", when it comes to non-payment of VAT of about 200m euros. I'd be very happy to get rid of it, but I wouldn't be happy to get rid of it the way we're dealing with JP's "Serbian Roads" to travel companies today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20633	Twelve minutes and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Dusan Milisavljevic, five minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20634	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, today's topic is very interesting, I have been talking about this topic for several months, and it is corruption in health care. I think this debt that turns some amazing formula, some miracle wand from 13 billion to five billion dinars, leaves me with the sum of possible corruption. At the very beginning, I call on the Republic Public Prosecutor to examine how eight billion dinars have disappeared from this account. Who so magically did this one debt? Eight billion dinars is the budget of the City of Nis. It's a huge amount of money that someone, by my guess, wanted to leave in their facilities and waste them unintentionally on certain means. This requires a very serious analysis and I, as a national MP, and this way I call the Republic Public Prosecutor to examine this case, to see what clinics have done and why they made artificial claims from the Republic Fund, so that after that, public debt would be made to the citizens of Serbia. This is a very important topic. Over this topic, I, as a People's MP, do not want to cross over. I think there are both elements of criminal responsibility here. We say health corruption is present, I tell you it's from the lowest level, from bringing coffee and schnapps to doctors and candy doctors, to paying for the entrance to the O.R., and I think it's the biggest systemic corruption associated with some people in the Republic Health Insurance Fund and some senior staff at the Ministry of Health. Let these masks fall once, let's see what a group of rules are and make those debts, why these debts want to be transferred to the expense of Serbian citizens and that our poor people are paying for some potential crime. This is a topic I'm not going to get over so easily. The question suggested by healthcare institutions was, from the fund – please state how long it is for health institutions according to large drugstores. That's not the real question. The real question that the Republic Fund should have referred to is – how much do you owe to large-scale drugs above the permit of the Republic Health Insurance Fund? Do you understand one suggestive question that went from the Republic Fund to health institutions? I repeat, a suggested statement – how many health institutions do they owe to wholesales? Then people knocked up those debts, instead of the question being, since every health institution has a limit from the Republic Fund, how much can it spend over the year and the real question should have been – how much do you owe to large-scale drugs, past the permit of the Republic Health Insurance Fund? This is a question and advice to the Republic Public Prosecutor, to examine why it was suggested in the wrong way, to get some wrong information and to make a 13 billion-dollar debt. The 13-billion-long debt today decreased by a magic wand to five billion, because it went into a clear analysis, to see where that money was. Speaking of corruption, what I want to tell you is that I would ask you a question - why are they sitting down and why is 680,000 doses of vaccines not being destroyed against that famous flu and that famous vaccine affair? They're still standing. Em, we paid them, we convinced the people to vaccinate even though it wasn't then, at that point, I needed those vaccines to stand. I ask: Why are they standing? The European Union has made clear its resources for the destruction of medical waste. Why isn't it destroyed and why is it waiting? Are you waiting to create another possible corruption and abuse of the position to destroy these vaccines? The third topic, when we talk about corruption, such as potential corruption and these eight billion that magically disappear, is good that they disappear, but that they should have ended up in the accounts of some people or that the abuse of the position of some individuals in some hospitals is being verified. I think we need to go far more seriously into the fight against healthcare corruption. Corruption exists, I'm talking about different types of corruption. I think that we need to free the health care from these anthems about this corruption. I'm just suggesting that the biggest corruption is systemic corruption and we can't keep it quiet and we can't turn our backs on it. Maybe it's interesting to the people when you arrest a doctor for 200, 300 euros, but here we're talking about eight billion dinars, that someone wanted to put it away. I'm really calling this my real name. I have a very high suspicion that this is about the abuse of the position of individuals in the Republic Fund and the Ministry of Health. For the third time, I call on the Republic Public Prosecutor to examine this and inform the public of Serbia. Since we've slowly crossed that 14-hour time zone, I won't bother fellow MPs, seeing as the chairman is sending me a look to finish my presentation. I'll finish, and I'll continue after 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20635	I'm setting a break on the basis of article 87 and we're terminating work in the morning part of the session. The afternoon section continues at 15.00 hours. The first registered MP, Judita Popovic, will have a word, followed by MP Milos Aligrudic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20636	We're continuing our work. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20637	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Minister Mrkonjic is not here with us. I think you'd be a much more suitable person to talk to about such a serious subject as the one that's on the agenda. Whatever. I believe you will deliver all our messages from this assembly room. The point is that Serbia is paved the way for the song and the game of singer Anna Bekuta, and in the meantime it is known that Serbia is very in charge, that it has achieved a loss of 63 billion in 2012, that "The Ways of Serbia" and that the great burden for the budget, that this budget rebalancing has been granted six billion dinar subsidies, that now the public debt is being turned into a billion and a half dinar debt, that corridors 10 are being built by not paying people an expropriation fee, so that the Grdice citizens are protesting, even though the police are seeking their basic right to that country that was taken from them to receive compensation. Serbia today has a public debt of over 60% of GDP. Yesterday, the minister spoke of a public debt of 60% of GDP in 2000. It was considered very favourable for today's debt height, since it still does not stand at 160%. However, he forgot to note that the 160% of GDP of public debt was made with his current coalition partners. So it would be good to talk about history somehow, talk about how and who made this debt, and then it would be much clearer what is happening to us today, and it would be much clearer that such mistakes should not be repeated and that in fact one country can learn from its mistakes of bad politicians and bad policies. When we talk about "Serbian Ways", it is very obvious that we have 10,000 to 15,000 workers here who pose a serious threat, if they lose their jobs in terms of the voting machine, citizens who will need to vote for certain political options tomorrow... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It is clear why it remains with these subsidies to public enterprises. It is clear why such hot potatoes are avoided by regulation of the public sector and public enterprises. It is clear why there is no question of the historical responsibility of all those who have brought the state back 20 years into this state where it is, in a state of recession, in a state of general destruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20638	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20639	I'll talk about this amendment to the Law on the Obligation of Health Institutions and High Drugs. So, as children today would like to express themselves, you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia are a show. You have brought, the majority of the assembly on your request, this law on the taking over of obligations of health institutions according to large drug supply and medical materials and public debt conversion. Serbian to translate for those watching, various institutions of health, hospitals and other health centres have obtained drugs and health materials from wholesalers, trade in large drugs and other materials, and their purchases have not been paid. They didn't pay because they didn't have the money. Then they gave it to them on faith and how much time had passed then the wholesalers and other companies dealing with the distribution or sale of different medical materials had to look for money in court, and the court, as we all know, was very slow in us and it could lead to a complete blockade of the health system and threatened to lead to absolute blockade. So on the one hand, this law that you've passed was necessary because on a short time to react otherwise no one would even know. But that law is the reason, at least for us at the DSS, to ask the question of responsibility for the situation we are in, but even before we ask the question of responsibility, we have to offer a solution. Because this solution that's given here, I repeat, is in a physical sense necessary. So there's no choice. Because what other method would be for the hospital market to be supplied with drugs and medical material? The question arises – what should we do in the future? In the future, let's wait until there's no money to re-establish the amount of money that needs to be converted into a public debt, so that it can be paid to hospitals and health institutions, to settle the debt to large-scale drugstores. So it's an absolutely impossible situation and this is absolutely unsustainable. To clarify even more Serbia – who does that concern? Every one of us who is employed and who works for health insurance, all those who watch us, if they work, if they're lucky to work in this country, and if they work legally, if they're registered where they work, they pay for health insurance. Our entire health system is designed to ensure that health insurance is enough for these health care facilities to settle. The budget is there to intervene extremely, as budget laws have long been forecasting for years, in those proportions and in those appraisals that predict it. Our entire system is based on the assumption that health insurance works phenomenally. If health care institutions owe to those who need to deliver drugs of abnormal money now, then we'll talk about numbers, then that means that what the citizens so far have set aside for health insurance or didn't end up where they need to go, or someone stole it. There's no third. There's no third. In translation, when we now pass a law like this, it means that we from taxpayers, the same citizens who pay off health insurance, take extra money to settle this debt that was supposed to be settled earlier, based on our health insurance. I don't know if there's anyone here who can tell me it's normal? So I don't have a better solution than this right now. But I have a better solution for the future. I can call the stenograms and not repeat it, but, for the sake of the public, that should be told. Let's get back to the law right now, so I'll give you a solution in the end. You were in the law to predict that this debt that we, citizens, all of us, need is to return to the big drugstores and we've already paid it, that it's 13 billion dinars. Now you're saying in your shift that it's not 13 billion dinars, but four billion 908 million, etc., something small. I'll remind you one thing, why I said in the beginning that you're a show, and now I'm going to explain to you -- because we submitted the amendment, from the DSS, when we passed the previous law, to amend the Article 2 that you're changing here and here, and let's say that "the component of this law is the records of all debts of health institutions according to wholesales, institutions and majors, which will be delivered to the National Assembly by 31. 12. In 2012, "and the total amount of commitments will be the total debt and there will be no additional costs. What did this member of the law really mean? He meant to avoid embarrassing what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing today, acknowledging that it had no idea how much public debt it owed to the wholesalers at the time of the adoption of this law. This deadline in the amendment was extremely relative, it could have been on 1 March 2013, it doesn't matter at all, but we wanted to at least make this amount quantifiable. What would make us do that? This would make us publicly, through a document that must end up in the National Assembly, determine the responsibility of those who took the money. This is how it's still going to be an obscenity number. So we don't know who these people are, it's a dark number, not how many there are, not who they are, not what they're in, not what they're doing. Who's ever gonna find out? It's very important, and you missed it. I'm not saying that you had an evil intention, but I guess you think - the amendment comes from the ranks of the opposition, it's beating up empty straw, who's cutting your hair. You finally found out, and it's in the light of this bill that you've passed, that there's a lot of things here, that you've found this debt isn't this big. However, reading that same argument still does not make it clear why it is not 13 billion but is four billion and 908 million. You mentioned that there are some institutions that have not been considered, so you subsequently included them for a relatively small amount compared to this total amount. Then you found that some had charged their debts, that some were in bankruptcy, so it had to be removed, that some had received an executive court title, etc. But all of that when it's collected from that argument, it doesn't reach this difference between four billion and 908 million and up to 13 billion. I don't understand how you made it to 8.9 billion. I don't get it? Someone would have to explain that to me. You probably can't do that right now, but that's the whole point. I know you can't do that, but you need a consulate around you to perform this math, to do a presentation on the panorama to watch it for the next three hours, to figure out what it is. That's exactly what we've been telling you all along, that in this way you can't write the law, no matter what we realize that it was necessary, and obviously in the extortion, where you couldn't have done otherwise, but don't at least make the rules that we're going to laugh about each other about, or us, or you, as well as the citizens after not eight months of adoption of the first regulation. The other thing--what do you do? This is what I'm gonna end this story with. They repeat what I said before – this health insurance system cannot sustain itself. We're a crisis country, we're poor, and there's no coastal crisis. So, under these circumstances, the division of liability in mandatory insurance between the private and state sectors, regulated by precise norms and license systems, is an irreplaceable thing. Such a system cannot afford itself, and healthcare users cannot pay twice or three times the same from their otherwise impoverished pocket. We must finally understand that. I asked him to move into those reforms. I don't care who's gonna carry them out. You guys take 'em out. Here, let it be our little credit for all we've suggested. You carry them out, because it's important to put an end to this insurrection and this scandal that's been going on here for years and decades. You do it. If we are in a position, hopefully within a few months, to participate in the Government of the Republic of Serbia after new elections, then we will certainly do so. But here's what you do now, start. Do something useful for these citizens, that they can normally go, that they do not wait for rows a mile, as in the case of Novi Sad, that they do not have to pay twice for the same health care service, for the same examination, once in the afternoon, twice in the afternoon, and most of the afternoon with the same doctors who send them to themselves in the morning, etc. So let's make one system that is responsible and similar to some other countries that are EU members or some of the federal states of the United States that have it correctly resolved, with full responsibility and with full obligation to protect the constitutional norm that guarantees the right to public health protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20640	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20641	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, I will repeat repeatedly that we are sorry that there is no one here who can give more details, first of all when it comes to "The Ways of Serbia", but I have a first and foremost need to thank you for being here with us today. I believe that during this period of difficult negotiations, agreements, travel and talks about Serbia's European future, gymnastics was to find time to meet us here today. Also, given that in years ago, regardless of differences, we shared these European values, unlike the vast majority of your ruling coalition, I would like to congratulate you on Serbia's progress so far on the way to the EU. On this road to the EU, you know that perhaps even better from direct communication with people from the IPP who today are predominantly ruling Europe, public finances, corporate debt, the state's commitment must be done in a much more serious way than we have done years ago, regardless of who makes the ruling coalition, but in particular I have to point out that in the last year, not that there has been a shift in all this, but the matter is even worse. When we see that a seven billion dinar error has been made in the Law on Taking Obligations of Health Institutes to Large Drugs last year, some over seven billion dinars, a logical question arises -- how is public finances being conducted in this country, and how is the government dealing with all these problems in the public finance crisis? Personally, it seems to me that the government is very indivisible and with a marked absence of courage dealing with the public finances and debts of this country. This is witnessed by the fact that we four billion euros are additionally in charge, and that when the public finances problem arises, part of the government, from itself, is being attacked by your party colleague, through the tabloids, defending itself and trying to carry the burden on him alone. Of course, we'll be against these laws. I have reported for one local reason today and you are doing, so to speak, European affairs in the government and you know how important it is that in your communication Serbia improves the image of a country that is stable for foreign investment, stable when it comes to business, in order for our people to get a job, which is the problem that is above all of us. Today, when the state and we are bringing the Law on Taking Obligations of Health Institutions to Greater Drugs, where, as I said, a mistake is made, where it is not calculated in the right way, which is not surprising, because we are a state in which even a small graduation from mathematics cannot be organised, please, as Minister of Government, and I address myself as a Vrscanin, we have a promise from the highest state level, the current, investor who is a bloodthirsty housewife in our city, it is a "Stada", who has taken over the "Hemofarm" and which is one stable firm that serves us all, whose high-priced businesses owe a few dozen million euros. It is also a promise of current state leadership to resolve this matter. I don't have to tell you, as European Integration Minister, what a pity it would be to have one such investor, after a promise from the highest level in this country that this problem will be solved, accidentally go to another destination and find better conditions for himself. If there's something good about all these laws that are on the agenda today, maybe it's a fact, that there's no constant criticism, that in some expenditures, there's room for savings and there's no need for this government to continue with the genocide of the pockets of citizens, that is, by constantly dragging its hand into their pockets. If you increase VAT to 20%, if you increase all the burdens on citizens, if all the items, all the budget revenues on the basis of all these increased taxes fall, if people start buying at the markets, the economy starts moving to the gray, black zone, we'll have more of these laws. We are entering, I hope, from that date in January into a much more dynamic process when the state of Serbia is concerned and when it comes to its accession to the EU. I'm skeptical that this government will be able to do it quickly enough for this country to reach certain standards as soon as possible. The government that is unable to calculate and fail by seven billion dinars of debt is not a government that neither on the ground nor in life deals with how to properly service the needs of citizens. It's the same with the toll companies. What happened? Where were those funds spent? Where was more debt made than what was foreseen by the business programme? We can't treat citizens that way. I call upon you, you are only one member of the government, but I call upon the entire government in this European spirit to keep everyone in mind, to stop with the truffles, to stop quasi ballerinas in public enterprises, to stop getting their hands in the citizens' pocket, to keep this law from happening to us, to be braver and more determined in what you have to do for Serbia, to replace all those who cannot organise a small graduation, who give the land of "Luke Belgrade" to tycoons, who rule this country's tabloids, as your party chief tells us. We invite you to work together with us, whose criticisms are always in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, that this law does not happen to us. No luck, and we're all responsible for this in a country where a gas distribution company deals with the production of chickens, in which eight billion of us miss out on debts. There's no luck in which the deficit of rebalancing is increased by 44%. You are a minister who communicates with European leaders and you know that in every country in Europe, by ten times the entire government would be shaken. Once again, thank you for making time to speak on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20642	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20643	Dear Mrs Grubjesic, when I say esteemed Mrs Grubjesic, dear Madam Minister, I don't mean respected -- courtoasia works, it's really worth respecting the minister's work. As bad a government as it may be, there is always some pearl in that government whose work is to be respected and whose results are measurable, tangible and valuable. I am sorry, as my colleague Ljuban Panic spoke, this few SNS MPs for a reason were looking at the country and the road, but the words of his criticism refused them. What to say about this new hand-to-hand thing in the pocket of Serbian citizens? What to say about today's disgrace that is imposed today in this House, where we are trying to save a public enterprise by pushing our hand into the citizens' pocket and asking us to be accomplices to it? Of course we won't be complicit or voting for it. I don't know where Minister Mrkonjic is now, the minister of traffic, I expected him. I don't know why you brought this good minister to sit here. Don't be angry, Mrs Grubjesic, I will really ignore your presence because this is not a subject I can argue with you about, without the intention of being rude in any way, but I will have to ignore that you are here and all the questions I have will be asked exclusively by the largest foreign ruling coalition in Serbia. First I ask you, where is Minister Mrkonjic? Have you changed it yet? Have you already reconstructed the government, it's already gone? Well, if he's not here, you could have brought one of those estradial stars over here to talk to them, because the roads here are paved and maintained thanks to the songs and the adventurous stars. Hold on to the concert. What are you nervous about? As soon as you care about the truth, the subject. Is the topic in the travel industry? Yes, it is. Is the state of travel well? It's not. Is it catastrophic? Yes, it is. Are you responsible for that? Yes, it is. Shut up and look at the floor and take notes, because you should look into the road and be ashamed of yourself. So, the topic is the Public Road Company and the fact that 1.35 billion of the debt of the road company is being transferred to the back of Serbian citizens. It's a theme, which doesn't make it clear that it's a theme, so ask your colleague to turn off the reflectors because he's skilled at not bothering you, not blinding you, so listen slowly. A hiducia like this, we have not yet witnessed in Serbia, we have not seen such a burazer economy. We haven't been to this yet. So, on April 1st, instead of April, you gave us the bill to owe 11.5m euros to travel companies. Of course, I understand your concern for the road economy, I don't know why you don't have any such concern for the IT sector, in the IT sector. Why in another sector that the state also owes you do not show this understanding but exclusively for the toll companies. What do I have on me, in my hands? So I have what you gave us on April 1st, a report by JP "The Way of Serbia" where I have notes with a financial report, and when I look at that regular financial report only from the toll company made a profit last year, i.e. the income did not earn because it goes to the state of Serbia, 120m euros, some of the taxes were also well-provided in millions of euros. Now the citizens of Serbia for you who are used to the party that promises 100m euros in foreign investment, there are very easy to read for millions, hundreds of millions and dozens of millions of euros, compared to what 120m euros it is. This way, if you Serbian citizens are watching this now, you succeed daily, I say you manage to save 1,000 euros a day thanks to this government, but assume you can save 1,000 euros, in a year you have 365,000 euros, in 10 years 3,650,000 euros. Now imagine how much 120,000,000 euros is, it's huge, it's money, it's the JP's of Serbia only from toll. However, few of them also receive from the state's donations of about 1,600,000 euros, from excise duties, from vehicle registration. There's 10,000 people in these toll companies, that's not small. What are these road companies familiar with, and what is the first association after oak when I say the way? What do you think first after the oak when you say highway? Think that several people were killed on a payment ramp in Novi Sad and that the director of the company said – who is to blame that they do not see well at night. What else do you think when you say road company? Think of it as the people who said these days that they wouldn't pay VAT and that they didn't think of paying VAT. The fact was not paid by VAT and when we managed this country, but when they got a warning that they had to pay VAT, they said they wouldn't, but we're going to charge the VAT due to 200,000 euros by transferring that burden to Serbian citizens, so we're going to increase the toll price by 20%. You looking at the floor for a reason do you know how you left Serbia's travel economy last time? Bridges destroyed, destroyed in NATO bombing, roads broken down, in three years' time you ruled Serbia except for destroying everything and destroying it, you haven't paved a foot. When I left Kruševac for Valjevo for a rally against you in 1999, I traveled seven hours. After NATO aggression from Kruševac to Belgrade, I went eight hours, now I pass that road in an hour and 45 minutes. I don't know how it's going to be at the end of your term, but do you know that a bridge has been built between Bulgaria and Romania, and do you know that there are no lines at the border crossings, on the tolls? Did you know that some genius from your ranks ordered a payment ramp to be renovated in the middle of the tourist season on Bubanj Potok? Look, there was a nice time both in May and June but no, on July 1st, a payment ramp was renovated to make it a good crowd, to keep good people waiting, to remember that time when we were standing in line for sugar, oil, gasoline, which we wouldn't wait on toll. I know you're only flying to Europe, and you're not going through Karlobag, Ogulin, Karlovac and Virovitica because these cities are already in the EU, but I'm asking you to take a ride on those official roads when you go abroad and see how much tolls in the EU look like when we're trying so hard. See what tolls between Bulgaria and Romania look like. It may be a longer road between Bulgaria and Romania, but it is much faster. Think about it because Serbia is no longer even a transit area. All the trucks from the Middle East are going that way. If you are watching, you who boast that you are from eastern Serbia, when you go a little to Negotina, look at the Danube and see some ship loaded with trucks that say "Vili Bec". Some man with a huge number of trucks, Europe's largest carrier, no longer passes trucks through Serbia. It has nothing to do with you, it is immediately understood, I am not transferring it to you, it is not your fault, but the fact that it is cheaper for him to load all the trucks and faster and more efficiently onto the ship and carry them through Serbia than to take the highways and pay the tolls and wait on the payment ramps. Should I tell you what the 4th of July said the other day on Fighter's Day to the JP Management Board "The Ways of Serbia"? He said – we will review and find a way to respect the Ministry of Finance's decision and we will pay VAT with the finding of a model to do so. This is said by a public company at the moment when you announce a government reconstruction and a shift among the directors of public enterprises. Look, I'll tell you again, you didn't hear right. Come on, who's gonna write it down from you? The Management Board will respect the Ministry of Finance's decision and we will pay the VAT with a model of how we will do so and inform the authorities as soon as possible. There's no such thing in the Cossack's congregation. It has nothing to do with democracy. Here, as a colleague in charge of reflectors would say - there is no in Budenstag either. Now I'm asking you -- do you want to replace these people when there's a government reconstruction? You want that minister replaced? You want to replace that minister who paves the way in the municipality of Gornji Milanovac by making the first payment of donations to the NGO "Brojanica" whose head is, behold, Ana Bekuta, so when a certain amount of money lies on the current account of the NGO "Brojanica" with everything VAT then we can hope for asphalt. I know that there are those in this room who say that asphalt doesn't rub on bread and patriotism doesn't pour into tractors, but fighting corruption doesn't lead like this either. Do you agree with me on that? Yeah, here's one guy who said he was, and there's one of you who gets what I'm saying right where it's supposed to be. Now I ask the citizens of Serbia when you get there to pay the toll and come and see that nice man and pay the toll, the German when he pays the toll he knows he's put into a budget that will be used for retirement, social, treatment. The German pension fund owns highways in Germany. When you pay your toll there you pay your country and it grows. Do we know who we pay the toll when we pay the toll here? Does this citizen of ours who pays that toll know that he put it in the wallet of the Serbian state, in the vault, in the cash register or feels like someone put his hand in his pocket? Do I need to remind you that the first public alert from the payment ramps didn't get any protection, but he also got fired. I don't know if he got fired during my government. During my government, he certainly alerted the public and it was processed and this government forgot, the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic prosecuted you and under the law of confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, which you did not vote for, because you are afraid of your property, you did not vote for that law, you cannot explain why you did not vote for the law on confiscation of property acquired by crime. Under that law, we took away the property during the term of our government. Of course, when we talk about roads, do you remember what it was like in November of the month? Had it not been for Deputy Prime Minister Vukic, if he had driven the tanks on their way, to get the buses out, they would have been waiting for the Serbian New Year, Christmas and Vidovdan, there on the roads. The tanks had to draw your paths. Has anyone seen these numerous experts from the Ministry, in charge of traffic and travel, flying Mercedes with rotating lights 200 an hour, driving, so police stop them at Jagodina, have they seen anyone with shovels, cleaning their way? They couldn't run into Zajecar as if it were a campaign for the director of the Serbian Roads, not for Mayor Zaječar. I don't know how they used their boxer gloves to drive those blinded Mercedeses, 'cause a little bit, a little bit, so they beat somebody up over there. I have a few more questions for you that are very unpleasant. Whether this is a public entity in a blockade or not. If it is in the blockade, was that blockade cut by 150 million dinars the other day? If so, you want to tell me how many cars have to pass daily to Serbia, to charge 150m euros from toll, or in these few days, the citizens of Serbia have decided to register cars, to escape a road company, or to pay 150m dinars in a magical way. If it's 150 million dinars, how did the road company get 150 million dinars? I especially have a question for you who spoke so highly of the Law on Public Enterprises. Did you hear earlier when I said that the Management Board and JP "Serb Roads" met and said they would consider how to settle their debt to VAT. Do you want to explain to me the law of the JP Management Board "The Paths of Serbia"? Under the Law on Public Enterprises? I became an MP that day, so I can quote to you what you said when you defended the law – we will abolish the boards of directors, no one from the boards of directors, my party staff in the boards of directors, we will clean it all up. So, that ugly legacy of previous authorities. Now, he's been following you for a year, and you can't tell when to cross the party army, how are the good boards of directors? I have a solution for you, you love movies very much, so you can watch that movie "Three Cards for Hollywood", to the soul there travels, but it has a historical sentence of Laza Ristovski: "That militia, arrests the militia, only arrests the militia", without that – hit the militia. That'll tell us the problems we have in the travel industry. I apologize, Branislav Lečić, thank you fellow Cvian, you see how you do not forget where he came from, therefore, Branislav Lečić, legendary: "This militia, arrests the militia", without that – strike the militia. It's a solution to this situation, but not to be arrested in the Informer, in Tabloid, in the Courier, but where it's due, to conduct a fine investigation. For the end, please reduce the 11 million and 800,000 dinars. I know that some people are glad to have lunch on the cost of budget users, on the cost of the state, and before I finish, and I'll end up like yesterday, try to leave that oak alone, it's only 600 years old, that Americans have so old oak, the White House would move next to it, and I wouldn't move an oak. Try not to get in the way. Don't say that the cause of the oak is a trait of paraoric mentality, I may be a representative of that mentality, but under that oak about 200 years ago, my great-grandfather, Milivojević, with some other people from the Mine-Takovska nahia, watched a Milos Obrenovic raise a banner under that oak. Here's the one that throws, under that same oak, Milos Obrenović, and beat up those who forge stamps, so they take state land. When he forges the seal, he finds the whitest branch of oak, the fragments, then the gendarmes, the 25 of them, the anti-rheumatic therapy, and so on. So, I invite you, don't do this. You're pushing your hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens. It's not a country like this, it's not good for you, for the citizens of Serbia. Take care, this isn't your private state, this isn't a party state, this isn't a SNS state, there's a government reconstruction. Change all the ministers you said you'd take over, but everyone who's done a bad job, replace all the directors of public enterprises, deal with them, don't let them make you a hat, don't let them be your mirror of your coalition, because they'll tell you Serbian citizens, you haven't talked about it in a pre-election campaign, and you have a big difference between doctrine and practice, and don't miss the opportunity to change all these directors and all these ministers now when you reconstruct the government. Only in this way will you show that you really want Serbia to be in the EU and to solve the problem of corruption. Otherwise, if we have these laws with this newly reconstructed government of help, there is no and there is no Branislav Lecic who can say that sentence: "This militia is arresting". It won't help us. We won't eat that bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20644	Replica, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly amazed and amazed by the discussions of some MPs, because someone said the budget was missed by 40%. I'm going to have to buy him a calculator and teach him what a percentage is. As for VAT, where Mirko Cvetkovic was as finance minister, he found out that "Serbian Roads" did not pay him VAT. He must have been dealing with something more important, probably to provide these 13 billion dinars to cover and take over the cost of the Republic Health Fund, according to large-scale drugs. He probably did it with CesMekon, so he didn't get to finish, because that 13 billion would grow to 30. As for asphalting, I love it when someone starts to brag, because while they're paved, it was another minister, and now it's someone else. For information only, when it comes to Corridor 10 in 2012, it was paved nine kilometers, and in 2013, by June 30, 20 and by the end of the year, another 20 kilometers will be paved. When it comes to these famous bridges, I know well that in July I went on one trip, to Montenegro I went four bridges, and in December, for St Nicholas that same road I crossed those four bridges that were broken down. When it comes to all this talk about these alarm clocks. I think he's right in your government, and he knows it, that alarmer who warned that there was a road mob, kicked out of work. It's very difficult for me to determine in which mental context your mentality belongs, but I think it's antimatter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20646	Thank you. Mr. Panic, you want a line for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20647	That's right, incorrectly interpreted exposure, Article 104(1). Since there is no need for this with regard to digitron, we are fellow MPs here, and with our relationship with each other, we influence how our voters treat each other, we promote culture, and today we have the Minister of European Integration before us, so we could adapt a little to some European way of communication, not only rhetorically, but also practically. So 44% is a higher deficit that will be at the end of this year than the one you promised when you were making the budget last December. Now, you take whatever you want, digitron, and calculate it. It's really like that. That's what all the independent institutions say, I'm not the only one here now. So that's what I meant. Since you've been in the office watching this on TV, I won't blame you even though you suggested I take the digitron. The truth is, when we talk about roads now, we can push each other, deal with politics here as much as we want, but it's also the fact that out of the 47 billion dinars in the budget, which you promised to enter capital expenditures in this country, it's only realized 11%. It's only 11%. That something is happening in the shadows that everyone has declared pointless, it's this Vardar channel - Morava, so I don't know what's going to happen to it. Finally, we do not know who will be reconstructed until the end and whether the minister will be reconstructed, and with him, the project and all the money that has been spent on him so far. The fact is that when so little capital expenditure is realised, I repeat 11% of the planned money, there is no money in the register, there is no investment, there is no development, there is no end to end and clothe the end and that it is done by increasing VAT, the country owes four billion euros and per Serbia arrests to mask reality. It won't be long now, dear colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20648	Thank you. No mention of your name or name, and that's why I said what I said. Srdjan Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20649	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to tell you again and again what I keep telling you, what if you hadn't shown up? Where would I be ugly with this land if it wasn't for you to save us? Now I can think, when this is the job of the travel economy, how it will only be when the Belgrade-Stalac-Stalac-Grodelica- Dragobuke channel starts. There'll be five times the cost. When you're running the roads like this, how's it gonna be when the skeletons, the steamboats, the sandoline, the gondolas, who's gonna charge for it? How long will it take, so Serbian citizens will not be able to make money for the state alone. What pensions, there will be tolls, bridges, canal canals, but I fear that we are all in the canal, only in another channel, and not in this Belgrade - Stalac – Grdelica – Dragobuke. I'm telling you again, it's not good to transfer the burden of incompetence of public enterprises to the shoulders of Serbian citizens, we can't handle it, we can't handle it financially. All people love this country, everyone who lives here loves Serbia, but there are limits as long as he can financially pay the cost of that country and someone's incompetence. There is a moment where it has to be cut and said – this way it can't go on. The government's reconstruction, July 27th, is that day. On that day I will come with great patience here, don't come shocked, surprised, I will be an antishock therapy for you and I will tell you – you have this minister, you should replace him for that, Director JP for that. If you do this well, no party calculations, maybe I'll vote for that government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20650	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20651	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't count what anyone thinks. If someone said the budget was broken by 40%, then I think it's the budget, not the deficit. That word was not used in that sentence, so if colleagues want to be respected in that true sense of the word, then let them speak the truth. It is true, too, that now a reconstruction of the drum stream payment ramp is being done. It's probably not a man's past. He's on a plane to a session or that channel. Anything's possible. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Skela. ) Skel, here, I accept, can and can, so it wasn't even on the charging ramp of the drum stream. When it comes to property, we've just begun our fight against organised crime. We don't worry about our property, whoever comes to power, because what I have, my parents and I have. I didn't inherit any uncle here from Croatia, who can't even prove it's his property. When it comes to... (President: Mr. Arsic, please. ) We were called just like that, in those very words, to fear for our property, and when it comes to road reconstruction, Gazela was reconstructed for two years, she worked with only one tape, right in the tourist season. If someone scattered trucks and cars passing through Serbia in transit, that's Dragan Gilas. The same two years, the highway was reconstructed at "Arena", one tape, another tape, so don't tell us that some of the works that lasted literally one weekend, which can't be compared to two whole tourist seasons, that it's not right. Also, during your government, two of the most common containers on the Pogorec payment ramp were placed for more than a year and a half. So much for how you ruled Serbia. If we hadn't shown up, probably a lot of your party champions would have been even richer, how rich they are today, but come on, I remember a lot of MPs who used to come in here in their outstretched jeans and their sweatpants.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20652	Srdjan Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20653	Here we go, since my colleagues are taking a lot of pride, I'm really going to try to bring the end. The truth is, Gazela has not been reconstructed before, since it was made and if we hadn't done so, you would now be making a new Gazela, along with Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade, because it would have collapsed. We all witnessed it, the cameras were showing damage to the bridge, the bridge wasn't safe for traffic. When we talk about truck traffic through Belgrade, all those who come to the Assembly's meetings through this payment ramp that I am coming to, not by skating, by bicycle, by helicopter, because it's going to Gazimestan by helicopter, not by assembly, everyone who comes to the Assembly's session, we see there a board in the Bubanj stream, which the truck traffic slowly directs over some bypass around Belgrade and continues for Vojvodina. All who go to the airport to these congregation delegations have the opportunity to see somewhere out there in Dobanovci, separated after there a loop, which orbits Belgrade and truck traffic directs out of Gazela and out of downtown Belgrade. Dragan Djilas is called the one whose mandate it was done for and Nenad Bogdanovic was the one whose mandate it was designed for. Let me tell you something, whoever does something, even if it's you and Tomislav Nikolic, I'll never tell you what he did -- Dragan Gilas. That's what Nenad Bogdanovic did, that's what I did. I did it myself when I took out my wallet and I took out as much money as it takes. Otherwise, the taxpayers made the citizens of Serbia, and I just rerouted the money. I'm going to tell you this, that bridge that many attack, and some don't know where it is in Belgrade, that bridge you're attacking won't be taken home by anyone at the end of their term. These roads where someone is directing money to be done, they will not, at the end of their mandate, exude, remain for the citizens of Serbia both after us and after you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20654	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20655	I won't answer any more replicas. I can direct all the DS congratulations that within 12 years the authorities in Belgrade have managed to reconstruct one bridge in the Republic of Serbia, all congratulations on that. That's the speed you've led Serbia to the EU When you mention that bridge, no one's going to break it down and take it home, it's going to stay where it is. We're not attacking you for that, we're attacking you for getting paid that much. A much bigger bridge, much longer, with 12 saws cost twice as much as yours. That's what this is about. You can't justify yourself. There's no excuse for access routes, no excuse for any other. Here's the bridge at Beska's. Four and a half times cheaper than yours on Ada. It's a question of whether it's a bridge or if it's a monument. The man for life is his first monuments. He said – no matter how much it costs, we'll take the city, we'll take the city, we'll build a bridge so I can take a picture and open it before the election campaign. That's why you were holding Gazela, who was reconstructed two months earlier and harassing all of the same Belgraders to take one lane, so you wouldn't see how justified it was to spend those pairs, so when you opened the bridge on Ada, you waited ten days and then you opened both the tapes on Gazela. Are you saying that's not true? We are not rich enough to allow ourselves such luxury, neither the city of Belgrade nor the Republic of Serbia. When you mention the situation in society, the situation in the economy, accept at least part of the responsibility and say – we are to blame, at least for something. The citizens have punished you in the past elections, and when you reveal what you've done, the punishment will be even greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20656	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20657	I thought, in the context of this united debate on these four draft laws, that I would say something more about the first draft law, about taking over JP "Serbia's Roads" towards companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and transforming these obligations into a public debt of the Republic of Serbia. However, I can't take the impression, listening to previous speakers, who evaluated JP's "Serb Roads", and then the Secretary-General, the company's CEO, I thought that these people appeared a few months ago, the other day, that they were not familiar with anything, and I would remind you that Mr. Drobnjak had been placed in that position since 2007, and that many of the parliamentary groups who discussed it today have been involved in its deployment, not entering the way he does and what he is doing, and Mrkonjic has not been there since yesterday, but this is the second government in which he is the minister. I must say immediately that I will support this bill and others, not because I am happy about these solutions, but because there is simply no place for this government, but that these obligations that "Serbia's Ways" cannot be reconciled towards travel companies and some other societies. Also another bill of law where health institutions can't reconcile their obligations to large-scale drugs. Simply, this government has been brought before a final act and it has to take these systems into operation, for the sake of road safety, for the safety of traffic, because of the smooth treatment of our citizens, and it has to turn them into public debt, but it opens up some other issues. When it comes to the first draft law, this bill actually shows how disastrous the situation in this area has been, not since yesterday, not since the start of this government's mandate, but I would say, some of the colleagues mentioned today in the debate, that "Serbia's Roads" have been working to maintain a travel network in Serbia since 1992 with numerous annexes of the contract. Simply, the situation in this public enterprise and in that area at all is so bad that urgent steps must be taken to address these problems systemically. During the previous government, even the National Council for Infrastructure, led by the head of state, was set up to give meaning to this issue. I would say that the national council has not achieved any results in this area, because if we had today, we would not be discussing this bill, nor at the end of 2012, where some five billion dinars have also voted here and taken over the commitments of the Serbian Roads Company and turned them into a public debt. This is about the system's totally unsettled area. It has even resorted to the formation of another Public Enterprise "Corridori of Serbia", which has been removed from this system of "Serb Roads" under the pretext that there is such a bad situation in the company that it is better to form a new business to build highways. As far as I can tell, there were no more significant results. What if we have information that we have 900m euros of approved international loans that we are unable to withdraw. All resources have been granted. The reason we're most listed is that we don't have any projects. Well, I don't know what all of the previous governments and all the furniture in these numerous bodies, and in the ministries, and in "The Ways of Serbia" and in the corridors if it's not a lack of funds, it's total disorganization and unhappiness. It is not true that we do not have in Serbia companies that are involved in the project and that can project all these shares in time. If we look into the environment, all the former republics, almost all the independent states, all built modern roads. We're the only ones who cook and keep setting some deadlines that we don't respect ourselves, and we've really brought the situation to absurdity in this area. This government can't say it doesn't have much responsibility, because it's almost a year already. However, it has a truly minimal responsibility to previous governments that have disastrous results in this area. I hope that during the upcoming reconstruction, I don't mean here anyone personally or personally, and it's not my job either, but I think we should deal with this area and believe in the president of the SNS, the largest political party, whose MP group and I belong as a member of the Bosniak People's Party. I believe that they will deal with this area and I believe that we will systematically solve these problems so that we will not always and forever adopt such laws every year, assume the obligations of these unorganised public enterprises and turn them into public debt. At the very end of the discussion, I have to say it's strange that in this bill we have an exact debt figure. It's 1,346,775,310 dinars. So if we have the exact number, we just have to have the table that companies are owed to, because someone who came to this number must have come to it based on some data, on how much they owe to individual companies. No, it's just saying -- the government will now determine on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Traffic how much it owes to whom. So I already see the ranks of the directors of these companies that are announced in certain cabinets and then they're struck as at the market – you owe this much, so you give in a little bit, the crisis is etc. As long as it's done like that, it's no wonder we're in a situation like this. The main reason to vote for this bill, as well as for this next one, is that there are 10,000 employees who are not guilty of anything, which can't be said exactly for their directors, given when they took over certain jobs, they knew it wouldn't be possible to pay them right away. The mass of these commitments has been taken over in the last election campaign, and I don't want just the heads of this ministry and this company, but less everyone in these governments has put pressure on them. Travel companies had to work on religion to get votes in those elections. On this basis, we are paying today the votes that the travel firms in the previous elections provided to some political parties that were then in power. Fortunately, however, this has not affected the election results so much and Mr Nikolic has won the presidential election, and that victory has allowed this current government to form. I'm sure if anyone can get in the way of this, the current government will. Once again, I have confidence in most of the people in that government, and especially in Mr. Vukic, who, by his fight against corruption and crime, simply is not compatible with his policy and he must personally engage in this area to change things for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20658	Thank you. The word is Vice President Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20659	Thank you. I'd like to make a few facts. I am encouraged by what you, Mr Mukovic, have spoken. You actually hit the very core of the problem. If time had to pass to determine how much of this country that is always said to owe the biggest debtor what he owes to the wholesalers and what he's doing to the passengers. As far as major drugs are concerned, the original, or initial assessment was that the state, or health institutions, owed them about 13 billion dinars. This is the first law that we have passed and many MPs have pointed out, why you first said it was 13, so that it would eventually turn out to be 4.9, and this is in this bill that we are discussing today. When the invoices, which were successfully delivered by March 31st, when it all came together, turned out to be 4.9 billion dinars, which is also not small, but is two and a half times less than the initial figure of 13 billion dinars. That's the situation with the tolls. I was in government meetings where the government was said to owe eight, nine billion. Also, when you ask for invoices, documentation, then you get the number we're talking about today, which is 1.3 billion, which is not comforting again. Yes, it's less than eight, nine billion, what they said were debts. Unfortunately, we're turning that into a public debt today. The essence of what is said today is that I think we all know that we need a serious reconstruction and restructuring of public enterprises, because more like this, with such public enterprises, whose founder is Serbia, who accumulate, accumulate losses from year to year, we simply can't take it anymore, and we can't deal with it anymore. I just want to inform all the MPs that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has opened dozens of competitions for the selection of directors of public enterprises, so in accordance with the Law on Public Enterprises, I want to believe and that I hope that this professionalisation will finally take place in the management of public enterprises, because that is what we have undertaken by passing the Law on Public Enterprises. Among other things, a competition has been called for the director of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" on June 30th of this year. Today, the Public Enterprise Supervisory Board "The Paths of Serbia" was formed. Why didn't they do it before? I don't know, but here's today's commitment to the same law has been fulfilled. This constant moaning that the state owes the most in the end is not worth it, since there are accounts, there is a list of commitments made. The state is, unfortunately, on both republican and local level, in debt to everyone, but that's why we've also passed the Law on payment deadlines, so the state comes from itself. The state, republic and locale must settle their obligations within 45 days, so I hope from now on there will be no longer any dilemma of whether anyone should, must respect the law. The law must be respected and the law must be equal for all, so the law on Serbia's roads must also pay VAT. If they have successfully avoided this in previous years, if no one has warned them from the previous finance ministry, make sure it is not the case this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20660	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20661	Dear Vice-Presidents, distinguished Madam Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I will speak of two laws -- the Law on Obligation of the JP "Roads of Serbia" and the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Obligation of Health Institutions to High Drugs. I will begin my presentation with the situation in society and how much DS is responsible in this regard. The Democratic Party is less than seven years in power for these 23 years. On average, to be understood by citizens, there is only 30% responsibility for the state of society. All other political parties together have 70% responsibility for what is happening today in Serbia. In the past, the DS had only 40% of ministers, and 60% were representatives of other political parties. I've never heard anyone talk about that other responsibility in a session here in the Assembly. So DS was 40 percent responsible. Where is that 60% responsibility of other political parties that made the government, disastrous, as they all say, Mirko Cvetkovic? When we talk about public enterprises and debt, we talk about it all the time, and there's little talk about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I have to mention, it's not about advertising some successful company of ours that shows up on TV, do they pay VAT? Does DIS, the biggest trading chain, pay VAT? Do we here in the Assembly need to turn some of their debt into public debt? Does "Nectar," do "Polip" from Batocina, some great companies that pay taxes to the state? What does JP "Serbian Ways" mean for our citizens? So it's getting your hands back into the citizens' pockets. Once again, respected citizens, you will have to pay taxes, contributions and all others to help "The Ways of Serbia", a company for which the DS is partly responsible, but very little, but other political parties are responsible, who did what she did. No VAT is paid. That debt is 1.35 billion to be converted into public debt. What does that mean? What's 1.35 billion? It's, uh, respected citizens, 66 kindergartens or turned into hospitals, two hospitals with full equipment. What are the costs of representing the company? That's 12.4 million. That's what the report says. It's almost one kindergarten for your children. It's not like it's a riding trip, it doesn't exist in any country in the world, and we're taking loans for railways, for airports, for Galenika, the country still owes, while in these companies there's an incredible publicity and irresponsibility. What are the costs of the trip, the secretary, the voucher, the summers and everything else? Privileges enjoyed by the directors of public enterprises are hundreds of times greater than the privileges of MPs. All of us MPs know how exposed we are to the media hacks that are all our privileges, what our salaries are and what happened in the previous period. Being a director of a public enterprise with such privileges is a phenomenal thing. God forbid these competitions work, I'd like it to work, and finally the political parties don't get involved, but the way things are going right now, I think it's going in the same direction again, unfortunately. The next thing I wanted to talk about was the minister's proposal to increase the toll. That's amazing. It's also one of the pointless solutions. Now I'm going to say what the toll prices in Europe are, compared to us. For example, for Belgrade-Nish is a toll of 6.5 euros, and in Austria, there is a vignette in 10 days 7.9 euros. In the Czech Republic, there is wine in 10 days 12.5 euros. In Slovakia, the wine is seven days' worth of seven euros. In Slovenia, the wine is in seven days 15 euros, and in Bulgaria it is seven euros in five days, and not to read any further. First, the reasons for creating such a debt to travel companies must be established, and therefore the responsibility for increasing public debt, the ultimate responsibility. Did the government budget provide for insufficient means to maintain the roads that are being transferred to "Serb Paths"? Did "Serbian Roads" conclude contracts with toll companies that are larger than the funding provided for by the business programme, which would be a non-intentional spending of funds? Are the unreally designed revenues of "The Way of Serbia" in order to enable the conclusion of a contract with travel companies that are larger than the real financial capacities of "The Road of Serbia", or is there some other reason? We simply cannot go over things like this in the system – it happened because in an orderly system it should not happen. Public debt is being taken over and paid by Serbian citizens and you have a responsibility to explain how and why such obligations have occurred and how you have ensured that this does not happen in the future. As for the second law amending the Law on the Obligation of Health Institutions to Large Drugs, why did the Government not verify the amount of debt involved, but first passed the law, adopted it in the Assembly, increased the public debt of the country, and only when it started to settle obligations, did it find that they were almost three times less? In doing so, it's not about the difference of eight thousand dinars, it's about eight billion dinars. Are you aware of how much money that is? It's easy for you when you're in charge of 400 billion dinars, so easily you promise to pay off the three-bit 13 billion without checking the real obligations. A shortage of drugs is all that threatens our people. You have a circulatory medicine called Trental. You can't buy it in Serbia, you can only buy it in Hungary. It's a medicine that patients need. These are all serious problems. When we talk about public enterprises, I have to compare them again to micro-small medium-sized enterprises. There are only 104,000 liquid micro and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia, and they are the heart of Serbia's economy. These people need help. It's 86% of micro-enterprises. Where are the subsidies for them? How does the state think of them -- if he only thinks about these failed companies, how does he think of companies that are so in debt, how he thinks about companies that are almost twice the subject of a calendar year in the Assembly? What will be done towards irresponsible directors and ministers? I expect a lot from the reconstruction of the government. I hope that the best ministers will remain, and that those who have done what they did about prom, roads and everything else have finally been replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20662	The next on the application is National MP Biljana Stosic Ilic, who is not there. The word has a folk MP, Nebojsa Beric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20663	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs present in the hall, the proposal for a law on the commitment of the JP "Serb Roads" to companies based on unmistakable obligations and the conversion of these obligations into public debt by the Republic of Serbia regulates the method and the time framework, the reconciliation of these financial obligations by JP "Serb Roads" according to the travel companies with which JP "Serb Roads" have concluded road maintenance contracts. The total debt of the Road of Serbia towards travel companies, as has already been said here many times, amounts to 1,364,000 dinars as of April 1, 2013. Here it is important to stress that it is a debt that comes from several years back, which also points to the lack of care of the previous regime towards the problem of maintaining existing infrastructure. I'll remind you of our Serbian travel network. Asphaltic Augustes of the state roads of the first and second order were built in 1962-1985, with many directions retaining the old elements and routes until today. Serbia's road network of 40,845km is made up of 5,525km of first-row state roads, 11,540km of second-class state roads, 299,0km of local roads. It is important to stress that 32% of the first and second lines are over 20 years old and only 14% to 10 years old. About the disastrously bad situation on our roads, it's in vain to waste words and time. According to some expert estimates, enterprises currently engaged in Serbia by maintaining local and state-of-the-art roads need about six billion dinars by the end of the year to survive and to adequately prepare for the upcoming winter period. Today, travel companies in Serbia have been brought into an unenviable position, as they do not have 50% of the necessary means to maintain roads regularly. If this were to continue, within two months all 24 road companies dealing with road maintenance would come, resulting in the release of about 10,000 people working in these companies. In order to avoid such a scenario, two key steps must be taken. First – settle debts to all travel companies. The second and most important -- systemically providing financial resources, which will ensure the regular maintenance of the travel network in Serbia in the coming period. The bill regulates the way and dynamics of the reconciliation of the financial obligations of JP "Serb Roads" according to the toll companies, where it is clearly defined that in three equal wars -- in July, September and October, they will be regulated with funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This allows the first of the two steps mentioned above to be met, so the SNS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20664	The next on the application is the folk MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, who is not there. MP Miodrag Lint? (Not there) National MP Tanja Radovanovic? (Not here) National MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20665	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, we have a set of four draft laws ahead of us, and we have talked all day about JP "The Paths of Serbia" and the fate of JP "The Paths of Serbia". It seems to me that one large majority of opposition MPs here all day long, as our people would say, is draining dry wood, because they keep mentioning some oaks and telling empty stories, and everything that's going on in that company and everything that we're discussing here today is their fault. In the past 10 years, they've had the opportunity to arrange and the roads, and the pathways, and the waterway and everything alive. They built a 50km highway in 10 years. Everything that this government and this assembly have done wrong has to change, change for the better. That is why we have before us a bill on the commitment of JP "The Ways of Serbia". Are we going to let that road company that they failed to destroy, shut down and have 10,000 people out of work? Either way, we have to draw the line and know where we are and where we have to start. This also refers to the second draft law on the taking over of health institutions' obligations towards wholesale drugs. The question arises – why 13 billion? It was the first proposal, and now it's four billion. I think the Minister explained it quite well. Anyway, the state needs to take over this debt, because it's covering up the story that our citizens as taxpayers are going to suffer this, so in any case they've suffered it so far. There's no telling where the budget's coming from. That's where it's gonna settle all those obligations. What surprises me most is that no one has mentioned the proposal for a law on the confirmation of Annex one Agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. In this way we want to deepen our co-operation with the People's Republic of China and that, apart from this investment of the Zemun-Borch Bridge, we continue to build on. That is why this annex is made up for future infrastructure investments in Serbia. In front of us is the proposal for a law on the signing of the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on a loan for the realisation of programmes and loans to help small and medium-sized enterprises through domestic banks, as well as support for the local development of public utility companies. It is a very important bill, which suggests that the Republic of Serbia is thinking about investment, thinking about development. I think that we should have given more time and attention to this bill, but to those empty stories about the Public Enterprise Roads and that there will be an increase in the price of toll or no toll, what is the price of toll in Italy or Slovenia, etc. I don't want to owe more time to my fellow MPs. In any case, the SNS will support all four draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20666	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20667	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, my former colleague said what the previous regime had done about making roads and paved roads, and I'm going to look a little more at what was going on in medicine, given that it was my profession. When this government tried to make an account of how much it was owed, how much it was sought, there was a figure of 14 billion dinars, how much unmistakable the liabilities to large-scale drugs were. Fortunately, the debt turned out to be significantly lower and it amounts to only four billion. Why is there such a difference? Still in a huge number of health institutions is old, as they would say, the management of these health institutions, which were generally run very unqualityly, was chosen by people who were party listeners and they led these health institutions, and then they had to plan in their own way as they were likely to get orders from party headquarters. Unskilled and unskilled personnel, who are chosen as they suit one another, are probably partly to blame. Those people who wanted their hospitals, their clinics, to function well and qualityly, probably took up some bumps, under quotes, so they made some projections that needed to be made to get some amount of consumable material or drugs to function regularly. How did that happen? How many examples of irrational consumption are best seen from this famous and famous vaccine that still, a colleague from DS just before said, 680,000 doses await destruction. How much money has been spent or unplanned during the previous regime? During that time, while someone was planning millions of numbers that applied to flu vaccines, for this famous flu, they were in the infirmarys, in the offices, making us unreally save, that we were saving. Let's say, when you clean a patient's wound and you use medical gasoline, medical alcohol and povidone iodine with a couple of buffers, then you measure the amount of fluid used on a scale scale scale, which was just amazing. That's the assignment I refused. At the hospital, I waited for someone to come over to see me, to call me why I didn't do it. No one showed up. During that time, they expensive appliances, concerning millions of figures, passed the glare, the acquisition of scanners, the duplication of scanners, the acquisition of magnetic resonances, the transfer of key parts from magnetic resonances and scanners from state hospitals to old private appliances, and then interesting combinations with repairers and equipment. It's all allowed to go into oblivion. This time I appeal to those who are involved in legislation to check what has been going on for the last ten, fifteen years with these appliances, how vital parts that are the most expensive, which are the heart of these machines, have disappeared and gone to other appliances. Then someone realized that in the medical care system, in the previous regime, there was a logic that hospitals formed facilities for the production of parenteral solutions that are the basis of each hospital therapy and spent in large amounts. They calculated that this is much cheaper than that large amount of liquid, which is practically worthless, because it contains 0.9% of the kitchen salt, pure kitchen salt in one liter of liquid, is transported from a large distance, and then these plants in local hospitals have more cost-effectiveness. It was also done in a large number of health centers with a large pump, but it was soon closed and stopped working. Meanwhile, there was a more favourable supplier, companies from distant countries, even from Germany and other countries, which produce these parenteral solutions. Someone calculated that there are more bills to be used in the health system than to be produced in our drug factories or in our parenteral solutions plants in our hospital circles. That's what's called household business and management structure, as the people of the previous regime, who are mostly management experts, for business, for everything they've touched and what's failed. One of the interesting phenomena is happening with our drug factories, which from our hands, from the hands of those who made them, who educated the staff and successfully produced them, pass overnight into the possession of some others, starting with "Health" from Leskovci, according to Hemofarm, which were very successful and model factories. Of course, today, they're just under the auspices of foreign so-called. strategic partners. A strategic partner, in my opinion, makes sense to pull something out of a crisis or make something better, not to take something that's already good and doing great and to pay taxes and profits in this country. At the same time, some other drug manufacturers are being punished for not having a strategic partner. Let's say, "Gallenika" who delivered ready-made drugs to this Health Fund, or these majors, for about fifty million euros, at the same time that Hemofarm delivered ten million euros, don't hold me by the figures. The Hemofarm was paid for, and Galenika was forced to take an unfavourable loan to cover the costs. Given that this is a figure of 50, 60, 70m euros, as far as we already do, and we have about 79,80m euros here under this public debt balance, I suggest that the government consider and that it may make some compensation so that those money that have already been voted as public debt are used to cover the loan that has taken "Galenika" for already delivered medicines and to make something called saving the Serbian pharmaceutical industry, less important, but more important to save Serbia's health, because every medicine that we have imported from abroad is three to four times more expensive than our domestic medicine. If you calculate the difference between the price of the finished drug when you import it and the price of raw materials for that medicine that you produce here with your home smartness, you'll see how much it would save on the import of raw materials, not the finished drugs, and also on the use of our mind that our brains that have already been proven produce these same drugs for our poor people, who in the last two, three years, at least in front of my office, have always prayed for some cheaper domestic medicine, and not some more expensive side. Of course, I'm not against foreign drugs. Foreign companies are ahead of us and all of those drugs that we cannot adequately produce, adequately follow, should be introduced from the world and should be put in place to be available to every patient, if possible, via a doctor's prescription, if not, then they invest their resources that are less and less. In that sense, I appeal to people who are currently dealing with this problem, to think about whether it can be helped in any way and to preserve our only remaining factory, so that these daughters of factories that came from Galenika and some other pharmaceutical companies don't go to human resources and to some garages and basements to start mini-production. The same mini-productions from the surrounding countries also deliver ready-made drugs to us, so that in a variety of ways we spend a lot more money, foreign money, in my opinion, completely unwarranted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20668	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20669	Madam Chairman, how much time do we have left? (President: 54 minutes. I'll make sure it stops in those 54 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that some are present in the spirit of their cards. They had a lot of grudges, and then they quietly left the O.R. and stayed really in the spirit of their card. As I recall, the spirit of that card had no objection when Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was here the last time, even publicly commended him. As soon as Mrkonjic was away, the spirit of the card gained extenuation and made a bunch of accusations, but also a bunch of lies, as far as debts and road conditions are concerned. As far as I know, we iron old debts, old government debts. They were shown in some amounts that were five billion higher than they are now, instead of 1.35 billion, the debts reportedly sought by the tolls were over six billion. What I'm saying is that they were hoping, tolls, secretly hoping to remain the old government, that then they'd be all kinds of machinations and combinations, which they were used to, hence the country's debt and the bad infrastructure, which they're legitimately complaining about, even though they're hugely responsible for that bad infrastructure, regardless of how much money they spent and they owed the country for not knowing how many billions of euros. From what I understand, the finance minister, we don't use 3.3 billion at all thanks to the parties to the former regime, that loan remains untapped and therefore we have very bad roads at the moment. The six-point debt fell to 1.35 because the new government dared to check the invoices of those companies that the former owners trusted on the word. Who knows how much it would have cost us if it hadn't been for the change of government? And I also see by the debt according to the big drugstores that there were combinations between health institutions and wholesales, that a debt of 4.9 billion would appear to be 13 billion. I think all those who were in those combinations are deeply sorry that we came to power and that the spirit of that card that is present in this room is not in power. We've been listening here to how, like, we've been in charge of, like, how the director of a public company is responsible for everything, etc. Let me remind you, the director of the public firm that is now being re-elected by the competition, was most likely elected without competition in December 2007. The man who ran the roads for the past 4-5 years, during the rule of the party of the former regime, has remained in his position today and, as I recall, for the first time now will be the director of "The Way of Serbia", because earlier the firm was called differently, for the first time it will be elected in the contest. There are certain progresses. I am deeply dissatisfied that we must iron our debts, but I also understand the tolls. I also understand the tolls, among which are citizens, ten thousand, the fate of their families, whether they will eat tomorrow, whether they will ever bathe in a piece of clothing, shoes, etc. It all depends on whether this state will pay the debts incurred during the former government. When the government changes, it inherits not only the government but all the obligations of the previous regime. So, even if we wanted to, we can't avoid the right to pay debts to travel organizations and wholesales, for the simple reason that they would sue the state, and that debt that we are now turning into public debt would grow by interest to a far larger number and perhaps draw closer to those figures that they wanted to collect after winning their favorite characters in the 2012 elections. I mean, the debt we pay goes back to the citizens in their pockets. But I wonder what we're gonna do about the tolls that worked for the Alps? Who will make up for the debts incurred by the former regime's choice of a fairly non-solid road company that has fallen into both difficulties and debts 2.6 billion. So, at this point, the Alpina company that was carrying out the work on Serbia's territory has serious debts, multimillion, according to our travel companies, and we do not cover these debts with this public debt, so that the travel firms came into an unequal position during the former regime, because one of them made contracts with the public company "Roads of Serbia" and others worked as subcontractors of the "Alpine", which had been getting all the works in the previous four or five years and remained short for our travel companies for 420 million dinars, it seems to me, and thus seriously endangered their business. As far as the drugs are concerned, the people must be treated. We have to pay that debt. But I join the opposition's request to examine who wanted it, in which way, with whom, to increase the debt from 4.9 to 13 billion. So it's about debts that didn't come during this government. It should be determined who wanted to charge 8.1 billion more than the actual debt. When the government asked them for invoices, they couldn't prove that debt. As for road congestion, it was, and I agree with that, an elemental disaster was, companies that took care of road maintenance, apparently under certain blockades that were also created during the ruling of the party of the former regime, and therefore a number of citizens were in obsessing over. But unlike the unfortunate Arthur Takac, they had no such skilled savior, who is present here with the spirit of his card, to succeed in taking them out of the snow, but had already had the first vice president of the government who hired and the tanks, if necessary, not to experience the fate of Mr. Arthur Taker, who had not been found, although the person who was present here with the spirit card was in charge of finding him and apparently they were his rescue abilities or that rescue them, as the rescuers say, have weakened so that the unfortunate Arthur Takac was not saved from oblivion, somewhere in the Kopalnik. But the passengers, thanks to the engagement of both the armies and tanks, managed to evacuate from the paved roads and the elemental disaster that was serious, not only in our country but also in Hungary and neighbouring countries. Objections on the other side don't stand. So a lot of state guarantees were given. I don't like that we're turning this into a public debt. In this way, citizens might also demand that we also settle their debts through public debt so that, for example, debts to this bank or that bank come and say – when you can debt to the passengers, please, according to pharmaceuticals, go ahead and turn our debts into public debt. However, since we have inherited this from the former government, we have these debts, because of the seriousness of the state and because of the rules that rule, we have to pay those debts in the way that is proposed here. But I advise the current government not to leave this kind of debt to any future government, because it will be the most spoken of by the government that has left its government to another government. I'd hate to leave these problems to anyone, even our blackest enemy. There are also some roads and some objects on the roads, the state has given guarantees and, in some ways, it is growing into a public debt of the state, so I will remind you that this Assembly, though fortunately, before we arrived, before I arrived and before this government arrived, has granted a guarantee for the Bridge of Ada. The guarantee was worth hundreds of millions of euros. So that will turn into Serbia's public debt. That bridge cost 500 million, and by the end it'll cost 1.5 million. To translate that, since the opposition complained about the state of the roads, that the money could have made at least 500km of highways. So one of my previous speakers didn't have to travel in 1999 six hours from Valjev to Kruševec, but now it could have come a long way for a shorter time if instead of expensive and grandiose bridges, which bring together two local communities in Belgrade, we were making some facilities that would be both commercial and that would charge traffic both in the capital and around. Moreover, as I understand it, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Mr. Velimir Ilic, regardless of such a grandiose bridge, we now have to make another one on the Sava, given that it has not been taken care of, don't be surprised, I think I heard it from the minister, that it must be made on the other side of the Sava highway, so that this bridge never fits into a solution that should lead us to the highway to Požega Ibarski highway. I think, regardless of this bridge that connects the two meat communities, we're going to have to make a more functional bridge, and this one will remain a monument to human nonsense. So, not getting into as much as it takes, I'm not happy that these rich, like. The man responsible for this bridge will no longer be able to make a little more commitment to the former government, or as the older people say, is distressed, that these debts are eroded by the money of those who in the meantime, while the governments became rich, which someone would say – even rudely wealthy. Our people say – saving is the best profit. If we'd saved on such roads and objects, if we hadn't made such grand bridges, if we'd used the money we could've used, we'd have far better roads. Why someone traveled six hours from Kruševec to Valev, that's what I'll explain. In those two neighbouring places, there were two resistors, and I believe that when he arrived in Valjevo, he got so much money that he could easily rebuild that road in 1999. When he was coming back, she could have passed a low construction before him. So, for the money they got, they could've completely restored that trip. As for the oak, which is on a stake, I believe that some Milivove raised some uprisings, etc., but if he knew that his descendant under that same oak would put the locators and the flags of the NATO Pact, I think he would have been deeply repented for raising a banner of freedom and making statehood if he saw his progeny do what he was doing and how he acted in the newer Serbian history. Anyway, we're told here that he's gonna be our therapy. If that's true, and I've heard it well, colleagues can confirm, I don't think we need him as therapy, but that he needs to increase therapy. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20670	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Milivoevich, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20671	So can the Rules of Procedure, and so can the replica, however you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20672	It's better to hurt the Rules of Procedure after we've moved on to this part.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20673	I'm reporting for an officer. 106, 107, 103 and 104. There have been previous attempts by people to lower Parliament's dignity and they have done so successfully. Of course, those who have done so no longer sit in parliament. It's up to you to take everyone's discussion as a creative discussion. It's up to you to respect freedom of speech and freedom of expression. I personally do not mind the names of whoever they come from, whether they are persons accused of serious crimes, whether they are persons accused of counterfeiting the seals, whether they are persons who have damaged the state of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, whether they are persons who forged the seal of the District Court in Valjevo or others. I wasn't afraid of those in the O.R., or in the street, or in the dark, or when they come from behind, or when they don't tie their seat belt properly, and I'm not afraid now. But it is not good to bring parliamentary debate to this level. This speaks of those who use such arguments, talks about their parliamentary group they belong to, and that is the mirror of the modern, civilized European Serbia they want and because of which they did not get the date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20674	Thank you. You took advantage of the Replicable Rules of Procedure's breach institute. Mr. Risticevic, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20675	I don't have the right to replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'd like to report for an article. 103, 104, 105, 106 and 107, in particular the second position. If he's alluding to me, I'd like to see one of those charges, see it on paper once, see if it's nice to get out of this room, if he thinks I'm being accused of something, to prove it nice somewhere else, and not to put out some attitudes, to say something, and to, of course, violate the Rules of Procedure. So if he wasn't in the O.R., I wasn't talking about him at all, I was talking about the person who was present with the spirit of his card. Is someone going to say that the MP who spoke before me wasn't there, that he left his card, that he didn't take it with him, that he should be punished for doing so, etc? I'm not asking for such a harsh sentence, but in the future, Madam Chairman, see that under the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, some MPs do not accuse others, especially without evidence. I'd love to once, when I'm so accused by the former government, and I don't know why they didn't lock me up, to see that indictment preceded by the speaker persistently alluding for days. So, since I didn't steal this country, since I didn't do anything dishonest, apparently his illusions are so much without any evidence, I just don't have any words. So I can listen and when he talks about toll, I can also hear that he's nervous, maybe his boyfriend's been charged toll, but certainly this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure can't go through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20676	Neither is this, Mr. Risticevic, since you used this institute to replicate. Here you go, Mr. Milivojevic, although all the members are listed, I don't know what's left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20677	I'm reporting under Article 27. I beg you as the chairman of the National Assembly, since I have repeatedly addressed the request of the National Assembly to give me the footage of the theft of my parliamentary card, that the video be delivered to me. Please act as chairman and vice president of the National Assembly. There's already that, for God's sake, 45 days. I'd really like to get a video of you stealing your MP's card. That's what I asked in writing, so we wouldn't insist every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20678	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20679	I am reporting under Article 127: "The MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to log out when leaving the hall." Apparently, my predecessor didn't do it. "For the MP who uses the identification card of the second MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the National Assembly president expresses the distance from the session, and the vote in which the abuse was committed will be annulled and immediate access to identification and re-voting will be revoked." It happened that the quorum was being determined or that there was a vote without the MP before me being there. "The MP who has not been identified in the manner set out in Article 1 has no right to receive a word." Article 128: "The MPs are obliged to carry the identification cards with them on their way out of the National Assembly." So obviously that wasn't the case. "If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves in the MP's unit, or next to it his identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver that card to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and the card will be returned to the MP upon entering the hall." Since the service was gone then, I admit I handed his card over to the secretary of the National Assembly, so he doesn't need any evidence. So, I'm the one who gave your card back to the secretary of the National Assembly, and apparently it just happened to be all these injuries I was talking about. However, I do not insist on voting on this in the voting day. Only so, when someone wants to be so righteous and objecting to many things, then at least they have to comply with these basic rules in Articles 127 and 128. I literally quoted the rules of the Rules of Procedure, just so the citizens know who's breaking the Rules of Procedure here, who's not breaking it. So when someone complains to us who has broken the Rules of Procedure many times, leave your card, walk to Bodrum, Thessaloniki, etc. and we've had cases like this, it's just not fair to other MPs, and I'm not asking for this to be voted on in Vote Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20680	Thank you. Just to remind you, Mr. Risticevic, the Rules of Procedure can only hurt the chairman. So, since you didn't turn right after the injury, I don't know how I could fix it now. If there are cards in MPs' units where MPs don't sit there, please have professional services take those cards out. Mr. Milivoevich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20681	Eclatively, article 107 has been broken. Rules of Procedure. We've been trying to figure out who stole my MP mole here for 45 days. Now that it is evident that we will receive video, we will, of course, be looking for voting lists and when the person who is the suspect has reported himself, please enter the record, that MP Marijan Rističević has announced that he has taken my message card against him and that he has taken it in an unknown direction and I do not know what he has done with it, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he will give him notice. I think it's a scandalous way. Watch out, we're called the Bodrum by those who steal MP cards and admit they stole a letter card. Please, there are parliamentary professional services here that do not work in the business of taking cards. Since it is obvious here that the video will prove the theft of my MP card, and we have the confession of the perpetrator, who has been found so far, and now that established doubt no longer exists because he has reported himself to have done so, please inform the President of the National Assembly, the Administrative Board, to get the papers of the vote in that day and the previous day and to see if this is why the ruling majority never has a quorum at 10.00 hours. This is a drastic example of a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, where the MP admits to stealing my letter card. In doing so, he's giving us lectures on voting from Bodrum. I'm undermining the question - how many more cards did he take when we didn't ask for video of the session? This is certainly not the first time because there is one tendency here to commit this serious offense and breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think this has significantly disrupted the dignity of this home, that it has put into question all the votes of the ruling majority. Every time we ask for a roll call because there's an MP here who publicly boasts about stealing a card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20682	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, please. Please, just a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20683	Unlike him, I'll talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Article 103(2) - The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the President of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. So it was a second complaint of a member's injuries in 107 even from the same MP. The difference between stealing and returning to the secretary is very big, but since he can't figure it out, I'm not gonna ask you to vote on this. It is obvious that there is a need to strengthen therapy, and it can be helped, but it has to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-05-0.u20684	Are we done? (Yes) Does anyone else want a word, in accordance with Article 96? Rules of Procedure? (No) Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) I conclude a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Taking Obligations of the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia" according to companies on the basis of unmistakable obligations and transforming these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Obligation of Health Institutes to Major Drugs based on the acquisition of medicinal products and medical material and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex No 1 of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Changes and Supplements to the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Italy on Credit for the Assistance of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises through the Domestic Banking Sector and Supporting Local Development through Public Commercial Enterprises". For today, we'll be done with our work. We'll continue on Tuesday, July 9th, at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
