ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21607	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 77 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Branko Ružic, Srdjan Milivojevic and Miletic Mihajlovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Dr Danilo Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Mr Milisav Cogurić, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the search in particulars of the second item of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON DELOSSIONS You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Jovan Palalić, Milica Radović, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Prof. Dr Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstanović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Nada Kolundžija, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Miković, Gordana Čomić, Teodora Vlahović, Algica Batić, Neđa Jovanovic, Radmila Popović, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarević, Ivan Karić, Slobodan Veličić, Ljubica Vlašević, Ljubica Milošević, Verojub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Vero Varga, Balit Varga, Balin Paštor, El Koštrštrštrštr, Hr. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you that MP Natasa Vukkovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 41, which she submitted on 16 July 2013. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petko-vic, Milos Aligrudić and joint MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija submitted together. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21608	As we have said in principle, it is very important to pass law on infringements and with all those objections which our parliamentary group has expressed through amendments, we believe that, in one part, the existing text of the law has been improved and that it will certainly contribute to the fact that misdemeanour proceedings, in particular the fact that misdemeanor courts are being formed and that the proceedings before infringements will be brought forward. As different solutions were adopted in the Law of Infringements itself, one part of the Criminal Code and another part of the Code of Criminal Procedure, we felt that the definition of the offence should have done as defined in the Criminal Code. It's a criminal offense. Conviction or sentence can lead to imprisonment. It's not enough in the definition of violations to keep just the notion of illegality. I will remind you that the Criminal Code itself has said that the crime is the crime for which the law provides for a criminal offence that is against the law and which is wronged. We think our amendment was meant to introduce the definition of a violation of the fact that it was wronged. In an explanation of why you refuse the amendment, you point to the next thing – unlike criminal acts, the offenses and the character of most of them being defiant. This – most of all, is not a convincing argument to refuse, because they seem imaginary, especially what in the most important definitions of the opening part you speak and introduce the notion of curvature, so you talk about bent incompetence. We think it was good, given the nature of the violations and sanctions that can be imposed for the offence committed, that the concept of guilt is. the subjective relationship to the infringement introduces a definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21609	National MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21610	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to express on the one hand the satisfaction that has been accepted by the government by the eight amendments of our parliamentary group and, on the other hand, two other very important amendments have been accepted on the Committee and I think we have greatly improved the text of the law. The most important thing about which there was the most controversy in the past period was the period of limitations of prosecution. We have succeeded with the amendment and our parliamentary groups and other parliamentary groups and by understanding the government's representatives to return that deadline to two years for absolute obsolescence. I think it's a big success. As for the amendment that we are now discussing, my colleague Palalic explained well. The amendments of our parliamentary group and DSS are practically in the same text. I would like to point out once again that anyone would be punished for any crime, whether it's a crime or a crime, he has to do something wrong. It is not enough that some conduct is against the law, as the law states, but it is necessary to find fault. Someone had to do something to punish it, and I absolutely believe that opposition MP groups are right when they submit an amendment that implies an amendment besides illegality and that this act must be blamed for being punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21611	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21612	Just another brief detail about this curve. So, like they said before, it's a subjective relationship to action, you know. Anti-legal behavior can be any behavior contrary to the legal norm. If a person is not capable of judgment completely, because it is otherwise not capable, I don't think he brought himself in through alcoholism, but, yes, simply a person who is not capable, has no business ability, can he commit a crime? Yeah, in the sense of illegal action. Could it be responsible? No, and without responsibility, there's no complete definition of the work. So the relationship to the offence, subjective, must be an integral part of the definition. Although, when I look at that definition of yours, I don't think it's your argument that most of the offenses appear to be of sufficient good reason. I mean, you gave an explanation where you deliberately didn't put the blame as an element of the offense. That would be consistent with those provisions of the law that speak of objective responsibility for the offence, and that's what we talked about in the principle debate. So there's no objective responsibility for the violations. That's what needs to be erased. If not today, if not in the voting day, then you submit new amendments to the law to delete objective responsibility. It can't be, it's not a civilization act. Therefore, the curvature of the act must be in the description of the offense. I think it would be good for you to accept these amendments, no matter how many of them you didn't accept today. We have until the day to vote, to give the signal to the ruling majority to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21613	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the first of the 16 amendments that we have submitted to this text of the law, and as colleagues from my parliamentary group, and colleagues from the DS have said, it is necessary to define and make a completely different definition of the offense, in that it is necessary for his being to exist and guilty. So it's not enough to be just an illegal act, it's also necessary to do the wrong thing. And if we apply the concept of the CAP, against whom we have a lot to say at the beginning, and we will talk about it later, then it is necessary to be fully consistent in this respect and when it comes to the definition of the offence that we are comparing the definition of a criminal act in the part where it naturally corresponds to reality. On the other hand, the objective of this amendment, as I said, is to specify the definition of violations, and the purpose of all the other amendments that we have submitted to this bill is to correct the text of the law and we are very pleased in this regard. We are pleased that you have accepted the amendments, I would say the key amendment, where limitation deadlines remain completely unchanged. You accepted that proposal previously contained in the bill, which is that the deadlines of relative obsolescence increase from one to two years, i.e. the deadlines of absolute obsolescence from two to four years. This would mean further procrastination of the infringement procedure and would mean that misdemeanor courts work more slowly and would be none of the efficiency declared by the adoption of this law. We express our satisfaction with the openness that you have had with regard to accepting the arguments that we have presented. There are still many amendments that are very high-quality and that are accepted, which significantly correct the text of the law, but I have to say that there are several amendments that you have accepted, but in our opinion, they are improving the text of the amendment. Here are the amendments relating to the derogation from the rule that infringements are conducted exclusively by misdemeanor courts. You made an exception when it comes to the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in the Public Procurement Process. In principle, I deliberately apostropheeded this law and the necessity of its alignment with the Law on Violences, if adopted, for a simple reason, because I felt that such a situation could occur. It may come because an exception has been made. If I'm not mistaken, you're in a principle debate, the professional public has said that one of the great ranges of this law is that the misdemeanor proceedings will be conducted exclusively by law-abiding courts. Now we're making an exception, and we don't know what parameter, based on which arguments you did this. During the debate on the Law on Public Procurement, we said, our parliamentary group, there were, of course, MPs from other parliamentary groups who said that in the Commission for the Protection of Rights in the Public Procurement Procedure, a huge power is concentrated, not only that it has the opportunity to initiate a misdemeanour process, but it judges, investigates, hears, makes decisions. I think the solution you have accepted, accepting the amendments of some colleagues, is wrong, that it will not contribute to improving the text of the law. When it comes to this amendment that we have submitted to Article 2, I ask you to reconsider its acceptance, because it is very important that there is guilt in the definition of the offence, as if there was an offence without which it could not even exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21615	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened with full attention to the debates of the first amendment, that is, the amendment submitted to Article 2. Proposal for a law on violations. I can say that the arguments are pretty good with one big, but very important, deficient. The first thing, the Criminal Code applies exclusively to natural persons and the concept of a crime he defines refers to natural persons. The definition of a violation given in this Bill on Violations is a definition so broad that it can cover all persons of criminal liability to which this law applies. So how are you going to say that an offence is a guilty act if a legal person is responsible for a crime or if the person responsible in an organ or legal person is responsible? We can add to that, but you take a nice one, so look at Article 17, I'm sorry, Article 18, article 17 lists the entities of the offence, and Article 18 speaks of the responsibility of the natural person. It says nicely in that article that a person is responsible for an offence that can be found guilty because it has been appropriate and committed an offence with imagination or indiscretion, and whether it was conscious or due and could be aware that such a procedure is prohibited. If we want to cover all the persons of criminal liability listed in the law, which is a natural person, an entrepreneur, a legal person and a responsible person in a legal person, then this definition of the offence is indeed appropriate. Everything you've said is exactly with this supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21617	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21618	Yes, this argument, unlike the indiscretion, drinks more water. However, I would not agree with you. So the problem of bending cannot be completely excluded from legal responsibility. Can a legal person do anything wrong? It's an old question. I remember that question from college. We've been discussing this for a long time. Yeah, he can because he doesn't have legal responsibility. Is that right? If someone doesn't blame him, there's no guilty responsibility, even when it comes to the responsibility of the person responsible in the legal person who objectively takes responsibility for the offences, he's also guilty. With careful analysis of the way in which the offence is committed, when it comes to legal persons, we can come up with a notion of perjury. That remains an open question for a theoretical debate. We have suggested that the concept of curvature be restored to the law because it would not harm the concept of legal persons’ responsibility, and it would bring full clarity when it comes to the responsibility of natural persons. That filigree demarcation, which you were just talking about, it's okay, you can look at the thing that way, but I think a much more correct norm would be to leave the blame as an element of the offence, and then you can, in principle, explain the system and the way the legal person is responsible in the relevant article. So I think that's far better than the solution you've applied here. As far as neglect is concerned, stopping the form of guilt is what we all know.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21619	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would support the government's position, given that most often, what citizens meet is the Law of Infractions, often without any guilt. It's enough from the village to go to the city, to go to a town that's on your municipality, to park somewhere, not to know that there's some kind of parking decision in that city, to limit parking time, to have that decision in place, to come to a judge for violations, and that you can answer for that offence without being aware that you've done anything wrong and that you've come in a position to be punished without guilt. That's why this "against" fits more than "fun," because in order for something to be wronged, he'd have to be aware of his guilt. Speaking of parking, it's customary for public enterprises to already punish the perpetrator who didn't even know he'd committed a crime, so that from the interior of various cities, they come to us for wipers already pointed penalties, so if you didn't pay a 30-dollar text message, or you didn't know you had to pay, then it comes to you, but for wipers, a punishment that has been punished by a public firm. After that, if you don't pay a fine that has been fined by a public firm, and the minister is there, and I ask how it is possible, is it even legal, that someone for 30 dinars should allow an incasant to punish you with, I don't know, 30 times as much as you owe for that parking and other than what you didn't know, besides being punished by the incasants, then when you come to the judge, you should be aware of what you did with your own guilt. As far as legal persons are concerned, this situation is only complicated. Let's say, if the driver overloads your truck, you can be blamed as a legal person because you're guilty, even though you couldn't realistically know if your driver is going to overload that truck or not, whether he's going to commit some kind of traffic violation for whom he fits both the legal and the physical person and I don't know how this company could be blamed or, on the proposal of this amendment, bent. It's very interesting what all our citizens respond to, who punishes them all, I find this particularly interesting when they're being punished by a public enterprise in the city. In some cities this parking lot is charged, in some cities this parking lot is not paid. In every city, you have to do it on your cell phone or buy a card somewhere and you simply don't know it, whether it's going to happen to you that because you dared park it, which is fashion in the last 10 years, your vehicle somewhere, that you end up being blamed for your crimes and that you end up in prison, that you didn't have any guilt. It may even happen to you that your credit runs out, that you weren't aware that you had to have enough credit, that when you went to a market or a city, it might happen that because you didn't have enough credit, you couldn't do it, you could answer it, and if you weren't guilty, which wasn't enough credit to pay for parking obligations that were from case to case, from city to city, prescribed or not prescribed. In a town in a parking lot, you can't park, but on the next one you can't, and it's marked by some very small sign, or some small, very small, small numbers, so that the more citizens when they park, the more they go astray and the more they're exposed to dragon punishment, the first of which is a public enterprise, so if you don't pay the public enterprise, then you risk paying the judge for the offenses to pay a far greater amount, and so I think the term proposed by the government, that this is an illegal act, and that's a big question, but it's not what the promoters wanted to add – it's wrong. So, that face would be because of a parking lot, where it didn't know or know local regulations at all, knowing our units of local self-government they have so many decisions, so many solutions that suggest various-of-the-art punishments, that simply neither legal nor physical persons can absolutely know what they can be punished for, so let's say someone can take your board off the firm, and tomorrow you can already misdemeanorly answer, then you're prescribing incredible sums for pointing out the firm and the board, so if you don't pay for it, and that's your legal obligation to point out, unless you pay for the local self-government, then you end up with the judge for the offense. So, let's say, one board in a small municipality, let's say my Indjia, costs 54,000 dinars of company owners. So he has to settle in the second 54,000 dinar zone just because he has a legal obligation to stand out the company. Some municipality, any one of them, has made a decision, not to impose a penalty, or to prescribe one who has not paid the penalty and the criminal penalty, so a series of those rules is that citizens cannot know at all, that the offence, not only do it out of default, but that they are simply not aware that for certain offences is provided for in certain areas of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21621	National MP Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21622	I was pleased to hear the amendment debate on another member of the proposed law, and I do not think at all that any loss to parliament is that this debate is theoretical and more academical, but of practical importance to the citizens. However, I think that this notion of curvature, which by analogy with the CAP has found its place in the Law on Violations, would actually call for a deeper problem, although Mr. Minister has given a very elegant explanation, why he remains in the proposed form of definition, rather than the one that is suggested by the amendment. I would only, it seems to me, further strengthen the view from one another, over-founded disciplines for every debate on law, from the perspective of ethics, because, in fact, by amendment, it wants, through the introduction of the concept of curvature, to strengthen the position of defence in some hypothetical procedure, and by considering the position of attributability to the subject in the situation of crime. And the subject of attributability of the procedure directly, based on the concept of assumed personality autonomy, is actually about the problem of responsibility. Responsibility is a category that, even in such hypothetical, academic situations in the debates, I don't think, should be underestimated and taken down as an excessive burden from supposed citizens, but rather the opposite, democracy and improvement of social relations require further more emphasis on the subject of personal responsibility. Collectivism and the communist heritage of our society have led us to this easy debate on responsibility, as the assumed category for describing officials, government and state bodies, while in fact the space of freedom has been conquered only with the assumption of the personal, individual responsibilities of each individual in the community, who, through his political team, is trying to regulate his legislation, as well as in this area. It is precisely because this aspect of the attributability of the procedure and of the personal responsibility that is very much including the proposed form of the legal text that we fully support the Minister's explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21623	Mr. Risticevic. Did you want to maybe? No, I don't. I'm sorry. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21624	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, first of all, I want to say that this time, when the opposition amendment was considered, indeed the Ministry and the Government showed good will and that they realized that the opposition could be extremely constructive, that it could have a serious intention to help, not only to try to delay the assembly procedure or distraction, my God, the work of the government. So, I think this is a serious step and it's a big deal that our 10 amendments have been adopted. But, regardless, I wouldn't answer if I didn't think that these amendments, which aren't adopted, weren't extremely important and couldn't be very important for the future, when it comes to the legal system. We were just discussing an amendment which, I say, is more legal-technical in nature, so I am very interested in what the attention of the National Assembly and ministers will be to challenge an amendment that may be essential for the future appearance of the entire criminal procedure and the whole system, as they call "misdiminr" violations, which has so far been neglected in our legal system. What's this about? I'll be brief. Under the existing bill, various institutions can propose violations. So, from the National Assembly, which is quite understandable, because it is done through law, to government regulations, autonomous provinces and local self-government. The point of the amendment is to reduce the number of state authorities and institutions that can lay down regulations by which citizens correspond either financially - cash, or jail time. Since the courts for violations became courts after judicial reform, that they are no longer administrative and administrative authorities, I believe it is extremely important for citizens to have security, that not everyone can prescribe sanctions against them. In that sense, I have submitted an amendment saying that it can only be done by law or by a certain decision of the Autonomous Province. When we talked last time about this law, when we talked in principle, I left the dilemma and said – Mr. Minister, maybe you should leave local self-governments, it's a serious topic of thought, because there are certain rules of the type of garbage being carried out, which are jurisdiction. But I don't see any reason for the government to be able to prescribe in future regulations because the government is proposing laws to the National Assembly. If he proposes the law, he can also propose a regulation. I think it'll lead to more legal certainty. What I'm saying is, by reading the explanation why the amendment was rejected, one thing that I really think is more demagogue than real, when it comes to the reason for the refusal of the amendment. It is said that a large number of violations are now foreseen by regulations, that citizens or firms, however, would not respond. That's not true, you've already put in transitional and final provisions a longer period of time for law enforcement. I think it's quite enough in that time period to propose amendments to laws that would cover, and there aren't many violations of regulations, and it would lead to legal certainty. I ask Mr. Minister to consider my amendment, and of course I call on everyone, ruling and opposition MPs' clubs to support the day of voting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21625	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21626	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I am sure that it is possible in the next seven months, and in seven months, this law will begin to apply, too, to regulate all the violations necessary, especially those contained in government regulations. As far as we know, an omnibus is being prepared to cover violations in different laws. I don't see any reason why this omnibus law wouldn't provide for all those violations that are now foreseen by government regulations. In principle, it is absolutely unacceptable that the government has the right to provide for a certain offence for which you must pay a fine and for which you are convicted by a criminal court. So they're no longer the law enforcement authorities, now we've got criminal courts. If we have a misdemeanor and if he imposes a sentence in a single procedure that is extremely similar to a criminal case, then the violations would have to be prescribed by law. I think it is a European standard and that we have to go in that direction and that we will have to change our legislation. So think again. We shouldn't allow it, and now it's an opportunity to change that, that the government can bring about a regulation every day that can be punished by citizens. Any fine, if you don't have the money to pay, can be replaced by a prison sentence. We're getting into a situation where this guy says, "I make a regulation that much and that's what you have to pay for, and then people who don't have to pay go to jail." Under this law, it is unacceptable for prison sentences to be prescribed anything but the law. Here, in one indirect way, you can go to prison for the punishment she predicted and for the violation that the government has provided for in the regulation. Also, when it comes to local self-government, they have their specifics, but I have to tell you, it seems to me that this is all leading us into one serious legal uncertainty. Something is true in the territory of Smederevo municipality and something else in the territory of Smederevska Palanka municipality. As citizens will distinguish that, it's a good question, and the result can be such a punishment that you can eventually go to jail for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21627	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21628	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listen carefully to the subject of the amendment and I say again that I would accept it if everything were taken into account and everything was soundly resonated. But let's get the hell out of here, like you said. You can't commit someone to something that's true, say, in the town of Smederev, and it doesn't apply in the Fireman, so you'll lead to legal inequality. You know, with this logic of leadership, we can say -- you can't commit someone who lives in the territory of the AP Vojvodina to something that doesn't apply in central Serbia or in Kosovo and Metohija, and that will lead to legal inequality. Simply, the nature of the offense is such that it can be prescribed. As for prescribing violations by the government's regulation, I'm thinking about giving a specific example or a brighter example, so you can see how many of these arguments you've made don't stand. First thing, since there have been violations, there have also been violations that can be determined by the government's regulation. I'll give you an example. For example, you have subsidies given to farmers. A man gets subsidies for farming, for example, tollers or gets subsidies for fruit so far or sown grain to a certain extent, and then that money, instead of using it for those purposes, takes and buys a luxury car. It's a felony. I've given the most drastic example, but there are various other machinerys related to the subsidy. You do not meet certain obligations prescribed by the Government regulation, on the basis of which you are granted a subsidy. I gave it as an example. Here, I'll give you an example of something we've already discussed here in the past few weeks. We have established a strategy to fight corruption. The strategy provides that each ministry and every state body will have officials tasked with submitting quarterly reports on the implementation of the action plan and anti-corruption strategy. If they don't, the responsible person at the head of the organ will have to answer for it in violation. You want to move on? You say - the court cannot be obliged to judge under the regulation. The Regulation is a sublegal act, the courts also apply a sublegal act. If not, we wouldn't know who's responsible for where. Why? Because the responsible persons are prescribed by systems, and that's not the law. So, simply, your arguments are half-assed. If you want us to ensure the application of the law and the unity of the legal order, then you need to be managed by this. On the other hand, I honestly think that within a certain extent of the local self-government unit, they must be authorised to provide for the functioning of local self-government in the entire territory and in full capacity through a system of criminal punishment. I don't know why it would bother anyone. You can say it's a harder job for a criminal judge, because he needs to be well informed and familiar with all the acts he needs to apply. That's his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21629	The word is Mr. Konstantinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21630	Minister, you're re-mixing criminal acts and misdemeanors. Your examples are bad. We had the same story on the Committee about juvenile law. You're mixing crimes and violations. Infringements are the easiest possible offenses and are not crimes. The second thing, that there's something going on since there's been violations, doesn't mean it's good. Now's the chance to change that and improve. Go ahead, you need a little more courage to get into this reform. So not everything that used to be -- well, some things need to change. When the Brussels Agreement is signed, you can no longer commit anyone to anything in Kosovo and Metohija, so I think you're absolutely wrong about that argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21631	The word is Mr. Micunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21632	I want to get involved in this debate based on our legal history. I won't go that far, but I can tell you that this problem of crime and crime is extremely important for freedom, because it cost millions of people freedom and many lives. In totalitarian regimes, where all power was concentrated in the hands of the administrative authority, or party, it was possible to make different decisions, and it was mainly governed by regulations. And that offense was a key concept. Millions of people went to the so-called so-called Soviet Union. work repairs in Siberia and many have never returned. If I tell you that the judge for the violations of the second district of Belgrade, punished tens of thousands of people in 1949 and 1950 for the infractions unclear and sent them to Goli Island, where they could stay as long as the police authorities wanted them to. That is why this issue is extremely important, as it is entering into the problem of the relationship between the administrative authorities and the legislative and judicial authorities. Without that clear limit, without that division, we will never truly enter the area of true freedom and the security of citizens. That's where the problem lies. So I hope we never go back to those times again. But, on this occasion, by the time I started to say, it might be convenient to one day clean up the entire criminal law and one decision by this assembly, we give up the repressive laws that violated human rights. It's kind of an obligation to do that. Many countries also do so for some works of the 17th century, and today they are justified. That's how we clean this up. We have a series of regulations that were completely illegal. Incidentally, another concerns me, which is the introduction of a law on moral political resemblance, which was passed, and then the Serbian Parliament, unauthorized, outside the constitution, decided to remove eight professors of the Faculty of Philosophy from the professor's post. That decision stands for shame today. They also proved that the constitutional courts were inconsistencies. We've got to wipe that out, too. Not only do we erase certain things that were neither personal nor personal, I don't know, the Crown Prince or anyone else, that he could get a passport, but here it concerns thousands of people who after, by analogy, in municipalities, anywhere, have introduced a regulation that must have a certificate from the Socialist Union of Moral-political Similarity, to be a teacher, a professor or anything. There are hundreds of people who lost their jobs then, based on such regulations. The violations, therefore, must be discussed and discussed in 1991, at the beginning of the exactly multi-party system in the Serbian Parliament. It was the first step, when we tried to make that difference and remove the possibility that the government, regulations or the Law on Infractions would put a series of political gestures that were then, of course, fatal to the citizens. I remember, since 1968, even before that, the Resistance, how students on the streets were arrested and sentenced to office by a judge without any criminal proceedings. So all of this led to one lawlessness that corresponded to certain non-democracy systems. Today is an opportunity, I can also share this law in the most part, because it has been done in working groups for a long time, there is awareness today, what counterpart Konstantinović and colleague Homen spoke of, that at the threshold of our negotiations and entering Europe, let us not be fooled by entering Europe, we give up one piece of legal sovereignty, we need our laws legally to comply with Europe. We better do it now, so we don't wait for any negotiations, so let's do it then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21633	The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21634	In addition to this amendment that's been submitted here, I must say the following and put some distinct opinion there. When it comes to the congregations of municipalities, the congregations of cities, the congregations of autonomous provinces, we think it's okay that they can prescribe violations. It's a solid solution, and in that part, I don't mind. Here the problem arises in something else, in our struggle, and ours and yours, with anachronic regulations, with something that has fallen away as a civilization solution. Therefore, the executive power cannot assume on itself the regulation of anything, especially a violation, and if it can, it must constitute an exception and the rules adopted by the executive authority only have one function, to implement the law. If anything is prescribed by the municipal council, it only prescribes it to implement the decision of the congregation of the congregation. The same goes for the government. If that's how we establish the system, it won't be anachron, then you don't have the rule of law, you have the rule of law, not the rule of law. The government can't prescribe violations. She could, I agree with you, but we all need to say together - she can't anymore, because this system will not allow it. Another important reason. You know that the general principle of criminal acts, from Roman law to this day, is ignored by yuris night, and that means - ignorance of the right harms. Who? All citizens. Everyone has a duty to know the law. If, in the circumstances, they do not know him, it does not justify them if they are in violation of the law. However, it is our duty to do everything in our power to get as many citizens as possible to know the right. One of the best ways to ensure that a law or obligation not to be violated is that it is legally binding and that criminal acts are prescribed by law or local environment, at the very least, by the decision of the congregation, the city’s congregation, etc. If we go to regulations to prescribe violations, first, it is not in the constitutional function of the regulation. The regulation, under the Constitution, cannot do that. Let's think about it. Two, we are in violation of the basic principle, and that is, which is even more than ignoring yuris night, which is the principle of learning the law, the principle of the right of a citizen to know the right and to have an opportunity to know it. I know it's all about the official messenger, but not every number of the official messenger is read with the same attention. Take care of it from now on. If you're not ready to accept the amendment today, then we expect that with the fall, with the other proposals we've made, we'll come up with amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21635	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21636	Thank you. Mr. Minister, what I would like you to understand is that in these amendments, where I see that we have support and other parliamentary clubs, there is indeed good intentions and goodwill. Good intention, because if I am not mistaken, the good policy of this government is to continue to move towards European integration. This is something we're gonna have to change. I completely agree, who can't answer the amendment today, but that should happen in September and I'd like to see you again in Parliament with amendments to the law. This is not the only problem, in a few places later, you said our amendments couldn't be adopted because it was similar in the Criminal Code. It's not that problem either, let's change the package and the Criminal Code, it's something that I think for the normative department of the Justice Department shouldn't be a problem, to make quick and easy amendments to the laws or proposals of the new laws. Why did I answer that? You said there was a danger that if regulations don't pass certain regulations, there are no violations, there is a certain sphere of social life that will be impunity. Here you have set out a concrete strategy to fight corruption, which is an extremely important document for any society and which is true. You are right, it should foresee the existence of future violations, but these violations provided for in the strategy will not be pictured in a regulation that will be adopted for the implementation of the strategy, but we all know well in the National Assembly, that there is a Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. The law already contains criminal acts and criminal acts. So, specifically, if the strategy has provided for a new offence, it is only a matter of amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency law, which you, as a minister, are normally responsible for defending in the National Assembly. I therefore believe that all that the regulations and regulations prescribe infringements already exist, which would only be amended and complemented by one member. Of course, if this is complicated, if there is a failure of ministers to enter the Assembly with this code, there is what counterpart Konstantinovic said, one omnibus law, I think it is a question, when regulations may be working for a month or two days and again to see each other in September, because I think you will also do yourself a favor, because whether you are going to change now or in some future period, you will have to agree this with some basic standards. I repeat, I fully agree with Mr. Micunovic and Mr. Aligrudic, the point is that citizens know why they are responding, to be protected from the state, and that can only be if any type of criminal act or criminal act is provided for by law and by will or decision of the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21637	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21638	It's partial again. You mention the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and at no time have I talked about the supervision carried out by the Agency, but I have chosen very carefully, which gives me the right to doubt whether you have read the strategy or not, because the strategy of this new mechanism of meeting the action plan foresees, unlike the previous strategy, and the way I explained it, absolutely implies that, not what you were talking about. I'm glad he's a professor. Micunovic gave, indeed, a retrospective of abuse of criminal responsibility in the previous period, but I know, I am convinced that he also knows that the regulations he mentioned have long been put out of force and that they do not apply. As regards the compliance of these rules with EU regulations, that is to say, with EU standards, and the EU itself brings in its own bodies a sublegal act that withdraws criminal and administrative responsibility. I deliberately single out both of them, criminal and administrative responsibility. So there is the possibility of such punishment, not under the law, but on the basis of that act brought by the administrative authority, and that criminal punishment. If it turns out in the screening that this needs to be changed, it won't be the first or the last thing. Simply, for such a change that I hope at some point, perhaps, when Europe is ready for it, too, we should be ready to do so. At this point, we can't do that, because our system works that way and it's not prepared for that change, nor can it be prepared in seven months. As for abuse of criminal liability, a misdemeanor, which leads to the threat of human rights and civil liberties, it is absolutely on the same line that these abuses are inadmissible and that this must no longer happen, but I am not aware that this happened in Serbia during a previous period of 20 years, probably not in a recent period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21639	Replica, Mr. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21640	Mr. Minister, I'm lucky your regulations don't apply anymore, and I didn't talk about it, I even said - that fortunately not. But if you stop by Dahau once, you'll see a big steamer next to that Ohio that says, "When they burn books, they'll burn people." There's another Santana who says, and it's in the stone "What they want to forget, they're ready to repeat." What I'm saying is that it never happens again, and that's very important. As for erasing, the decision to throw out of the university, the Serbian Parliament and its decision, some kind of lex specialis, it was never annulled, because it was not in any legal order system or any invitation to any special law other than that which was. So I would just like to say once again, what I've been saying, in this sense, is that we open up a field of freedom and security for citizens as much as possible, in accordance with the trends that exist in the world today, and in Europe they are binding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21641	The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21642	Minister, you said - these regulations were put out of force and were not in such a close past situation. We, and most in this room, remember very well the end of the 1990s. We remember the situation in the field of information, and we remember that the organ of violations on Masarika Street day after day gave dragon sentences to various newspapers and shut down the newspaper one after another. One of those newspapers was the Daily Telegraph, which received a dragon's sentence, and then, after they failed to shut it down, Curuvija was killed. So the consequences of what the court does for violations can be terrible. For that reason, as I understand it, other parliamentary groups agree that at least we can prevent regulations from prescribing violations, that the government as an executive body can prescribe something that all citizens in this country can be punished for. In this regard, I am prepared to make amends or to schedule a session of the Committee on Justice, where, together, at the session of the Committee, this amendment would formulate together in another way and be expelled from the law of the Regulation and to remain all that concerns local self-government and AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21643	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21644	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I've been thinking about telling you this after your presentation, but I think I'm going to have to expand the discussion a little bit, unbound just since I'm also a proponent of this amendment. The question is, why are the sessions of this assembly public? That's not because you and I are going to agree on everything we think or don't think, nor because I expect you to accept all my suggestions, nor because I've come here to criticise you senselessly. I made my point, which I think is legitimate, I'm glad I didn't stay alone, that other parliamentary groups of the opposition are thinking the same thing that I and the other amendment promoters think, I don't think there's any reason for you to address me like that, or the other amendment promoters, because if any discussion was constructive and good, it was this one today. I don't think we've gone too far on the subject. You're telling me -- did you even read the Anti-Corruption Strategy? Mr. Minister, I find such a finding, expressed in such a way, offensive. I don't think I offended you with a single word in my presentation. You know very well, when you ask such a question, that I was one of the people who was working on previous anti-corruption strategies and who rested well and on what you later changed, complemented, etc. You can refuse this amendment, you can accept it. It's something that voters will appreciate, there's someone who might be looking at it, but I ask you to try to hold a certain level in the discussion, because I think I speak very politely to you, and I expect you to, too, to send such a message to us and to the citizens who are watching us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21645	Minister Selakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21646	I thank you for your observation, and I believe that it contributes to the quality of the congregation debate that is getting better and better every time, even if I have the opportunity and the satisfaction to attend. In the same way that you said, I can say that I could be offended by the fact that you said that something should be prescribed by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and you were talking about my words that had nothing to do with it. That's why I said – that part of the Strategy is brand-new. I also allow that you may have mixed up, overlooked, happened to me, happened to anyone who works. But just go back to it, see what you said, compare it to what I said, it has nothing to do with the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, and you talked about it all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21647	National MP Marko Atlagic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21648	Dear President, this amendment to my colleague Srdjan Mikovic and my colleague, Mr Homen, is proposed not to be supported because I believe there is no valid reason for a different legal solution than as defined by the Government, or the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. I believe it is necessary to maintain the possibility of the infringements being prescribed, undermining, and the regulations of the government and the bodies of the units of local self-government, since infringements of these regulations also constitute violations. The solutions contained in the proposal for this law were contained, as the Government has also stated, in all previous laws governing criminal liability. There is no reason why such a solution should not continue to be prescribed, especially if it has proved to be very effective in practice. The solution proposed by the amendment of counterparts Homen and Mikovic and other colleagues would lead to impunity for a large number of violations prescribed by the various applicable regulations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which it has adopted with the aim of law enforcement, not law enforcement, as well as infringements contained in the regulations of the local self-government body to protect the exercise of citizens' rights at local level. That is why I propose that this amendment be rejected as a whole and that a legal solution be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21649	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21650	Mr. Minister, listening carefully to this very important debate, I think this is one of the central issues and that it is indeed one big step forward in relation to the existing solution, our parliamentary group is the position between the applicant of the amendment and your position. For what? If we return the courts to the judicial system of power, which is a normal and good solution and we remove them from the authority of the administration, then we need to know clearly which and what authority they are responsible for. The congregations, the National Assembly, the circuit assembly, are competent to make laws and appropriate decisions, including decisions that prescribe criminal responsibilities. Your argument regarding, for example, the agricultural incentive law points to what we said when we passed that law, that he left much to be regulated by regulations, and regulations should in fact be only an auxiliary means to enforce that law. Then we come up with one illogicality - what is the authority of the assembly, all three, now we leave it to the executive authorities to order their decisions or regulations that should only be an auxiliary means to enforce the law, to prescribe criminal liability. That is why we think that with the experiences of the past, which has been discussed by the distinguished professor Dragoljub Micunovic, we can talk not only about the abuses of criminal courts because there have simply been many situations where people, and the first right-wings in Serbia are deprived of life without a single decision, or by the decision of someone who then represented military power. Many have gone to Goli Island without any solution, without any decision. People spent years and years there. We have had terrible abuses in recent times. I was myself in 1993 when our MP was knocked out in the National Assembly, Mihajlo Markovic. When we protested, I was in prison with a married couple, Draskovic, and I know how the judge acted. She spread her arms and said to the writer – the boy defends himself perfectly. Of course, I'm an excellent defender when I'm telling the truth, but that didn't interfere with the court's political order to order everyone to impose prison sentences, and then the opposition leader almost to death was beaten to death and killed here in front of the National Assembly by a police officer. Today, you don't know who killed a cop who, by chance, was our sympathiser and whose uncle spoke a year before that at a protest for the Vidovdan Assembly. I could talk a lot about how some parties were acting at the time who said that we overstepped powers and that the protesters were committing violence against the police, which was not true. What is crucial to me is that in strict respect of the authority of the congregations, we separate what is the jurisdiction and task of the congregation from what is the authority of the executive authority. First of all, I think of the government, the province's executive council and the larger municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21651	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21652	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's go back to the explanation the government gave when she refused this amendment. The reasons give rise to two specific things. First, it concerns continuity, since you are calling for earlier legal solutions regarding the regulation of violations. This is one thing, and secondly, you are calling for the possibility of many violations being unpunished, because of earlier solutions to the regulation of the offence. I would really understand that holding your continuity. In the end, this government is also a continuity with that power of the 1990s, but since it is the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, made up of many young people, it is more natural to distance yourself from that continuity in some ways. Here's your chance. Come on, highlight the role, the superior and priority role of the representative body. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a representative body, it is also a Assembly of the province of Vojvodina and these are local congregations. Is it not more natural for each type of offence to pass through these representative bodies, legislative bodies, or bodies that make certain decisions? Is it not more natural as to transparency, public and public control regarding the regulation of violations, when done by congregations, republican, circuit or republican? It's primarily a European standard. Every time the Government has the opportunity to prescribe certain violations with its regulations, you will allow it to be the authority of the executive authority that oversteps and some standards that are so high in Europe in terms of decision-making and these violations. We have a very bad experience as a state regarding these decisions made by the government by ad hoc, even in terms of regulations. It was mentioned earlier what was done when the misdemeanor courts worked full steam, based on some of the executive rules, when to this extent the repression was raised to the highest possible level. We can't let that happen anymore. Here's a chance to do something about it. You don't have to adopt this amendment, but let's let the committee propose an amendment that would be acceptable to you too, and in fact, it would go in that direction if the executive authority had no possibility of prescribing violations and in that sense punishing citizens of Serbia. Therefore, you can correct the legal text, which we used to say, that everything in everything is not so bad, but here's a chance for you to really do a lot of things in good faith, so that you show that you really think you're changing the value system in Serbia, and that it doesn't just stay at the declarative level. Please, take my time from my representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21653	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21654	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to say a few words in favor of why the minister is right and the government, when they have that attitude. We can pass the best possible law, however, if it does not fit the moment in which it should be implemented, then we can indeed theoretically support it from different positions, but in practice it brings bad results. In that sense, I would just like to point out one example, just when it comes to the Vojvodina and the work of the Vojvodina administration, in which way it is seen that it is really important to have a regulated legal system, to have a regulated state, to have regulated state bodies, and then you can also talk about the relevant effects of a certain law. You mentioned information on the republican level. I'm going to say in one case, information at the Duke's level, and you're going to see that it's really about what kind of system you have, not just what law you have. Although there is a decision by the Vojvodina Assembly on the financing of a list in Vojvodina since 2006 and 2007, not by the government of the AP Vojvodina, but by a decision by the secretary in the government of the AP Vojvodina, there has been a non-financing of the list, although no decision has been taken at the AP Vojvodina Assembly. So it's a typical example of the situation that we can make decisions in the congregations of the municipalities, in the Vojvodina Assembly, in the Serbian Parliament, and if we don't arrange the system, we're still where we were, in a state that doesn't work. So why is the minister right? We must go through a different set of measures to regulate the state, and therefore we are in the EU accession process, not to make demands today that we may need to meet in five years, because we are simply not in a position today to respond to that moment. That's why a lot of things are going to go unpunished, and that's why we can't answer that moment through these procedures that you're talking about, because in order to do that, we have to have an independent judiciary, and we're still in the process of creating an independent judiciary. We have to have independent misdemeanor courts, we are in the process of creating that, but we simply have serious burdens from before. That is the only reason why we need to create the possibility to respond properly, quickly and efficiently, at a certain point to the Government and in such a way as to really create a guarantee for all citizens that someone is caring for those citizens at a given time, and that is the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, who controls the government. If the government adopts a certain position, then there is a Constitutional Court and everyone who can regulate it. So we have to fight for the functioning of the system, not for the partial solutions that we display as a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21655	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21656	I'll be very brief. Here, I'll make a suggestion on how to get out of this. We've already heard that proposal, but let's define it. It would be good for the chairman of the Justice Committee to call on the board and if colleagues from the DS would like to amend their amendment in that part to remove this ban in relation to the City and SO congregations prescribing violations that we or most in the Assembly think it is a natural right, then to go to at least forbid the Government to prescribe infringements. By what logic can the Government prescribe violations, and it is not given, for example, to the municipal council to prescribe violations? If the government can prescribe violations, then it can be the municipal council, and we know it can't, it doesn't say in the law. So let's just, if we can call the Justice Committee during the day, let's get this thing straight, let the minister accept it and move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21657	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21658	We've heard most of the discussions heading towards getting out of the law so the regulation can prescribe a violation. Absolutely, the DS is agreed to make a change on the board. Most parliamentary groups, as I have heard, agree that regulations should not be prescribed. There are some colleagues who feel they need a regulation. I can't understand these arguments when they come from the people's representatives. I can understand the minister's arguments, because the minister is in the government, so he wants to be able to prescribe a violation whenever the government thinks it should and that it can be done every Thursday at the government's session, but it's neither legal certainty nor we as representatives of the citizens in the Serbian Parliament can allow the government to have the possibility as executive power to prescribe acts for which someone can be punished. So, a proposal, but a proposal for a committee. I think we need an answer to him giving us a minister, whether the minister is ready to discuss on the board how to define this member differently, or to amend the amendment that we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21659	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21660	I got beat up by my colleague Konstantinovic. Let me just say that I am fully in favour of my colleague Aligrudic's proposal to propose an amendment to the amendments on the board. If there's a readiness with Mr. Minister, I don't think we're gonna be a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21661	Since no one's answering for word after this amendment anymore, we're moving on to the next one. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21662	This amendment was accepted by the government and it became an integral part of the text, so they wouldn't add anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21663	Okay. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21664	This requires an explanation. What did we want with these? I don't know if you understand our amendment, Mr. Minister. I see you turned him down. From what I read in the explanation, I don't think it's quite understood, and I have to explain. If the perpetrator commits a violation by crossing the bounds of the necessary defense or by overcoming the extreme urgency, you have suggested, as it has been in the regulations so far, that the perpetrator may be fined. However, we think that in the area of crime, as easier forms of illegality than crimes, we can go freely to different nuances of responsibility and attitude towards action, or to the very penalty. Namely, the perpetrator who crosses the border of the necessary defense, who determines the crossing of the bounds of the necessary defense? So there were elements of the necessary defense, but the boundaries were exceeded. An institute has been introduced, so it's an institute to cross the border of the necessary defence, as the institute itself needs to defend itself. Who appreciates that? Appreciates the one who makes the decision in a misdemeanor, court. If the court assesses that there was an institute overstepping the bounds of the necessary defense, there's no need to write that the perpetrator can be punished more lightly. It is necessary to say that they will be punished more lightly. Now let's get this straight, so there's no misunderstanding. Mild punishment in this context means punishment, the possibility of punishment below the minimum prescribed penalty. It's a milder punishment in this context. That doesn't make the unsub irresponsible if he crosses the border of the necessary defense. So overstepping the extreme necessary limit of the necessary defense makes the perpetrator responsible. He will be punished, but we suggest that he will be less punished. What does it mean to be slightly less punished? What does that mean? It doesn't mean anything. In the context of any other argument for a judge, or an assessment of any other evidence in the proceedings relating to the person of the perpetrator, his earlier conviction for violations, his overall conduct, overstepping the border of the necessary defence does not mean anything, these are two completely separate things and must be fully considered separately. So the penalty in the range – to which the judge assesses, what punishment he will give to the offender, whether he will be punished with minimum punishment, maximum or in the range – depends on a number of other circumstances. Not overstepping the bounds of the necessary defence or extreme urgency can be the basis for an evaluation in that range, but only for milder punishment. If that's the case, then let's make it mandatory to punish ourselves more lightly. In your explanation, you said you couldn't accept the amendment because it is necessary that there be a clear difference between the necessary defence and the over-defense of the necessary defence, etc. There's a clear difference in this proposal. So whoever does the work in the necessary defense he's not responsible, he can't be punished at all, he's not responsible. And if anyone goes beyond the limits of the necessary defense, he'll be punished and held accountable. That's the difference. She's not being pushed by our amendment. We're just saying he'll be a little less punished. Because what's the point of an institute crossing the border of defence, if we leave the judge at will, is he even going to apply the institute to ease his sentence or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21665	The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21666	I really can't understand why this amendment wasn't accepted. I want to show you that you in Article 14 have contradictions, so attitude one is contrary to point 2. You should read the exact same attitude. In the first position, it is said – there is no violation if the action prescribed is done in extreme urgency. So there's no misdemeanor. Paragraph 2 states: The ultimate necessity exists if the offence is committed. Wait, is there no offense if he's in extreme need or if there's a breach? That's why we've submitted an amendment to resolve this misunderstanding and I think the amendment is good. We suggest that in point 2 instead of saying "the offence has been committed", that it be replaced by the words "work done" and thus remove this discrepancy between attitude 1 and attitude 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21667	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21668	Yeah, that's about the same thing. Since it is the 2nd Amendment, it now refers specifically to extreme urgency. It's the same explanation and I'll repeat it briefly. Please at least give a reasonable answer here on the spot. So if someone does an act of extreme urgency, no responsibility, no action. So it doesn't exist. And if anyone goes beyond the limits of extreme urgency, so he commits an offence, what shall we say to him, that he may be punished more gently? I understand the difference very well. If we don't say it can be slightly punished, then there are no elements to mitigate the penalty below minimum. No, I understand that completely. It's not a dispute between us. You think it's a revolutionary thing that we've made it possible for the court to impose a lesser penalty than a minimum on this basis. It's not enough, Mr. Selakovic, for a crime it's not enough, for a crime it may be, but for a crime it's not. It has to stand here for us - it's going to be easier to punish. So, if the Institute of Excessive Borders is established, a sentence less than minimum must be imposed. It's a simple sea, otherwise it doesn't make sense to establish the institute of overstepping the border of extreme urgency. If there are some other elements that are difficult for the perpetrator, those with the excess of the limit of extreme urgency don't make any sense. It doesn't matter. They have no meaning, nor can these two things be put in the same plane, nor can they be decided in the same context.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21669	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dragoljub Micunovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21670	Minister, we have not received an answer whether or not you agree that we agree with the Committee on the possibility of eradicating the regulations from a member of the law to which we have proposed the amendment. We didn't get an answer to any of the last amendments, or any of our DSS colleagues, or our amendments. Does that mean we'll be talking by the end of the day, but we'll be talking to the walls and no one will answer? As for the amendment to Article 18, we suggested that, after the word "non-haul" be put to the point and that the "non-fat" should not be explained and that the words were deleted: "and it was conscious or it was due and it could be known that such a procedure was prohibited" and so on. There's no need. This law defines the 20th and the suspension and defines the imagination. It's all written. I can't understand why you insist on it. Please explain to me why you insist on keeping these words in article 18?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21671	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21672	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the amendment I have proposed wanted to make as clear as possible the text of the proposed member of the law, given that in the existing law, that is, as the bill says, is insufficient in my opinion and clearly defines the concept of a natural person. If this kind of text were to be kept, in which case it would, in some way, be my belief, have quite a broad interpretation of which natural persons the member refers. In any case, I think precision would give a far clearer opportunity for this concept to be fully understood. That is why the amendment is in that sense and is set up, that the managing authority, if it fails to exercise control or control over a person who, at the time of the offence, was authorised to act on behalf of a legal person, or a person who is employed in a legal person and performs affairs on the findings of the managing authority and commits an offence due to such an offence, will, in any event, suffer the consequences of the offence. Of course, by interpreting the law as it is proposed, it could be observed that it is precisely that physical person. I'm afraid that in the event that there is some broader interpretation, it can be expressed that it does not exclusively refer to persons who are attached to organs in which they are employed or employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21673	Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21674	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a good opportunity to thank colleague Olgica Batic for the amendment he has proposed and briefly to explain why this law on violations, proposed by the Ministry of Justice, is new to the law we have so far. One of the big newspapers is to very precisely define the criminal liability of a legal person, which in translation means more power to happen what unfortunately happened often, which is that when the owner of a company assesses that a legal person will be punished by some offence, perhaps for some serious crime, and for some serious money, faster-better that legal person, the company sends into bankruptcy, liquidate, shut down, and thus avoids justice. Very often, such activities and the state were being cut off for the amount to be charged on behalf of the criminal penalty. Very often, from such illegal activities, that is, not to say dirty activities and citizens and individuals who are damaged, they also remain suspended for their part of the damage compensation, or some other amount of funds they should receive under the law. The proposed law has introduced a rule that the successors of a legal person, so that new legal person, a new company, a new company, or a limited liability company, established by the previous owner, are responsible for the offence. In that sense, the amendment, Col. Batic, makes the law no-technically more precise, to avoid any misunderstandings in the future. In one word, it is good that such an amendment has been accepted by the Ministry of Justice, because in the future, it will no longer be possible for better unconscious owners of legal societies, companies to shut down their businesses, send them to bankruptcy, and thus avoid paying the fines. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind the citizens who are watching this and all the honourable MPs that the minister has accepted 23 amendments on this law, which I think proves on one hand and, of course, the constructive nature of all the MPs, practically everyone has submitted amendments, but indeed the constructiveity of the Ministry of Justice itself and indeed one maximum commitment that this law, which is of course very important for our European path, may be adopted in the day of voting and without voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21675	The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21676	Thank you. I just wanted a brief comment. I think it's a good thing this amendment was adopted. It is no longer possible to avoid the legal person's responsibility if he changes his status, so that legal person, whether it's bankruptcy or something else, but that's not a bad solution when it comes to violations. I would like to remind myself that this parliament, this assembly majority, has adopted amendments to the Budgetary System Law, is a completely different solution that goes to the detriment of several hundred thousand employees, which is that a legal person who is in bankruptcy or restructuring and cannot pay obligations in relation to pension and disability insurance, that these debts are outdated. Very, I'd say, one policy of double arches. On the one hand, we are chasing legal persons, and when they are bankrupt and bankrupt that they cannot avoid their responsibility at the level of the infringement procedure, and when it comes to the interests of the employees, then we are less painful, or less willing to protect their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21677	National MP Olgica Batic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 39th amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21678	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has accepted two amendments to the LDP and we believe that this improved the text of the law on violations. This amendment, which we are now discussing, has not been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we really remain in the position that fines for individuals of 150,000 dinars are foreseen, and therefore our amendment was that such punishment could be maximum of 20,000 dinars. It is also a great punishment that you prescribed by law and for private entrepreneurs, which can be up to 500,000 dinars. We think it shouldn't be more than 100,000 dinars. If the average salary in Serbia is about 40,000 dinars, and if citizens working with private entrepreneurs receive a salary of 15,000 to 20,000 dinars, then if they are punished for some offence, e.g. they have not been parked or have no court prescribed for the disposal of garbage, which is prescribed by the decision of the local self-government unit, the judge for the offence may impose a fine of 5,000 to 150,000 dinars. When such an employee receives a salary of 20,000 dinars, e.g. gets a fine of 30,000 dinars, I'm fully convinced that such a person will take a vacation and prefer to go to prison for 30 days or 20, depending on how much punishment he has, but pay a fine he can't pay. If you had accepted the amendment to change the sentence of prison instead of with a thousand dinars and to make three thousand dinars, I think it would have done a good thing. This way, you'll have big expenses for the RS budget. In this way and with such high penalties, you will not make any revenue for the RS budget. Minister, I don't know how much you know since units of local self-government have been given the right to prescribe their decisions in violation. Some units of local self-government have pointless penalties for violations, and nobody else is in control. So private entrepreneurs, e.g. tailors, dry cleaning can, by law and by such decisions, pay the fine not of 500 but of 250 thousand dinars. That would mean automatic closure of entrepreneurial operations. We really believe that as Government, you should have shown more hearing, regardless of the fact that there have been so many penalties so far. You said in the principle debate that it was a very small degree of payability of criminal penalties. Doesn't this show you that people and citizens and private entrepreneurs can't pay such punishment? The fact is, we have a million unemployed. How do you expect such an unemployed person to pay a fine of 150 grand? What's he supposed to do? Selling property or some inherited land? If you'd listened to our proposal, I think most of the citizens would have managed to pay such criminal penalties. This is how criminal punishments are very repressive, and I think that with a fine of 10,000 dinars or five you can lead to citizens no longer committing crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21679	Minister Selakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21680	Namely, the Law on Violations prescribes and predicts what a criminal range will be. Of course, at no time do I dispute the current situation which is a difficult economic situation, but I also remind you that the cheapest thing to do is to obey regulations and not to commit violations. Is a fine of 150,000 dinars a great penalty? Is that a big deal? It certainly is in Serbia. Is it a great punishment? The question is, what are they saying? Other regulations provide for penalties of 150 thousand dinars as a criminal maximum. The problem is that these regulations generally give you an extremely wide range. On the other hand, protection goods in some of these laws are so valuable that the offender should be punished so much. If someone is driving without a driver's license for the category that belongs to that vehicle and thus endangers both their own and others' safety, it certainly needs to be quite punished, so there's a penalty range of 100 to 120 thousand dinars. If someone drives an unregistered vehicle, too. There's still a line to know. It's not known to me that for some of the things that you mentioned people are dragonishly punished. It doesn't ring a bell, and it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. In any case, this must improve the supervision to be carried out by the competent ministry towards units of local self-government and autonomous province. When you look at several provisions of different laws that are prescribed high penalties for natural persons, such as fines, a large range is unacceptable, a law on basic education and education, from 5,000 to 100,000 dinars. Watch out for discretionary decision-making. Is that good? I don't think it's good at all, but it's not up to the Law of Infractions to regulate something like that. However, when you see what will be punished, i.e. who will be punished, the director and the responsible person of the school will be punished if the school conducts an examination contrary to the provisions of the law, does not keep the prescribed records, does not run against the provisions of this law or issues a public remedy contrary to the provisions of this law. What I would point out among these laws that prescribe high penalties for natural persons, when it comes to violations, is especially the Nature Protection Act. I think that's where we should all agree. As said earlier, we are calling for European standards, European standards are extremely high and demanding when it comes to environmental protection. If we had more effective application of these laws, I believe that our environment would be much more protected and much cleaner. This law provides, for example, a penalty range of 25,000 to 150,000 dinars. The problem is that the member who prescribes the infringements has a total of 28 positions and that the member is classified in violations of different types, instead of being divided into several members. Therefore, I think that the criminal range, as a criminal range, given the number of offences, predicts that the value of the protective goods is, therefore, the criminal range which may at this time be the most acceptable. You can't punish someone who's unauthorized to drive a motor vehicle with 20,000 dinars. What did you do? So I have an understanding of what you're saying. This means that there are areas where surveillance needs to be strengthened, and how. I hope, in the next few months and a new law on inspection and inspection services, an extremely important and extremely important law awaits us, and also after the adoption of this law within three months and the Omnibus Law, which must be prepared by the Ministry, and not only people from practice and criminal courts will be involved in the work of the task force, but people from the competent ministries, who are just doing this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21681	The word has the People's MP Radmil Gerov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21682	Mr. Minister, I have to agree with you that you are for some acts and some laws right. For example, driving without a driver's license. You said you didn't know her, and it doesn't mean that there are no such cases in local self-government, and since you're the minister of justice and state administration, there is administrative oversight in your ministry. I'd like you to check one thing. I'm absolutely sure what I'm saying is true. Most units of local self-government, I'm going to list them specifically because I'm 100% safe, and it's about Negotin and Zaječar. In all decisions, where they have the opportunity to write a criminal sentence, the range is always the same as in the Law of Infractions divided by two. All units of local self-government have a range of penalties for any violations ranging from 2,500 to 75,000 dinars. In their decisions, they often have totally pointless violations of something that can't really be a violation. For example, in Negotina we have a decision to make in that one, you say you have an attitude, so there's one, two, three of what is said, they punish dogs and cats, not the owner, but the dog and the cat. Also, all other penalties are always, so in all decisions, literally half of the penalties for violations, which are foreseen. Now that you're punished, that means a judge for violations, a citizen, for example, he does it again, for example, the sand has in front of the yard, so he's not removed, a man has a wall, so in seven days he does the same thing, then his punishment is 2,500, and he's got 10,000 dinars. For example, you'll agree that for such a citizen it's a lot or, for example, if the tailoring shop stays longer than 20 hours after the decision on working time, the inspector comes in, you get a misapplication, and for such a local self-government entrepreneur the punishment is the same, so half of yours to 250,000. This is also the case in Negotina and Zajecar, for example, for the wrong parking on the public surface.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21683	Anyone else want a word? Parliamentarians Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted the 39th amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21684	We, Minister, obviously don't understand each other. This amendment is the same as the amendment of the LDP parliamentary group. We're not talking about whether the range is large or the range is small, that there are such violations, such violations, that it's not well done in certain laws, etc. We're talking about the people having no money to pay this kind of punishment. We can prescribe whatever we want here, that you say it's prevention, that we vote it out, but there's no one to pay for it. When there's no code to pay, then people go to jail, and that prison costs the state 2,000 dinars a day. So your whole concept is pointless. Put on huge fines, people don't have money to pay, they go to jail, and that still costs you 2,000 dinars a day in prison, and one day you're replacing the prison with 1,000 dinars. That's what we'll talk about when we get to that amendment. What we're talking about here is that 150,000 dinars is a penalty for a physical face and that it cannot be paid, no matter what a violation it is. That two million dinars is a punishment for legal persons, it's a mental noun, it's 20,000 euros. We have 60,000 companies that went bankrupt. Who can pay 20,000 euros? Should he take a loan from the bank to have 20,000 euros to pay a felony sentence? It's not a business offense, we're talking about a misdemeanor. They didn't fill something out, they didn't do something right, they didn't file any charges, etc. We're not talking about the crime, we're not talking about someone keeping the tax quiet. You know what the punishments are for that. So 20,000 euros the company can't pay. We can do it with a smile. Which you didn't put in to be five million. It's even more of a prevention. Make it five million, so everyone knows that if they miss the decimal, they're stuck, not that they're gonna close down the company, they're gonna take all his personal property. Let's match the heights of the real situation. That punishment should have some purpose, and it can't have a purpose if no one has the money to pay for it. That's why we have submitted an amendment for legal persons to be fined up to 500,000 dinars, for up to 50,000 dinars, and for entrepreneurs up to 100,000 dinars. These are some fines that are appropriate. Don't think they're small. It's not easy for a firm to find 5,000 euros, or an entrepreneur of 100,000 dinars, or any physical face of 50,000 dinars, because when that 50,000 dinars, he doesn't have anything to eat that month.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21685	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21686	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS will fully support the minister's position not to accept the amendments we have discussed so far for several reasons. First, we have witnessed several times that we are together, and MPs of the opposition, and MPs of the ruling majority, supported the Justice Ministry's policy to tighten the criminal policy in Serbia, to strengthen the respect of the law in Serbia, to introduce order in Serbia, to introduce legislation, to introduce discipline as exists in Europe and in all countries of the developed world. In this context, it has many times been respected by the opposition as being led, in some cases, by a mild criminal policy. We now have a situation that the Justice Ministry has proposed a law where fines are as similar as they have been before, regardless of what inflation was, regardless of what might be appropriate for someone to fill the budget in this way, but we believe that the minister of justice had the understanding of the working group that worked on making this law for the difficult material situation of our citizens. Demagogy can't be the reason to now attack those penalties because it takes care of its citizens. That's not the real reason, and we can't possibly accept that in the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Public Events, in the first place of the matches, the penalty for the one who throws a torch on the ground of up to 150,000 dinars. Honestly, I don't think that's much. I think it's totally in line with the practice that we're doing today, and that's zero tolerance, as much as possible, on the ground, zero tolerance, and in traffic where the problem is that, let's say, someone who drives without a driver's license gets fined with 100,000 dinars. The simplest and cheapest way is for citizens to simply respect the laws, because that will make us safer, so we will all be happier together, we will live in a more orderly state. In fact, some punishments are, we even have to say, small ones. We have a situation that, say, punishment for deliberately abusing wild animals is a criminal punishment of up to 50,000 dinars. So, we cannot demagogue what we see here today by certain MPs to defend the situation that the law must be respected and that is the only way to build a legal state. Finally, we have another situation that has been introduced by this law, which is that people who don't have to pay will not necessarily go to jail. This is why a special measure is introduced – work in the public interest. Why would someone go to jail, why would someone, at the end of the line, pay a fine, so that his children or people in the house have nothing to eat? It is much better that when winter comes, those who commit a crime take the shovel and clean the snow. I've given, of course, the most banal example possible, but we have a whole series of examples that we're going to have to see in practice when working in the public interest is going to replace both fines and jail time. In one word, we must finally agree to end the demagogy. If we all agreed to go towards a more severe criminal system together, then the criminal system provided for by the Law on Infractions is quite realistic, perfectly normal and perfectly acceptable to our citizens. Finally, the minister of justice cannot be responsible for perhaps some illogical violations that occur in certain units of local self-government. I fully believe that respected previous speakers have made some interesting suggestions, but also interesting examples that should definitely be thrown out of our practice, but of course it is not a place where we can ask the Minister of Justice to help. This must be resolved in local self-governments and, of course, the SNS committees in local self-governments, where there is a need, will surely be informed of the legal aspects of some violations and will make sure that these pointless violations are thrown out of practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21687	Thank you. National MP Judita Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21688	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in this article 39, there is this systemic error, because these enormous penalties can be prescribed by law or regulation. There's a huge range of those penalties. The range ranges from 5,000 to 150,000, from 50,000 to 200,000 dinars and from 10,000 to 500,000 dinars. So it's a huge punishment for the current situation, as far as citizens' existence is concerned, as far as the economy is concerned, and this gives a huge discretionary right to the judge, who decides which amount of punishment will be decided. Therefore, it does not matter what state the state is currently in, it does not care that the regulation still allows these penalties to be prescribed and does not take into account the consequences of such great penalties. It is a true example of demagogy, when you say that if someone doesn't have the money, then in fact they shouldn't commit any violations. It is demagogy, you have no money – you have no offense, and in that case you don't have to pay a fine. In translation, that means when you talk about the need for such a high sentence. I haven't heard a single argument here that went that way, to convince anyone in this room or to convince the public that these high sentences are the right answer to any violations. It's very important that we settle things, what we really want, whether we want repression or we want prevention. If we want prevention, it can be achieved in other ways, but certainly not with such penalties and with such ranges.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21689	Thank you. Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21690	What it means in the translation depends on who translates. That's the first thing. The other thing, here, is to be honest, so let's just say it's one general standard. Imagine now that you have before you a proposal of the Criminal Code, which criticises why a sentence of 15 days to 40 years can be imposed. It's a general norm. There's a norm in which to prescribe what's the penalty maximum. I would like to take advantage of this creativity and this energy all together when the laws prescribe concrete violations, when in the units of local self-government and in the circuit assembly, decisions are also prescribed for concrete violations and then intervened. So it's about the general standard. Look, you can say -- there's a huge penalty range. I say, there is a huge number of protection goods that are protected by these violations. You can't classify them. Everywhere in the world, it's normal to prescribe a general standard of what is a criminal minimum, what is a criminal maximum.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21691	Thank you. Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21692	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It's about that, Mr. Minister, that there's some kind of truth teller. According to that truth, you're somewhere under that positive scale. So there is no crime where a sentence range between 15 days and 40 years is foreseen. Indeed, Mr. Minister, you can appeal to general norms, general norms as far as punishments are concerned, and we really have no objection there, but then be honest when you give an answer – why did you choose this range of penalties? There's a huge penalty of 150,000 dinars for a physical face and there's a huge fine of 22,000 for legal persons. There's no general norm that can amnest you and you can't possibly compare this law to the Criminal Code or the Criminal Procedure Act. This is still about a minor social hazard, when we talk about violations. Mr Minister, it would be good if, when you represent a law or when you talk to MPs, you had in mind that this controversy and this debate and this conversation listen to and citizens, it would be good for the public to really be referred to what is said and how is spoken.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21693	Thank you. Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21694	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good to listen carefully to what we criticise when we criticise. I said that the general norm by which one crime cannot be punished for more than 40 years, not for a particular crime. I am talking about general provisions, as the general provisions are in this draft law on violations. Then, by prescribing certain violations through other laws, those provisions are being worked out. If you say – there are a lot of 150,000 dinars, I said – not for every offense. There are violations where a person should be punished with the most severe punishment, and I have set an example for you. Someone is operating a motor vehicle without a driver’s license for that category of vehicle or vehicle that is not registered. Imagine the danger there is, then, to cause damage or to commit a crime. For example, the Business Society Act prescribes a fine of 50,000 to 150,000 dinars for a crime committed by a criminal. When you read that part of the beginning of that article 587 you can say – yes, that's really a lot. But let's see what offense it is. It is said – if this person offers either a cash compensation or another benefit to a public shareholder in order to obtain the power to vote at the Assembly of that society - corruption - or for someone to vote in the Assembly of a public shareholder's voice or not in a certain way – corruption again. Should he be severely punished? 13/1MO/LjL12. 10-12.20 We have cases of privatisation, criminal privatisation of some companies that have just been committed through abuses of voting rights in the parliaments of stock companies. Of course, the law must threaten to be severely punished if such a thing is resorted to. So, am I in favour of leading a life sentence policy that will respect the difficult living conditions and economic opportunities that exist in Serbia? Yes, I am, but if you're making a general standard, and this law makes a general standard for all violations, it can't be a penalty of more than 150 thousand dinars. Once again I say - I call on you, both the MPs of the ruling parties and the MPs of the opposition, that just as a result of this good debate and session at the time when other laws are prescribed, you react in this way, where it is perfectly reasonable and where there is a basis for it. But this just isn't the law where it's supposed to be intervened in this way. There are some illogicalities in other laws and should be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21695	Thank you. The word is Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21696	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I agree with you that the violations must be punished and we really have no dilemma about this. We disagree on that range between the smallest and the highest amount, even in that general standard. It's just that we have to make a difference between a crime and a crime. So that's two completely different things. We can't replace the thesis. It's a different level of social danger between a crime and a felony. That's why we have the Code of Infraction. That's why we have the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code. So that's the difference, Mr. Minister. The fight against corruption fails if you put your focus only on repression, if you place the focus exclusively on marketing and if one single man promotes your fight against corruption by publicly announcing arrests, under allegations, publicly announces how this same repression you were talking about today will be applied to those target groups and individuals who will be targeted. So it's about us talking today about the Law of Infractions and then staying within the scope of this subject, infringing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21697	Thank you. The following has been registered by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21698	I answered between the other lines and the replica, but it was a long time ago. Such large penalties lead to the following data: in Belgrade, 12,324 people asked to replace the fine for the 2011 prison sentence. Then, in 2012, that number increased to 14.309. With such great punishments you have in 2012 14,000 people who prefer to go to jail because they have no money to pay the fine. You put as much punishment as you can, you'll have 50,000 people asking to replace the sentence with a prison, I just don't know which prison you're going to put them in? In addition to this whole controversy and our arguments, there goes your explanation that you wrote. You wrote in the light of this law that there is a huge increase in the exchange of fines for prison sentences. No one goes to jail for what they love, but because they don't have the money to pay. That is why the penalties must be appropriate to the economic situation in which we are. Is the economic situation much worse? Yes, it's much worse and in the last year, it's getting worse, but it's certainly not the opposition's responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21699	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21700	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, let's get rid of the pulsism first. The Socialist Party of Serbia and the SPS parliamentary group, when it comes to this amendment and the text of the law, will not slave to populistism. The diapazon of punishment is a general norm and it's a good thing that the threatened punishment is this high. It's good because there's this so-called. a two-dimensional consequence of punishment. One is prevention, and the other is repression. We can't have any dilemma here. If we lower the level of punishment, what did we prevent? Is that how we stimulate the perpetrators, any offenses, any crimes, and in particular the crime? Anyway, we're stimulating. Therefore, a certain amount of fine, at the view of the SPS parliamentary group and my personal position, is justified, and may even be higher. One that is the lowest, of 5,000 dinars, is intended for those violations and illegal actions that have the least degree of social danger, which are the least likely to harm the protection goods and where they are protected from such a nature that this punishment can achieve the purpose of punishment. So, what message do we need to send from here to the citizens? To commit crimes by being punished by someone who is extremely small? Is this a political message for this House and for us Members of Parliament that we must take care of the interests of citizens? I'm sure he didn't. Besides, we cannot afford to tie our hands to courts and judges. Why? Because the courts and judges for each specific case also have the intended punishment and the intended qualification of the offence, regardless of where the offence is systematised, in which the law or even the sublegal act, and ultimately the decision of the local self-government assembly. Then we leave discretionary justice and the judge to decide. That's why, in no way, I can't agree to the fact that the hands of the judge are actually tied in this direction in order to impose the principle of obligation. Then the judge wouldn't be a judge, then it'd be just some transmitter decision, and we'd take over the facts of the court's jurisdiction. That's absolutely inadmissible. In addition, from previous discussions, it also implements some kind of imposing the principle of obligation on judges. I can't agree with that. A little while ago, there was a story that instead of "the punishment can be freed", it says, "the punishment will be freed." So, what do we do for each individual case? What are we gonna do about every situation? All situations are not the same. The perpetrators of crimes are not the same. It must be looked at individually, and it is quite good that the Ministry of Justice and you, Minister, did not accept something that would bind the judges' hands, on the one hand, and on the other hand, would take a huge amount of responsibility for ourselves for making such a provision, especially by material and legal regulation. In the end, let me just say that the SPS parliamentary group stands at the point of view that, as far as Article 39 is concerned, Article 39 is well prescribed, it is a general norm and, from the point of view of the threatened punishment, which should be prevented, it affects potential criminals, that, given such a high penalty should not commit criminal acts, that a measure of prevention is sufficient, and as a general norm should survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21701	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21702	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am under the impression that certain lawyers do not live in this time and that they are bypassing what should not be bypassed. So no one has asked why this offender is breaking the law and who is he forcing to break the law without such measures as were proposed not to apply? Repressive measures must be made. Regardless of the country's economic situation, if we reduce those penalties, as they propose each of these amendments, we would not get any effect on those measures. The one who breaks something, he knows he has to pay that much and shouldn't do it. These are these repressive measures, which do not allow the offender to commit such violations in advance. There I would disagree with the gentleman who is proposing some minor penalties and that judges are given discretionary rights to determine from 5,000 to 150,000 or from 20,000 to 150,000 dinars, depending on the criminal measure. The Serbian Progressive Party will accept the bill, to accept these repressive measures, so we will vote in favour of the bill in Dan.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21703	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21704	As regards amendments to Article 39, they may in part agree to demand a reduction in the prescribed fines, both for natural persons or persons responsible, i.e. legal persons and entrepreneurs, so that there is no money to justify it. There's no money, there wasn't any last year or last year, which is why we should ask one financial expert, who in every government was the finance minister. But when one of the MPs says there is no money, no offense, then it is evident that the Law on Infractions has not been read. There is, you know, something called the Institute of Public Interest, a lot of MP groups have supported it here. There's something also called tightening criminal policy. Many of the opposition parliamentary groups here were also advocates of this increase in criminal policy. If we stick strictly to the Proposition of Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Infractions, then it is unacceptable to say - there is no money, no offense, because you have something in this law called the replacement of unpaid fines. This unpaid fine, you know, can be replaced by some other institutes and it's not just a prison sentence, there's an institute called public-interest work. I find it very pleasant during whose government has just been instituted in the public interest, which, unfortunately, has been applied so few times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21705	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we've heard a lot of arguments about and against. As the promoter of this amendment, I think that, in general and better terms, punishment would be reduced, but I don't think there's any need to make any further arguments, we've heard a lot about this, about the difficult economic situation, changing circumstances today compared to some period from 2008 to 2009, when it definitely lived better. But it's not my theme. I want something pragmatic to speak from the perspective of the judiciary. Part of the funds charged by the court fees and remains to the judiciary, part is paid into the budget. What's the point, that and court fees, which is not the subject today, of course, and the level of criminal penalties must be realistic, for the simple reason that they're charged. We can prescribe great punishments, as we've done before, but then we thought it could be done in real life. If I'm not mistaken, and you're gonna make me right, I think it's a very small collection of fines, all about 40%, for the simple reason that people can't pay those fines. I think if we cut the maximum of the fines themselves, that both the state and the budget and the citizens from this would profit. Of course, citizens would pay less fines, but they would pay them. I think that's the idea of a misdemeanor warrant that we've introduced in this law, that if someone has to pay the fine, that if they pay it sooner or in time, they'll pay at some small amount. I think that same analogy you've introduced here can be applied to the level of punishment. If citizens can afford punishment, they'll pay for it. If we reduce the fines, as we propose by amendment, and the execution of these penalties is greater, there will be more money in the budget, there will be more for the work of the state, for the work of the judicial authorities. I think you should look wider at the question, that it's not just a matter of punishment, but whether those penalties are enforceable or not. We'll come to the next amendment to the essential question, what happens if they can't execute the sentence? Yes, there's work in the public interest, it's one of the segments, but there's also that -- exchange of fines with prison. It's just a real extra cost to the state, a very unpopular measure, and of course, we all know that short-term prison sentences, especially for younger people, can only be harmful and not useful. Please consider, when voting for this amendment, precisely on this segment, that the reduction of penalties will certainly result in an increase in the total payment of fines, which would result in a multiple effect, which is the idea of high penalties, and the citizens could bear it and could pay all the obligations they have towards the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21707	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 39th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Deyan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21708	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I can find an understanding of your position that the uppermost is something that is justified in this situation. Let's start with that fact, but I can't find an understanding that there's no willingness to change the bottom line. If we have information today that the minimum wage in Serbia is lower than in China and that in China is a minimum profit of 200 euros, and in Serbia 188 euros, and if what we have been convinced here over the years that it represents a cheap workforce - China and that everyone is running there because it is a cheap workforce and because it is the minimum profit, it turns out that the seven minimum earnings in Serbia are less than in China. If we start with the average earnings of the last year being almost the same, the difference is in a few hundred dinars in Serbia, where pensions are actually less than they were, we see that Serbian citizens are in one difficult position when we talk about paying the fine. Let me give you an example. A 13-year-old and 10-month-old boy goes to his buddy's to play with and he takes to run his brother's older brother's bike. He drives that engine without a license and gets stopped by the police, legitimateizes him, doesn't have a license, writes him a criminal report. Since he's under 14 years old, according to your law, your parents are responding. As you yourself have mentioned, the fine is between 100,000 and 120,000 dinars for the offense. Are parents in a state of minimum criminal punishment of 100,000, at this point, caused by their underage son or daughter under 14 years, 13 and a half years old, by taking from friends and operating some engine to 50 cubic metres, it's a bike with a bike of up to 50 cc's, and thus being legitimate without permission, parents respond in that situation for the offence? The minimum penalty, as you mentioned, is 100,000 dinars. These are two and a half average salaries in Serbia. Next year will be even less, because there will be a limited growth in wages, pensions and other incomes, and of course, through inflation and everything else will jump, all other prices. We are in a situation where we have one maximum which, we can say, is justified, because there are those who will be able to pay it and we are in a situation that the average citizen of Serbia will not be able to pay the minimum. If we start from the fact that we accept your position that the maximum is fine and you have shown it, the judiciary, that there is someone who is able to pay 12m euros in bail to defend himself from freedom, it is for someone else and the court will grant him a bail of 200,000 euros. It is necessary to start from bringing down the lower limit for penalties and not being the lower limit of 100,000 dinars, that the lower limit be 50,000 dinars, so that the punishment is not directed towards jeopardising the existence of our citizens. Because if we have a traffic law fine of 100,000 to 120,000 dinars, you have a general range of 5,000 to 150,000 dinars here, but you should be aware of the penalties imposed in other laws, criminal penalties. We are coming into a situation that we will endanger the existence of families in Serbia, by not being able to pay the fines. We can make a deal, keep the upper limit, but leave it to the courts that, in accordance with the property status of the defendants, they make decisions on the height of the sentence. It should be reduced, if you do not already accept that a reduction in the ceiling should be discussed, the lower limit should be reduced and the instructions given, you are the minister, and you agree all other laws, see, which threaten the economic situation and the existence of Serbian citizens. In a situation where Serbian citizens are further impoverished, without the hope that their economic situation will improve in the coming years, it should be kept in mind that penalties are remunerated and that those penalties can be paid. A fine of 5,000 dinars may be nothing to someone, but for someone who receives 20,000 dinars, it's a serious punishment for them. It's a minimum sentence in a traffic violation and, in general, a minimum sentence under this law. It's illegal parking, the use of a mobile phone, those are penalties that don't take back those points, which are referred to in the Traffic Violation Act. It's not much for someone. For someone, it's a huge sum. It's a pair of shoes and a backpack for September 1st for school. In this context, it is necessary to see how the penalties will be brought into line with the property situation, that criminal punishment be for poor people and stimulation for those who have money to deafen themselves completely to violations, because it will always be the people who pay, but the penalties should be determined in accordance with the property situation. Therefore, simply think in the future about adapting the lower limit to the property situation and not jeopardising the existence of a family in Serbia and making penalties payable to reduce the lower limit and thus creating a fair system of punishment. In this way as it stands here in the law, I think we will come into a situation that the penalties will not be charged or will be to the extent to which they are now, which is totally unacceptable and only speaks of the ineffectiveness of our legal system and the ineffectiveness of the penal system in Serbia that shows all its infirmity under adequate circumstances. I think that's the topic we need to talk about here, since we're already having a wide discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21709	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21710	Dear Mr. Minister, you have seen that all opposition parliamentary groups have submitted amendments, of course with different ranges, but have asked for the level of fines to be reduced. We believe that fines are as prescribed, regardless of what is prescribed solution, i.e. the envisaged solution in the now applicable Law on Infringements, we believe that they are unrealistically high, that they are not fit for the economic situation today in Serbia. We heard in the principle debate that one of the reasons why this law is passed is to increase the payment of 100% fines. Today, the success of the payment of fines is no more than 20%, and I assure you that with this range of fines, this level of payment of fines will be even lower, because citizens will not be able to pay them, and that trend we already have today. I'm sorry for the depression again, but I'm very impressed by this debate on the story of increasing VAT from 18% to 20%, when we passed that law, we got the assurance that by increasing the VAT rate, we would fill the budget, that there would be an increase in revenues in the budget, not that there was an increase in revenues in the budget, but that they had been reduced and that a large number of businesses had now moved to a level or a grey economy area. So when we prescribe and predict solutions like this, then we need to start from the real life opportunities that are now in the state. Today, the general trend is to replace fines by mass incarceration. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate. It seems to me from the beginning of the year to the end of May, so it's only five months, 5,059 fines have been replaced by prison sentences, and according to Belgrade's deputy president, only 1,756 fines have been charged. So if we add all of this to the fact that the people who spent the last few years in prison who endured the prison sentence or the fines have turned into prison sentences, they've spent the last 13,000 days in prison. Let's just imagine what the cost is for the state, especially with regard to those rules you haven't changed, where one day prison costs only 1,000 dinars. I think it is much more justified and this is not a demagogue debate, as some MPs say, I think it is very important that we start from a realistic understanding of economic opportunities, the paying power of citizens in Serbia, and that, based on these parameters, we determine the penalties provided for in this bill. I really think it's much more important than the state insisting on such solutions losing additionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21711	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21712	Thank you, esteemed chairman. I will come from an uncontested fact, and that fact certainly cannot be questioned, at least here in parliament. Penalties are not a social category and criminal penalties can in no case be a parameter in relation to the economic and financial situation, standards and social opportunities, because if the social category were not prescribed by this law, but by some other law, and we cannot slave to social categories, especially not to perpetrators against legal action. If that's where it's going, then we're stimulating something we can't stimulate. What are we supposed to do, what kind of criminal policy are we supposed to be? Whether criminal policy should go that way – let us charge you what we can, so we leave you the chance to continue to commit crimes, so if you commit a crime or a crime again, we'll charge you a little bit again, and you'll be stimulated to continue against legal activity because of what we paid you. It's an absolutely unacceptable way to literally try to change Article 39. I just have to remind myself, purely from the legal point of view, this kind of diapazon punishment, from minimum to maximum, is only possible for courts and judges to apply some of the penalties that are laid down here as a general norm and that is the discretionary law of the court and the discretion of the judges. With the utmost respect of fellow Michaels, I cannot in any case lead a kind of trivial story into something that can be an excuse to reduce the sentence. The responsibility of parents as persons who have missed the custody of a child must be punished. The child in that situation must be subjected to certain methods of educational action, not to be opposed to the legal activity he has taken, so if the vehicle is improper, the parent had to take care of how the situation could have ever occurred without permission or in any other way. So those who answer, they're perfectly right, and there's absolutely no dilemma. I just can't believe that we're just trying to undermine our criminal policy, to defuse the sentence of prison, and to raise a fine above the sentence, which, in any case, by the hierarchy of punishment, must be below and thus stimulate potential perpetrators of the offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21713	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21714	I understand the need for certain MPs to like the minister, but it has nothing to do with the law. The right is something else and legal category and the very theory of law speaks differently of punishments. It is not a repression purpose of punishment and law also has a social category and must monitor social events. The right in a certain way must go ahead of social events, to create certain social relations, to prevent some behaviors, too, to sanction those who violate certain violations of the legal order. Infractions are minor violations of the legal order; they are more serious crimes. We're talking about violations here, and the purpose of the offense isn't to send one family into bankruptcy. If it is, according to you, who are the protectors of the socio-economic status of pensioners, the purpose of the offence is to repressively hit on the back of Serbian citizens, it's okay and that's your right, ours is not. We believe that the lower limit of punishment should be such that the court determines the property of each family, that the penalty is such that it has its sanctioning function, but that it does not send a particular family to bankruptcy because a family that lives on two average earnings is a fine of 100,000 dinars for managing motor vehicles, if their son of 13-and-a-half years on a trip takes a motorcycle and manages a bike with a motorcycle and the police catch it, he is given a fine of 100,000 dinars. It's for a family, for parents who, according to objective responsibility, are responsible for the violation their son committed, it's a huge cost, 100,000 dinars, if we take the average family in Serbia to live on two average salaries. Simply, it should be borne in mind how Serbia is living today. We have given a constructive, not demagogue, but constructive proposal on how to achieve the purpose of punishing in this situation, and how families do not go bankrupt in these too repressive penalties. That, in other words, should be a goal for everyone. We are here to ensure everyone's right and to protect everyone's right to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21715	Thank you, Mr. Michael. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21716	Mr. Minister, I'd like to point out exactly a few questions that have been raised here, which are connected to each other. Today's debate is very interesting and all the issues that MPs discussed today and which have been the subject of longer discussions are shown to be justifiable. What's the problem with being so defined, as you said, with the general norm? You're right. We think that the way we defined the level of threatened penalties is exactly the way to do it. He's more than we've done to other colleagues. But where does the problem appear? You said, it's a general norm and that's true. However, when we think about how punishments are prescribed, we must bear in mind the difference between criminal law and criminal law, which is the number of entities involved and there is a problem. Then we go back to article four, regulation, and then we see that it's not just the legislator. We could understand that the legislator correctly saw the value of the protection goods that protects the prescribed punishment, but now it includes government, and municipalities, and cities and the circuit assembly. In the difficult economic situation of their budgets, by policy, which the government leads to certain local self-governments, the problem is general, from denying funding obligations to local self-governments to giving other powers, although they can prescribe fewer amounts than the most threatened amount, this situation, such as certain levels of up to 150,000 for legal persons or entrepreneurs up to 500,000 dinars, to use, so much costing individual safeguards to prescribe their protection by defining the maximum penalty to fill the budget. We're talking very openly. There we can have different practices, from cities to cities. In one city, a violation of the misrepresentation of the company, a scoreboard, can be prescribed that two million for a legal person, a million specifically in this case, or 250,000 for entrepreneurs. So you have to make sure that, in addition to the fact that there is an uncomparably high amount of punishment, the number of entities that will prescribe it in their decisions is large and cannot be controlled by the government itself. That is why the debate on Article 4 was good and perhaps should be considered, as counterpart Aligrudic suggested, that the Justice Committee be ambushed. We think that in this difficult economic situation, which has been discussed by colleagues, any preventive purpose of fines has just been determined by the amendment that we have submitted. It is precisely in a situation where citizens can't afford it all, when legal persons can't, when businesses and entrepreneurs are increasingly difficult to do business, exactly the purpose of punishing them is achieved. I think that's where you had to keep an eye on the amount of prevention that would be defined and protected. We think it's our amendment. Notice, the number of entities that prescribes the danger that the value of the protected goods will be incomparably higher than you have defined. If he were just a legislator, that would be fine, but local self-government, cities, autonomous province, a large number and all have one intention and goal -- how to fill the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21717	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21718	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I know this will sound unusual, but we will not vote for this amendment, as convincing as possible, and as convincing as possible, and as convincing as possible, and Ms. Radovic is great and in principle discussion and now she points out how convincing these examples are, how many people today do not pay the fine and are defined for the prison and what to do about it. Our reason is principled nature, and it rests precisely on the case it was given. In principle, Mr Jovanovic has defined him and we think that criminal policy does not lead to social policy. We want to believe what, hopefully, we all want to believe, which is that this height of fines and the state of society in which we are, simply, are not spatially identical. Let us hope and do all we can to make the financial power of the citizens bigger in the next period, because otherwise it is very complicated to solve problems from another area with one mechanism. We heard an example of what we talked about a few months ago here, whether raising, as a measure, VAT from 18% to 20%, whether it would allow for a bigger budget charge and we got, probably in the heat of the polemics, an incorrect answer that didn't make it possible. Yes, it is. The budget is filled more than not in accordance with the plan of the measure presented to us. Why? Because there's one bigger problem, and that's the problem of billing, and that problem is not solved by height, as we know, but rather by better, more adequate tax policy. In short, on this case we see that one measure cannot solve a few problems. She can hope to solve one problem, but she has to perform her primary function. This time, the basic function was to increase, due to the situation in which the economy is located, the percentage of VAT and thus to provide higher income. Is that enough? It's not. In this particular case, would it be better at this point to be the lower level of punishment? I agree with you, at this point it sounds more than logical. Is that really the problem of whether citizens are able to pay some fines? I'm sure they don't get rid of each other, and I don't think that's why the law needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21719	Thank you. National MP Milica Radovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21720	I don't know if we were present to consider the same budget rebalance? In the budget rebalancing, it was quite clear and we have this as a fact that VAT collection revenues are drastically reduced compared to planned ones. So, if that's true, and Mr. Markovic says it's true, then we can see that the measure did not give a solution. Our arguments have just contributed to the fact that the amount of fines, as envisaged, will not give a solution and we will not achieve the objective of the law provided here, which is to increase the efficiency of the payment of fines. It's not true that height has nothing to do with the billing plan. How? If you predict huge fines, who's going to pay for it? I was just saying that there's a huge number of citizens who are replacing fines with jail time. It's not a demagogy to say that it's a lot easier for them to repay the state. He's gonna spend time in prison, he's gonna have three regular meals, he's gonna get everything, no one's gonna pull them up because they haven't paid the sentence to the state, because he's gonna pay off his fine. They're not demagogue debates. We're talking about real conditions and opportunities where citizens live. It is not realistic that these penalties, despite being prescribed by the previous law, today find their place in this bill, because they are unrealistic. The state will not profit from them and will not get what the target is, and most of them have said so. We will not achieve efficiency and greater efficiency in the collection of fines.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21721	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21722	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened very carefully to this debate. She was interesting, but I'm going to ask you to stop publishing a very cheap demagogy. It bothers me to divide into a government, divided into a minister, who, as Attila Bic of God, has some terrible, disgusting punishments terrorizing citizens in Serbia, who have nothing to live on, who have nothing to feed their families on, who have nothing to send children to school in the fall and, on the other hand, these wonderful, great MPs who care about Serbian citizens who have nowhere to work. Then let's see why your citizens came into a situation so they don't have kids to send to school. Let's see what for, and at what time those citizens were out of work in these great privatisations, and none were happy, which was in the Republic of Serbia. Let us not forget our personal and party responsibility when we have participated in some governments, some governments and led. We cannot look at the citizens of Serbia and all the problems, and every law that enters this procedure, just one eye. We can't afford to make some small points, daily points, how there's someone out there taking care of the citizens, and the minister and the government only care about budgeting, some huge penalties. That concern was meant to be at the time when some governments were being led, and when there was the responsibility of the parties for the management of these governments and for these privatisations, and for those enormous borrowings, and for those workless remains, and not now we have later remembered and worried and we have to defend the citizens from such a terrible and disgusting government of Serbia, which so punishes the citizens. And here, it's not punishment for citizens, no one punishes citizens for walking down the street, or obeying the rules, or obeying the law, this is where people who have broken the law, offenders, not citizens, offenders are punished. We have to make a difference in all this. We're not talking about coincidences, about a 13-year-old kid who's been on a motorcycle and made you no big deal. This is where we talk about people who intend to commit crimes, what about them? What about the people, if I've heard any arguments here that these penalties should be based on the material wealth of the family. And does anyone work, and how average does he receive? What about the family of a breaker who doesn't work, who doesn't receive? No receipts, no fines. Is such a system sustainable? What kind of message are we sending to some people who are going to make sense of it tomorrow or not to commit a crime? Therefore, I ask you to bring this debate into some normal flows, not to catch up with some cheap daily demagogy and to look at the essence, the right and the personal responsibility that makes Serbian citizens in the position they are in right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21723	Thank you. Milos Aligrudic. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21724	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. So let's not talk about cheap demagogy and attack all the parliamentary groups and speakers who speak according to amendments, trying to give logical and rational explanations, when it comes to criminal policy, about the general standards of criminal policy under this law. So, this is a very serious discussion, which has its sociological side, after all, which also has a social dimension, if some claim that there is no, which is not a demagogue, because it advocates impunity, but quite the opposite, which says that penalties must be charged, that sanctions must be imposed, according to those who violate the regulation of this state and these National Assemblys and our congregations, the assembly of cities, but that politics must be criminal, rational, realistic, and that it must be enforceable. So I don't see what demagogy is. If someone is accusing a whole group of MPs of cheap demagogy, because they're taking part in a debate on the policy of prescribing criminal sanctions, then we're not at the cultural level. So, please, the chairman, let those who use these expressions be warned, because that is not the way to talk to fellow Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21725	Thank you. Dean Michael, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21726	Article 27. I had the right to a replica, an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the conduct of the session. Mr. Babic was directly deluded about the case I've given here, about a minor citizen who was driving a motorcycle and I think I have the right to a replica, because I'm afraid he didn't understand what I was going to say until the end. I just want to explain to him why it's important to draw attention to certain cases that life knows, and I want to ask Mr Babic if he meant us when he talked about being worse, because if you take the parameters from 2004 to 2008, how you lived, how you lived from 1990 to 2000, and how you live from 2008 to now. We are prepared to place all the most transparent parameters of Serbian citizens' lives like this, to create a table and to see who was when they supported which power, who was in the power of participation and who was where they were then. I simply want the right to reply because I believe that Mr. Babic has directly taken over the topics of my previous debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21727	You've already replicated Mr. Babic's exposure, or do you want to replicate now, two more minutes? Mr. Babic, you wanted to now that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you can't get the right to a replica. Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21728	I find it interesting that when some MPs say here, some of the opposition MPs need to court ministers, it is usually those who beg the ministers to adopt their amendments, or who condition themselves and say, if you accept the amendment, we will support your law. It's usually the ones who court the ministers. So much for that. As far as this amendment itself is concerned, it had to be read carefully to the end, this whole bill of law proposal, and then clearly it could be seen that this draft law has, beware of the law already in force. Now, the practice so far has shown, more than clearly and more clearly, seems to me than transparent, that the collection, exactly, of fines, and it is, of course, infringement proceedings, is done only when under the threat of execution, prison sentences, and after the procedure of replacing unpaid fines, prison sentences, and, of course, the consequences usually had in practice, nothing more than a simple limitation of the execution of the sentence. This is not about whether the fines are small or large and that we are now talking about the economic situation, so here's an initiative to replace the finance minister, so let's make it known about the economic situation in the last ten years, but prevention can only only be done by prescribing dragon penalties. Here, on this occasion, I'm going to reach out to the minister and say about some subsequent changes and additions, I'm going to ask you to sharpen all these fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21729	Thank you. National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21730	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, I finally got my word, I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure, and that's Article 27, 32 and 107. You have indeed violated the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, when you have allowed the discussions of the opposition MPs to be denied, and we believe that you should act in good time, when in this way one of the MPs from the ruling coalition addresses this parliament. It's not a demagogy when we talk about the punishments you have to put in line with the present. It is not a demagogy when we call for the fact that the minimum wage in Serbia is 200 euros and that there are 188 euros in China. It's not a demagogy when we say we have less wages than we pay in Malaysia, in the Philippines. That is the problem of today's Serbia. So if you decide to write some laws, then you really need those laws to come up with. That is all there is to it, when opposition MPs respond to certain strange solutions made in the legislative proposals, which are least said strange.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21731	Thank you. MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21732	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is indeed time for us to slowly conclude this debate about the heights of punishment, because this, with all due respect and at the risk of being maybe even a reminder, is demagogy. The aim of prescribing punishment in a misdemeanor is to prevent people from committing crimes. The goal is that people would not be among other things, of course, the goal is to tell people don't drive without a driver's license, don't drive a car if it's not registered, don't torture wild animals, otherwise you might be punished with up to 50,000 dinars of fines. I find it truly fascinating, several months ago in this same assembly we had a debate where many of the opposition criticised that the criminal policy in Serbia is small, and today it is respected here that the main reason for prescribing criminal penalties is to fill the budget. No, the main reason is just the opposite, prevention in different ways. What is also interesting is that certain parliamentary groups that discussed today only a few months ago or several years ago boasted that certain amendments or draft laws increased criminal policy and strengthened criminal policy. It's popular to be a demagogue today, so let's say the punishments are too high. I will not speak the names of the parties on purpose, but you can find on the Internet that on 24 December 2009, one opposition party that criticises Minister Selakovic today for the level of punishment has proposed a more severe punishment for football incidents, and today, the same party is much obliged to see those who, for example, cause major riots at the games, but not at the level of the crime, be punished with up to 150,000 dinars. The proposal of 150,000 maximum fines was the same opposition party's proposal in 2009. Today demagogue is nicer to speak, and not these are punishments for what reasons. We have a situation that again is one of the opposition parties who demagoguely claims that these penalties are too high, seeking an increase in criminal penalties for people who verbally or in a similar way attack BusPlus controllers, which I support. It's a violation in most cases, if you verbally attack a BusPlus controller or a parking service controller. Today, for demagogue reasons, because today is nice when Minister Selakovic is around, we attack that the penalties are too high. The fines provided by Minister Selakovic are identical to those of the previous law, identical to those proposed by the Justice Ministry working group and the previous and present and identical penalties that some opposition MPs proposed here a year, two, three. But today, demagogue is nicer to talk about that punishments are high and then people shouldn't be punished, because wages are small. I absolutely believe that one who drives without a driver's license, that one who tortures wild animals, who pollutes the environment in some small amount, should be punished and that's where we'll all agree. I don't know what kind of message some opposition MPs send to the citizens for demagogue reasons, do we perhaps need to put an end to punishment? That's certainly not the way. I think we all agreed together that criminal policy in Serbia should be as strict as possible. On the other hand, I repeat, in the Law on Violations, the same applies to Criminal Law, one of the elements for determining the level of punishment is the economic situation of a citizen being punished. On the other hand, anyone who doesn't have the money to pay a felony sentence can take a job in the public interest. Finally, who is aware that he has committed a violation can pay the payment order within eight days and will only pay half the fine. Let's stop with the demagogy and finally continue with some really quality amendments that are both accepted and submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21733	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I felt the need to propose one of these amendments to reduce the sentence, just to clear some things up. We can have a political debate here about who's to blame for the difficult economic situation. It is easy for us, we will say – the SPS of the 1990s, you will say, gentlemen of the current coalition – you are guilty, i.e. DSS or DS during each period of power. I can say again – today it is your fault, but that does not change one fact, that the law is passed today in 2013. Neither 2009 nor 2007, nor 2001, nor 1991. The law should respect reality. I'm going back to what I said before. I'm not talking about the level of punishment. It can be bigger or smaller. The point is whether the punishment is done or not. If the sentence is not enforceable, no one can benefit. The citizen won't take it as a sanction, he hasn't paid the fine, the state won't get any income from punishment, and the fine will remain a dead letter on paper. I urge you to consider what is today, in 2013, no matter who is responsible for the situation we are in, realistically executed, what is good for the citizens, what is good for the state. So I suggest we not really talk about what used to be, but watch today. I agree that this may sound like a demagogue, that we're pushing for less punishment, but I'm not talking about it. I'm talking about what's real today. I think we should all stick to that. In that sense, I urge you once again to consider supporting one of these amendments proposed by the opposition in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21735	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21736	Thank you. I'll talk about this amendment a few times. The bottom line is that you, with this bill of law, have made an easy promise that you will reduce the number of violations if the bill is adopted in this repressive form. That's the point, and we keep pointing it out. It's about one repression, when you're thus raising those fines. We must again point out that and appeal to the fact that it is not enough just to prescribe penalties. Those penalties should also be carried out. How will we enforce these penalties if we live in such an economic situation as we live in? It's not just about making laws. It's about them having a funeral. This is where it was mentioned - what happens, say, if someone drives without a driver's license? What does that mean? If a young-timed person is driving a car without a driver's license, how are you going to fine him? He won't be able to pay that fine. That's one example. Let's go back to those claims that these are demagogy. It's not about demagogy. It is that eyes should be wide open, that reality should be seen, not in a few years, which month to say – we lied. She's been brought here and she's talking about it. I remind you that the prime minister of this country said that it was lied, that politicians lied, that senior officials lied about Kosovo when the LDP policy was taken over regarding the relationship with the settlement of the KIM issue. Here's a little example for you. Today you say, "We will reduce the number of violations." Adopt, suggest, discuss in this sense that it is necessary to raise penalties at that level. Also, you claim that the former law has dealt with these penalties. We're not talking about the previous law. Today we're talking about this draft law on violations. I agree we shouldn't live in the past, but you've been in power for a year. What have you done in that year to make something so drastic that we believe that this will not be easily promised? That unbearable ease of policymaking in terms of the Spanish series from day to day, from month to month, we will reconstruct the government, we will change the government's policy, all for the better, and nothing is happening, and the economy is collapsing from day to day, from month to month. You've raised public debt, you've raised absolutely all the negative parameters in this country, and you can't call on the previous government anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21737	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21738	I am pleased to follow the debate, and I am very interested in the arguments of the promoters and opposition in the affirmation of amendments that opened the subject of the penalty regulation policy, but I would like to report primarily that I would respond to certain issues that deter parliamentary discussion from the central topic, whenever it comes to dragon punishment as the only effective preventive action of punishment, whenever it comes to the educational effect of punishment and its quantity which is primarily shaped and formulate. I think we need to remind ourselves that punishment ethics doesn't rest on the idea of prevention or the idea of retraining. The legalization of punishment stems from the fact that a crime has been committed and that a natural tendency towards good has been violated. The right to punishment, which is carried out as an evil, which is deliberately applied to someone, who committed a crime, because and just because he committed a crime, it makes all these other kinds of motives secondary and secondary. That is why the quantities found in the basic bill are good because they are not measured from the point of view of the concept of prevention, or the idea of retraining, but rather the basic idea of searching for the total amount of good, and consequently the largest possible amount of happiness, the largest possible number in the social community. It's actually a basic idea. By the way, say a little something and I know about psychology. It is absolutely certain that dragon punishment is not only not ethically justified, nor pedagogical can it be justified. This is confirmed by all relevant research on the subject, because knowingly committed crime never seems to assume that it will be exposed, or that the vindictor will be caught. This is where the threatened punishment has no decisive significance for the prevention of crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21739	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to return to the subject of these amendments and to the subject of the very beginning of the debate on them. The question arises – is this the law that makes repressive provisions? Yes, this is a law that makes repressive provisions. The people's saying – better to prevent than to heal. If in time the state responds in some cases when the law and other regulations are violated, then such action will prevent much greater damage and damage to much more significant goods. If you punish someone who drives without proper driver's license, you stop them from driving again without that driver's license killing someone, causing serious physical damage. If you criminally punish someone for making a wild dump, you stop one day because you didn't punish him, there are various infectious diseases in that area. If you punish someone for failing to comply with the law to report a change of residence, you have thus prevented them from playing the law in another case where they may be called to criminal responsibility. I have to intervene and say it's really bad to represent violations as some kind of luxury. You know, because someone doesn't have a breach available which is a weaker economic, material, property situation, well, that's why you need to reduce the fine, or show the penalties prescribed as a means, one of the main funds of budgeting, or something that's meant to fill the budget. That's not the point of the offense, that's one of the consequences of the offense. Why? Because there has been a good injury, because there have been violations of some legal standards that must be respected. Therefore, when a person sees a great punishment, they will consider before that whether he will commit a crime or not, and they will not think – it is not such a great punishment, so if he punishes me, I will be able to pay it or I will not be able to. So it's simply the nature of the offense. I repeat again, if you punish someone for driving without proper permission, so for the category of someone, someone who has a seat for a passenger car, takes and drives a bugger and can do material damage, and can hurt someone as well. Of course you will, in such a way, prevent it, so when it sits behind the wheel of that vehicle, it will well consider the consequences, both personally and in its surroundings. I'm gonna do what I said in the beginning one more time. The possibility of endangerment, if you want security, health and material property security, is extremely broad and large. This law requires you to predict a range of penalties for everyone, literally for everyone. There's something else I need to add. The functioning of the judiciary and the functioning of the state of citizens mostly and prices on the basis of the efficiency of the work of the judiciary, especially the criminal judiciary. If the provisions of these laws were to apply much more effectively in some cases where there is a limit between a crime and a crime, legal theorists and practitioners say, it is better to go to a crime because the punishment will be more effective and more visible to everyone in that community than to delay criminal proceedings and the effects of that being seen after a year, a year or two years. Look at countries where the criminal judiciary works effectively, they apply to some of the countries with the most effective judiciary and in general state. So the criminal court needs to be stepped up. If we're going to represent a felony sentence as a luxury that has to be made available to everyone, we won't get far. That's not the point of punishment. The aim of punishment is to respect the law. Are there any cases that we can discuss whether it's good to punish in that particular case one way or another – you know, by introducing, fortunately, I say to our happiness as a society, a criminal judiciary, you do, and we talked about it the other day, you have first degree criminal courts, you have a higher criminal court. The High Court of Violation is competent to resolve some of the issues that exist in the functioning of first-degree criminal courts and that is one of the matters to be dealt with. Are the cases mentioned here something that should also be the subject of their consideration and work? Yeah. Is that what we should look at when prescribing a general norm in the Law of Infringements? We should keep in mind, but that can't be our main guideline. The main guideline should be the ultimate objective of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21741	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was even willing to vote for certain amendments to the opposition, but I noticed some illogicalities. Let's say that the legal persons, and here everyone was crying over the standard of citizens, etc., so the law reportedly lost the social dimension, but certain colleagues suggested that legal persons should be reduced up to ten times. Let's say, when the leader of their party to his company, without a public call, gets 10,000 tons of wheat for his jobs, means, without a public call, he sells it for 23 dinars, when he gets that loan, and when he gets it back, when the wheat is 16.5 dinars, so when he earns and when his debt is 87.5 million dinars in just three months, when he does, perhaps, that kind of violation, when we don't know whether those stores without a public call had the right to give it or not, when he commits such a violation, he gets punished with, say, 200 thousand dinars, if that offence is proven to be a violation. In my view, it's a false commitment to the social dimension, that is, moaning over the fate of a people who are poor, and I believe that these penalties most people can't pay. So when the offence is committed, most likely that many of these penalties will end in prisons, loans, etc. And it will be very difficult to pay any penalty given the economic situation we have encountered. I can't understand that the most regrettable are those who, for example, in the Traffic Safety Act predicted to register towed saucers, skaters, pickers, sprinklers, etc. So, it's mostly used by farmers, who almost have nothing to bite at, prescribed punishments, of course, when they do that kind of offence, which is not registered anywhere in the world, and they have to register every year, unlike tractors. So, this pull-on connection mechanism, which is less dangerous than the one you're wearing, if the police catch you and if they want, can fine you with a fine through a judge for violations by withdrawing your driver's license, therefore, and the right to perform your duties. So, if this law is applied consistently, you'll have to because of this violation, which is not a violation, because the connection mechanism neither has direction indicators, nor has brakes, nor has anything, but, let's say, in the Traffic Safety Act, which adopted the former government, it became a violation, other than a fine, you'll be punished also by withdrawing a driver's license, and therefore the right to exercise activity. So you won't be able to sit behind the wheel of your tractor anymore, you won't be able to hang on to that same sprinkler, plater, skater, or picker, to do some of your jobs, or activity, in this case agricultural. But that's why it's supposed to be, let's say that punishment for a legal person, that a colleague predicted, is reduced by 10 times, if someone took advantage of the situation. If someone is good with some of the stock reserves, and without a public call, they get 10 million pounds of wheat on loan, and then later, as the majority owner of the Covin silo, they get another five million pounds of cash on that kind of agro-business. As a result, the prices are low, farmers get killed, the wheat goes into devastation and for such a species, if that is a violation, the maximum penalty of 200,000 dinars is provided for that type of offence. I understand it, on the one hand, for the lesser penalties of the natural persons, but I do not want to go into the rest, as the owner of the legal person has gained the right to through such agro-business, without a public call, to gain no pain, no sweat, 87.5 million dinars in three months, and to result in a reduction in the price of wheat from 23 to 16.5 dinars, just to make a profit to something, which I believe is a serious offense, abuse of state reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21743	The word is a folk letter from Judita Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21744	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 106th and 107th, so to speak. You, Madam Vice President, did not react, and in fact, you violated the dignity of this assembly when you did not warn the previous speaker, so that it would be good to stick to the subject. You know what? We're really not happy about it, that somehow we always say something in advance, recommend and propose something that we have a good policy, and that later on with some subsequent smartness, the ruling coalition defines for politics... . (President: Mrs Popovic, please stick to the reasons of the Rules of Procedure that are listed. That is what it is, Madam Vice President, that two, three days ago in this House, it is said that there is no authorised representative of the High Council of the Judiciary. Everyone here has been talking about the fact that there are formal conditions to be done without a representative of the High Council of the Judiciary. What happened? The next day a representative appeared, and the next day, more or less, he took a word. At that time, no one other than the High Council of the judiciary asked for an apology from LDP MPs, who insisted on being there as a representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. So it's just that you can take over LDP policy, you can try to adapt to that policy, but you'll hardly be able to realize it. It takes far more than what your capacities are. You can insult, and you can punish, but the bottom line is that you don't understand what a twist is, which consists of a system of values that you need to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21745	I ask the MPs not to use the Rules of Procedure Institute to replicate the other MPs. I'm asking you in the future to keep everyone together. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21746	I just want to say that the government and most of them have accepted the amendment of counterpart Karic, so that was precisely the purpose and purpose of the amendment to reflect a failure to define the deadlines and we would not discuss this amendment. I want to thank you for noticing that such a problem exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21747	Thank you. Parliamentarians Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we come to an amendment that I think is extremely important, which I cannot believe the Ministry and the Government had no understanding, because this amendment directly helps and works in favor of the government. If she had also accepted it in favour of the Justice Ministry and had been adopted, she would have saved serious money from the Justice Ministry, and we know that the economic situation is difficult. I'm saying this because I want to show that there is a good will. The constructive amendments that are in the general interest of all can be submitted. What exactly is this about? It's about unfortunate situations, which we've talked about a lot, when punishment has already been imposed, when citizens can't pay fines and one of the consequences is the replacement of fines by prison. What was proposed by this bill is a situation which has been before, is that a change of fine can be made at a certain amount for the day of imprisonment. Before the current proposal, that amount is a thousand dinars. In particular, if this were translated, it would be clear to the citizens, e.g. If someone was punished by a fine of 100,000 dinars, and someone couldn't pay for it, he'd go to jail for a hundred days. That's about three months. It's not 60 days to go to jail in exchange for fines. The main thing of the amendments we've submitted is to raise the amount of money that's changed by a day of prison so that instead of thousands of dinars, that the amount is 3,000 dinars, that I cut the time periods by 10,000 dinars, they wouldn't go to jail for 10 days but three days. This is extremely important from the perspective of the citizens because we know that prison sentences are harmful, they cannot possibly have a positive impact on the perpetrators of the crime. On the other hand, it should not be forgotten that when the state prescribes a sentence, which we talked about today, it wants to punish the perpetrator. So, with those thousands of dinars, someone's already been punished. The state won't charge them because they're trading for jail time. What happens next? When you send someone to jail, it costs a budget, taxpayers, it costs the state. In a particular case, the money that goes from the Department of Justice's department to the execution of prison sanctions is an integral part of the Justice Department. That's why I said I think it's more of an interest for this amendment to be adopted by the Ministry of Justice. In particular, if the day of prison costs 2,000 dinars. A thousand dinars of unpaid fines go into the cost of three thousand dinars as a state. Isn't it celibate to reduce the number of prison days and thus reduce the damage to the country? In that sense, I think that the multiple interest of both the citizens and the ministry and the government is that this amendment is adopted and I really don't understand why there was no understanding because if some amendment was well-intentioned to help the government and the ministry it was this one. I would also like to hear the arguments a little closer to why it was not accepted because what is stated in the reasoning of the law is really not an adequate answer. The government's answer is that something like that is already in line with the relevant criminal code provision. I agree, but the Criminal Code can be changed. It's not something that's cemented. If we change this in the Law of Infractions, why don't the Ministry make amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, even with one member. I think the huge funds that would save the state, and yet to be easily supported by citizens, are a difficult economic situation. It's not the idea that a large number of citizens who can't pay go to jail, because if we go into such a situation then, I'm afraid, we simply won't benefit from the future, nor, most importantly, this law will achieve its purpose and essence, and that's the majority of the payment of fines. Therefore, I ask you once again to consider my amendment and that, if the minister has no understanding, in the day of the vote, we also adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21749	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41, Olgica Baric, a national MP, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21750	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I truly believe that you will adopt this amendment, and you will adopt it because of the arguments you have given, which have rejected that amendment, which in fact preceded your decision to adopt the amendments to the article. 84, 85 colleagues from DS. So you did this on the Committee of Resorbs and you can't do that without leaving this amendment to Article 42 and Article 329. So you have to harmonize the entire regulation with these amendments that you adopted on the Committee. So, it's about that, I'll read you what we suggested with this amendment. The amendment reads this - cannot be taken into account as aggravating circumstance previously imposed on the offender if more than two years have passed since the date of the decision's legality until the day of the new one's adoption. You refused with an explanation where it says – the government does not accept the proposed amendment because it is a member of Article 42(2). The proposal for a law in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Depreciation and Conduct of Violation Procedure, as well as the provisions of Article 329. The proposal for a law which provides for the removal of data from the register of sanctions and which provides for sanctions to be imposed on the legal person and the person responsible, as well as the entrepreneur, is to be deleted from the record by official duty if the person punished within four years of the date of the lawfulness of the decision, which has been imposed, does not commit a new offence. So I've read you a comprehensive explanation now. When you adopted those amendments, you basically reduced that period from four years to two years. Therefore, I do not think there is any reason for the amendment of the LDP MPs not to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21751	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21752	I'm just asking you to make sure that time goes by from the time of the amendment promoter. We didn't hear an answer from the minister just now. Why doesn't the minister understand that the day of prison counts as 3,000 dinars and not 1,000 dinars? We're arguing with the wall again. This is a very important topic. We've given you very significant arguments about how much money would be saved in this way, and money would be saved, because people wouldn't be in jail three times as long, and every day the state costs 2,000 dinars. There's no point, there's absolutely no point. We're talking about repression here without any need that you're trying to implement. You're trying to implement it in a time of terrible economic crisis, and it's at the expense of the state, because the state has to spend a lot more money, it's at the expense of citizens who don't have the money to pay so much fines. As the main argument we heard from the SNS that citizens do not have money because of some previous governments. You can't get used to being in power for a year and having to take responsibility for what you've been doing for a year. You've heard here the opposition's argument regarding an increase in VAT. We've seen you know how to raise taxes, VAT is bigger, property tax is bigger, all taxes in this country are bigger, penalties should be bigger, but I just don't know who's gonna pay for it and what it's gonna pay for, if we have the information that 40,000 have less employees in the last year. So now those who are unemployed are going to pay those great fines. They won't, because they don't, and then they're going to go to jail, but you're going to hold them for 1,000 dinars one day, so they're going to sit down all the way up to 60 days, because a fine of 60,000 dinars is your average for a physical face. The fines range up to 150,000. So, all 60 days in prison. Please take another look. The amendments are really well-intentioned. You'll be saving up the budget from that department that concerns the Department of Justice. I think it'll mean a lot to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21753	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21754	The minister wasn't there when I wanted to respond to his exposure. None of us here are against punishment. On the contrary, we are in order that the punishments may be adequate. Through what we have discussed, we have proposed some kind of progressive punishment, or one already present in EU-wide legislation. This is one trend in modern legislation, and this means that the rich pay more, and those who are more property are paid less and that every punishment is examplesd by property. We have an example of where the director of Nokia for over 25km per hour was fined 116,000 euros and it was done in accordance with his property situation. Later, she was reduced by a subsequent lawsuit, but the fine was 116,000 euros by a misdemeanor court for overturning from 25km to an hour. This solution exists in Italy where penalties range from 39 euros to 3.199 euros, in Greece from 40 euros to 750 euros and in other countries of our environment. Here we need to resort to the fact that the fines are not small, that there is a possibility for the rich, who have money, that is a whim for their survival, and on the other hand, that the fines of 50,000 dinars can endanger existence. If we know that the salary of a surgeon at the Clinical Center is 60,000 dinars, it's certainly a huge fine of 50,000 dinars for him, and for some manager who makes 10-15 000 euros a month is nothing. What was our intention, and this is about these prison sentences, because it's all about height and weighting punishment, a one-day sentence that's being spent in prison. We are going towards allowing this minimum of penalties to be put down, and that is to be an idea of thinking, as perhaps an addition to this law, and to allow a progressive rate of punishment that will be just and that will be in line with the property status of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21755	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21756	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, I really expected some answers from you, and that amendment to Article 42, and this amendment to Article 47. DS, but we didn't get any answers. So who are we talking to here? Do we really talk to walls? You didn't explain, Mr. Minister. You quickly moved on to the next amendment. How do you really imagine reducing the absolute age to two years and making it difficult for the circumstances, as a consequence of this violation, to lead for another four years? How does a four-year period make it difficult and two years of absolute obsolescence? It creates some kind of problem in this law. Believe me, soon you will appear again in parliament with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Infringement, and then you will speak – see how our Ministry of Justice and State Administration is doing, we are just generating laws. It is not true, Mr. Minister, you need to write the laws well and well to explain every institute you enter into that law. You didn't answer today. You don't have to have any sympathy, no antipathies towards the opposition MPs, but it would be good if you could consider all that is rational and what is truly well-meaning, if anything, at least with some objective attention, to consider these proposals and possibly decide in favour of these amendments. So it really matters if you punish someone by turning a fine of 1,000 dinars into a prison sentence, or turning a fine of 3,000 dinars into a prison sentence of one day. It is very important, as is important, that no one should have any consequences for a certain offence, if that offence is outdated, and absolutely. These are some of the disharmones that you have to take care of, and I would remind you of the Law on Amnesty, Mr. Minister, which was and how problematic it was. Then the main reason why the law was passed was the overcrowding of Serbian prisons. Then think about it when you go out with these bill proposals, and you don't listen to what the MPs of the opposition tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21757	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21758	Thanks for the comparison with the walls. I think I'm one of those who listens very carefully to all the amendments and when there's a need to react and speak. If I was just saying that the purpose of the law is to threaten a possible offender with a punishment that will follow him, then one who is considering whether a fine of 10,000 dinars will be sent to prison for three days or 10 days will react differently to a possible offender. On the other hand, please observe the bill in general. It is mentioned, both in the debate in principle, by MPs and ruling parties and opposition parties, that this law introduces the possibility of imposing penalties in the public interest. If you're going to overwrite it so easily, I don't think that's good. On the other hand, about whether it's going to be taken as aggravating circumstance of the fact that someone over the last four years committed a violation or not, it's mixing pears and apples, not to say something else. I think it was a little careless, and here's why. If any offenses are out of date, he's not on record. So, if someone's out of date with a misdemeanor, there's no record of him. On the other hand, you read yourself nicely that in the reasons for not accepting amendments we call for Article 329, which states that the records are deleted after four years. So there's some logic. Do not call only on what I think were good amendments and MP groups of DHSS-SP and MP groups DS, and who was at the board meeting when I explained the acceptance of this amendment, and there were a lot of people present here today, remembers that at that time I said that there were arguments both in favour of one and in favour of the other thesis, that it was a sword with two blades and that I was convinced by all MPs, although I had a dilemma that should be a period of limitations, but since the laws were well-involved and judges of criminal courts, somewhere I understood what their interest was in being that age. So, I think that the amendments to the deadlines of limitations, which have become an integral part of the bill, are good, because the judges of the criminal courts, some of the other good solutions of this bill, are well-resolved, and then they can't get, so to speak, double benefit. We gave them some benefits to these laws. It's not those who prove that there's a crime or not, it's those who file a misdemeanor. Well, then, if their work is, in some ways, simpler, they'll end it within a reasonable period of time. That's the story of whether the prison day should be 1,000 or 3,000 dinars. There is logic in what the applicants of these amendments say, there is no dispute. I even commend the level of debate, which I said earlier, and I think we're getting better and better. Then when I think it's necessary, I'll take the call, but I've just said the logic of a legislator's thinking in this case and I'm going back to it. So, is it a greater threat to threaten someone with three days in prison or ten days in prison? But that's not the point. If we introduce work in the public interest as one of the types of penalties, if we have a tendency to resuscitate that kind of sanctions in Serbia, and we have, in ten months, the number of offices dealing with the application of alternative sanctions has increased by seven, as formally as it has been, and effectively worked six, to 15, and we will continue until there is no such office in every senior court in Serbia and the application of such sanctions in co-operation with local self-government. What's more, I think it's much better and more effective. When you look at the countries where this sanctioning system has been developed, you will see that two-thirds of the penalties are just being executed in such a way, compared to the total number of penalties. Don't let it be overlooked in this debate. So, the goal is not to send people to prison, the goal is to prevent committing a crime and increase the sense of responsibility when it comes to respecting regulations. That's why I think the stronger arguments on this side are that the amendments are not accepted. As I mentioned earlier, therefore, you have well quoted Article 329. Deleting from the records takes place after four years, and outdated violations do not enter the records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21759	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21760	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have listened very carefully to you, but I'm really not sure that you have carefully read this position of Article 2. It's a bill of law. So, Mr. Minister, it's that you've separated obsolescence, and that period of absolute obsolescence, from the consequences of a certain violation. The consequences will survive even obsolescence and that erasure from criminal records. But you simply have all these members of the law: 42, 84, 85 and 329 to agree. You, if you leave it in this form of Article 42, you will have cases where the offence is outdated after two years of age and you will still be able to make a possible violation, to assume that it has consequences because it has not yet expired that period of four years. You have to sort of change that. If you don't think so, I think you're actually contradictory at the end compared to the beginning. That is the problem that awaits you in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21761	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21762	I listen very carefully and read the bill very carefully. The bill says well - if more than four years have passed since the day of the decision's legality until the day of the new one's adoption. What kind of obsolescence are we talking about? If a legal decision has been made, there is no statute of limitations. If an obsolescence has occurred in another case, obsolescence can also result from the behavior of the offender, but in that case the court did not do its job well, as soon as he allowed himself to become obsolete, if he did not call on him in time and if he did not respond in time. Please read it, it says – it cannot be considered as a daunting circumstance previously imposed criminal sanctions, if from the day of lawfulness of the decision until the day of adoption of the new one is more than four years. There's a legal decision, there's no statute of limitations. What else did you call for, in an explanation, before the adoption of amendments that accept amendments concerning limitation deadlines, to call for those deadlines, but also to delete them from the records. You know, it doesn't say that those deadlines have to be the same. It doesn't stand anywhere. Therefore, once again, do not mix obsolescence with the legal consequences of a judicial decision made. So where obsolescence occurred, there was no such thing as a rightful decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21763	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. You wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21764	Minister, you said-- the one who's thinking about whether for 10,000 dinars to go to jail or not, no one's thinking about going to jail for 10,000 dinars, people don't have the money to pay, so they go to jail. No one thinks he's better off in prison than paying the fine, but he doesn't have the money to pay the fine. Everything is connected, the price in prison is 1,000 or 3,000 dinars, with the heights of the fine. It's easy to connect. If you make it possible, what we've criticised, we've proposed to make it tops of 50,000, not 150,000 dinars. If you leave it to be 150,000 and you get a fine of 150,000 dinars and you don't have to pay, no property, you'll replace it with a fine in public service, in public interest. Well, whoever you send 150 days to work in the public interest, he's supposed to work half a year, so he's gonna lose his job, because he can't work in the public interest and go to his job. Or you'll replace all that with a prison sentence of 60 days, which you're entitled to under the law. You don't know what's worse. So, don't destroy people with unreal high sentences and this small value of 1,000 dinars, which replaces the day of prison or I don't know how many hours in the public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21765	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have listened carefully to your presentation. Is it that there was a dilemma "for" and "against" whether the sentence of prison should be, or a day to replace it with this amount, which would be a shorter or longer prison sentence, but you didn't answer me when you decided to refuse this amendment, did you do, what I was saying, a financial assessment? How much would the Department of Justice, specifically the Department of Prison Penalty, save money if proportional penalties were reduced? That's what I'm curious about, because I think we're talking about millions of euros here, since we've heard from our DSS colleagues that it's a large number of days in prison when it's being replaced. Of course, you're the only one who has that information at this point, or the Department of Penitentiary Sanctions of the Department of Justice. I'm just wondering, when you made the decision to reject the amendment, did you do that financial assessment? Because it might be easier for you to finance all the prisons, because the witnesses of these days, even if it was so written in the paper, that there was no money, that prisoners are being transported to trials, which is nothing new, that was a problem before, so you've always been a part of it, one way or another, to transfer funds because it's extremely important that the trials take place uninterrupted, especially not to be disturbed by something that's part of the Justice Ministry, or the Executive Authority. I think we could save a lot of money this way. So I ask you one more time – do you have a financial assessment as well? If that's some small amount that doesn't matter, I can also say that I wasn't right when I submitted the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21767	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Olgica Batic, a national MP, submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted to the 52nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21768	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Selakovic just said that we really have a proper and quality debate. I also wanted to really praise the amendment written by colleagues Konstantinovic, Homen, Mikovic and my colleague Vukkovic, but also to commend, of course, the minister for accepting the amendment. To explain to the MPs and citizens who are looking at what this is about, it is the position of minors in a misdemeanour procedure, which is always one delicate issue. Getting ready for this debate, I took back the books from law school, to read what respected professors in penology and criminal law think. I realized that the Serbian, two lawyers - three opinions were valid. It is really hard to find the right measure in which to punish in a misdemeanor procedure and whether to even punish a minor in some classical way, classical punishments, or in some other way. I must tell you that it is very good that colleagues of the above proposed the amendment and that the minister accepted that a different method rather than the strictest punishment should go to prevention for minors in the infringement procedure. Instead of going to some intense repression, going to retraining, going towards really showing the minors where their mistake was and learning not to make that mistake anymore. I'm even more convinced it's a good way to go. I recently had the opportunity to visit the House of Justice in Krusevec and to firsthand make sure that all those pictures that our citizens carry from those series "Grey House" or "Special Education" that it just isn't like that anymore. Today, indeed, there are modern educational and correctional institutions in Serbia, such as the Kruševec VP home, where, with the help of investors, people from the European Union, professional institutions, aided in reconstruction, has also helped to implement new methods of re-socialisation and re-education of youth. One word, the amendment itself and the idea that, let's just say, minors can't give away the safety of the ban on performance, it's a good measure because these minors who commit violations are allowed to work through their work, through work on themselves, but also work through work where they were employed, to return in this way, as our old people would say, on the right track. This is just one of the 23 amendments that Minister Selakovic accepted. I also really thank my colleagues who have proposed such an amendment because it is indeed the right way to give those minors who commit crimes their hand and thus allow them to become good, useful and best possible citizens of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21769	Thank you. Anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21770	We're going back to work. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the member and member of the 56th amendment, MP Olgica Batic submitted. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to the 56th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21771	As I pointed out on the Justice Committee, I will insist on this amendment and now, given that I have given more than valid reasons for adopting this amendment. I really don't think there was any room for this amendment to be accepted. It's not a criticism, it's just a reasonable argument. I have to repeat what I've pointed out many times. It's not a questionable safeguard measure, it's not a questionable function due to a safeguard measure, it's controversial what is covered by a safeguard measure and what is not. I must refer to something that is completely unclearly defined in article 56, because it is said that in this particular article 56, which defines a ban on legal persons to perform certain activities, in the first position next to the work, is mentioned in the second particular business. It would never occur to me to submit this amendment, that this term of other specific jobs was at least a little more precise, at least a little clearer. What are other specific jobs? I've tied myself to bankruptcy because it's what I do, because that's what I do and because I think it could result in harmful consequences for a creditor. For the purpose of meeting citizens, the bankruptcy is an enterprise that can be processed, which can be held accountable for the offence committed, i.e. illegal activity in which the markings of a particular offence are obtained. I'm not sure that any criminal judge, no matter what professional he would have to know about bankruptcy, is certainly well aware of what jobs they should not in any way be covered by this protective measure, especially those related to so-called business. two-sided and forward contracts, which are referred to by the same Article of the 56th proposed law. That's where I mentioned the lease, the use, and everything else that means obtaining income, and I'm going to mention it again. Basic sense, the basic principle of bankruptcy is two-dimensional. One aspect is the settlement of creditors, and the other is the coverage of the costs of the bankruptcy process. If any decision that would, in addition to the verdict, also apply to these matters, I am more than sure that these principles of bankruptcy would be seriously compromised, in order to pose a serious threat to trustees and seriously jeopardised sums of money to cover the cost of bankruptcy. Then why is there no understanding for accepting this amendment? I've heard the argument that this does not appear enough in practice or it's rare, I don't think that argument can be an excuse for not accepting such an amendment. If it's rare, it doesn't mean it's off as well, and it doesn't mean it won't show up. In my own practice, I had a situation like this. Once again, I really ask that, no matter what the government sees, it has not accepted this proposal for my amendment, think again about it. I don't know if it's happy enough, if it can be so qualified at all, what I wrote as a sequel to the text of the first position, but it can't be different, because it's precisely my amendment that these other jobs can be covered by a safeguard measure, other than those operations that take place in the course of bankruptcy against a legal person, and these operations that are conducted during bankruptcy are exclusively regulated by bankruptcy, or bankruptcy law, so I don't see any reason to be delegated by the Law of Infraction. So, Mr. Minister, once again, I ask you to consider with your understanding the reasons that are more than justifiable, factually justified and to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21772	Thank you. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 63rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21773	I will be very brief, given that my amendment is fully identical to Article 64 with the amendment that has been tabled by the MP group DS, and given that the amendment of the DS Group has been accepted, I also mean that what I have insisted through my amendment is absolutely respected, because it is unacceptable to make public the verdict that has been advertised and punished, or advertised guilty of a criminal offence by a minor, so since the DS amendment has already become an integral part of the bill, then there is no need for further comment and indeed in this direction is to praise what the ministry has understood and accepted, but again I still do not understand why my amendment is not accepted on Article 56? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21774	Thank you. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 72nd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21775	It's clear to me why the amendment has not been accepted. We've asked to delete the whole member, but we've done it to encourage a debate on this issue, because we think this is a very important thing. We are convinced that the objective responsibility of parents is for a violation committed by a child, an anachronic provision, and that it is not in line with modern civilizational trends. It exists under the applicable law. It entered into the current law by prescribing it from the previous, earlier Socialist, etc. I know right there's objective responsibility for a delinquent, and it's only prescribed exceptionally. I'll give you an example. The objective responsibility for the delinquent exists in the event of the objective responsibility of the organizers of the event, for example. Whether he wanted to or not wanted to mess up, the damage that arises, or any contradiction that arises from that convention, he has a certain objective responsibility. We maintain that parents must have responsibility for the behavior of their own children, who are obliged to exercise supervision, but the question arises, is it in accordance with civilizational trends, is an anachron norm in which responsibility for a particular violation of the person, which has not been committed at all? So this opens up some questions. The first question that opens up is whether in our right we can lay down the responsibility of parents to not exercise supervision, to be a violation of sui generis, even if it was prescribed by the General Law on Infringements, and to determine the punishment against that offence that will be committed by a minor, over whom he can supervise. That would be something else entirely, there would be a violation of the sui generis for the parent and would not be responsible for someone else's offense, but for the own violation that consists of not taking control, it's one idea to think. Another possibility is that in this domain, a criminal liability for another person's actions is completely avoided, even if it is an act committed by a minor, i.e. A face that's a child, a child up to 14 years old. But certainly that does not mean avoiding the material responsibility arising from the established delinquent. So there's a difference. Material responsibility can exist. Now I'm going to give you a few specific examples, and I would end up through these examples. If a child up to 14 years of age commits a violation, for example, playing with children in the yard kicks the ball and damages street lighting, it does harm, and on the other hand violates the provisions of public order and peace, this is where the question is now, since that person cannot misrepresent, a child up to 14 years old, how do you establish a parent's criminal responsibility like it just dumped the ball and did that damage? According to us, that's impossible. It is possible to establish responsibility for the compensation and damage to the parents' side. He can compensate for the material damage done by this action, but that he is responsible for the violation of public order and peace, he cannot. But if the parent was, as the law says here – he will be responsible for the offence, he will be punished for this offence as if he had committed it himself, the parent, there is thought of the foster parents, guardians, etc., if he was able to conduct such surveillance. Now, that rubber norm, whether he was able to monitor it or not, can be interpreted differently. In the current practice of courts, there are no excessive cases in which it has been found, at least in my knowledge, that someone, or was assumed, could have done this surveillance in any way. You know what that's about? This applies to the situation when a parent goes with a child, his child is at hand, and despite his presence and the supervision that he performs, so he could and did it, the child commits some kind of offence. But then the question arises whether this is how it should even be prescribed? Is then in that case this parent committed a violation of a particular kind for which he should be punished? On the side of the material responsibility for the damage that can occur. Or there may be abuse, so that the court, acting court, assess that the offence committed by a minor, that the parent would always be responsible and that he could always be able to carry out that surveillance if the child could theoretically be under his supervision or under his ageing at a given time. For example, he let him go out on the street to play football with his peers and they did damage on a public facility, violated public order and peace, the entity of the offense occurred, and the court can say that the parent is responsible for the offence and that he has to punish himself for that offence. The same is true in case a minor child comes out to play, his little older peer comes along, in this case that the DSS exhibits about the heights of the fine, that's the example that Dejan Michael took out, so he gives him a motorcycle, gets him to sit down, he drives a motorcycle without a license, he's 13 and a half years old, he goes through two red lights, makes a series of more violations on the way home, so who's responsible for that violation? If the parent wasn't with him and didn't encourage him or watch him dead cold watch him sit on that bike, reading these provisions of the law shouldn't be responsible for a violation. But where's the guarantee? Can the court estimate that he might have been able to stop him, that he might have been able to conduct that surveillance? What does this rubber norm look like in practice – and he was able to monitor, was he able to conduct surveillance? How do we know that? Very difficult. We think that the solution is in something else – that this anachron norm should be expelled, objective responsibility should be avoided for someone else's delinquency, the constitution of any responsibility for their own delinquent, which would consist of a failure of supervision, describe the offence in the law, give the appropriate punishment or refer to the appropriate punishment, the way in which the accused would be punished, not to confuse it with objective responsibility for the child, and certainly leave material responsibility for the damage that has taken place because, after all, it is not even the subject of this law. So we really ask you to give this in the future to think and to do what it takes to make a more modern, better and more efficient norm, which would not be a trace of objective responsibility for someone else's misdemeanour.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21776	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21777	Without the intention of causing controversy over the amendments, I would start with what is present in court practice, and materially with legal regulations already regulated. Then let's start with the facts. The first fact is how to take illegal action in which the traits of crime or crime are obtained. Two ways. One way is by missing, or by not doing, and another by doing or by acting actively. In the particular situation of failure, as defined in Article 72 on which the amendment has been submitted, the obligation of supervision shall be exercised. In any case, parental supervision is required to perform with multiple aspects. First, from the point of view of civilization standards. It's parenting versus child. The second aspect is something that involves what the courts must consider. When are parents in a position to carry out the duty of oversight, or when can they do so? Well, when they live in a community with a child, when education methods are carried out continuously, when it's done according to some standards that involve child education, through care, care, love, and everything else that is normally provided to a child and, ultimately, what involves normal growth, development and child rearing. If that's the case, then in no case can the parent be either absolved or amnesty for anything that the child does outside of that duty-supervised position. We may believe that this may be fluid or not, but it is undoubtedly true that a parent who misses these types of respect for civilization standards, while at the same time in inaction, failure and what he is obliged to do and thus challenges the consequences, and the consequence is a violation that the child committed, cannot be amnesty, nor released for liability for that offence. On the other hand, let's not forget one fact. We have a partial responsibility that is contained in the provisions of the law in bond relations. In this law, the parent is also responsible for the damages and adverse consequences caused by the child's illegal activity, but in this case by partial action, which causes damage and adverse consequences. Who's answering? It's a parent's answer. So we can't in any way look at this beyond what's already been defined and prescribed. We may have different interpretations, but these facts cannot be questioned or challenged. I therefore believe that this article is fully acceptable, not only acceptable, but also one norm, in a specific case and imperative character, which solves one situation which, otherwise, must be addressed in every democratic and civilised state in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21778	I beg the Members of Parliament, it is not the right of an MP to defend the amendment. It's the minister's obligation. MPs have an obligation to explain and to give a view of the amendment. So I ask you, in the future debate, to state your position under the amendment given, not in terms of defence, which is otherwise the obligation of the minister. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21779	I'm just afraid we didn't understand each other. So I'm going to read what that Article 72 is. – when a child has committed a violation of the duty of parental supervision, it must first be determined whether it was a parent's duty to monitor, I shorten, I'm not talking about other persons who are under obligation, I'm cutting short on parents, and he was able to carry out such surveillance, so it has to be determined, means he's not a child on a field trip, but under his supervision in a physical sense, he eats, he says - he'll be punished for the offense as if he did it himself. There's a problem, my dear colleague, so it's not a problem in responsibility for the failure of surveillance, that's where we fully agree, and the mechanism of responsibility for missing surveillance must exist. It's impossible to let the kids do what they want, and that's why nobody's answering anything. To bring about the beings of a misdemeanor around the face of a younger than 14 years old, and nothing to anyone. Of course, I totally understand. We're in full agreement. The only thing we don't understand is that we think that in the current law and the one before it, and even now, by cheating, this law uses an anachronous formulation of rubber formulations, which it says, which is surpassed by us, which it says - that it will be punished for this violation as if it is now. .. No interpretation must be in grammar in technique, it must be such that it is in itself a violation. It's one option, and it has to be prescribed in itself as a violation, and the punishment can be measured at the level of the punishment for the offence that the child committed, it's something else. I'm afraid neither in the applicable law nor in the proposal does it say so, but that the objective responsibility of someone who didn't commit an offence is established. That, dear colleague, is not possible, not what you say, and the material responsibility absolutely stands and stems from the Law on Bond Relations and it must exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21780	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21781	First, according to the Rules of Procedure, the objection to you, Mr. Chairman. I'm referring to Article 27. I'm not defending the law. I'm expressing my position in relation to what the amendment provides, and my position is very clear, so I'm asking you to have an understanding in this direction. This is also the position of the SPS parliamentary group, and you are no longer giving me these remarks. Secondly, let me just say, we've already opened the polemics, there's no reason for controversy if we're at the same wavelength, I'm just saying we're at the same wavelength as the facts. I'm just going to point out something that I find very important. We must take care of what the courts will do in these situations, because it is on the judges and courts that, on the basis of the actual building that is in front of them, when identifying them, and whether or not someone is guilty or not, they must have in mind and these facts, whether someone has had the opportunity to control a minor or not, whether or not this surveillance has been carried out. So it is not up to us to assess the opportunity, to say, to analyse this member of the law, but it is exclusively in the hands of the courts, which is in accordance with the provisions and the Law on Infringement Procedure, i.e. on infringements in the part where it is a procedural law, to have the opportunity to shed light on these facts and on the basis of these facts, that, as the esteemed colleague said to the norm, clarify and analyse, enlightened, and ultimately, after careful consideration of all the circumstances, they have made an adequate decision. Thank you. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21782	We end up with replicas, it doesn't make sense anymore. The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21783	All right, thanks, it's not my fault. Once again, let me remind you of this example, supporting in this part of my colleague Jovanovic, because it does sound extremely reasonable, as you just said. When it comes to signing, it must also be taken into account the extreme situations that may occur. I've just set an example once more, and that's what I end up with. I remind him, imagine the child saying, "Give me money for I don't know, buy me pills, he says, "I won't, don't you, now you'll see." He runs out of the apartment, sits next to a neighbor's kid on a motorcycle without a license, when he's 13.5 years old, goes through three red lights, deliberately sees him, and says, "Listen, I'll do this to you every time you refuse to give me the money." I'm kidding, of course. But I want to tell you that there are extreme situations in life that we have to sort out in some way, you know, and it can't be solved with this standard of Article 72.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21784	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21785	It's just as standard as provided for in Article 72 that this should be resolved. Why? Because child behavior up to 14 years old means children up to 14 years old, he's an absolutely responsible parent. As counterpart Nejo said, of course the court will decide whether or not the parent could or did not observe the child. What is a fact and what the Family Law also foresees as one of the duties and obligations of parents among other things is child rearing. Raising a child doesn't mean a parent should be with him at any time. It's not a one-minute situation. Raising and raising an adequate parent child's relationship is a process. It's continuous and lasts. Thus, a child who has an adequate parent’s child’s relationship certainly will not go away, takes a motorcycle out of his father’s spite, and rides a few laps so that the parent will misrepresent it. Thus, it must be stated in the law that a parent is responsible for carrying out the duty of oversight of his child. It is certainly also a prevention of the illegal or misdemeanour of a child, or a minor. Article 72 is absolutely in line with the protection of the best interests of the child, and that is what in this law provisions concerning minors are implemented through all its provisions. In addition to protecting the best interests of the child, it must also be the responsibility of those who are legally obliged to supervise, train, school, care for health, nutrition, etc., which are parents, guardians, fosterers, adoptors, although the adoption of a parental child's relationship is based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21786	Mr. Aligruditch, I don't think you really have a basis for replication right now. The MP has expressed his position on this amendment. He didn't even mention you, so I don't see a basis for replication. The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk emissary, Theodore Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21787	Since this amendment practically gives some solution to previous dilemmas, counterpart Srdjan Mikovic has just proposed to separate objectively from subjective responsibility. His amendment had in mind the need to separate objective from subjective responsibility, he proposed a solution that, in all likelihood, also results in the discussion as the best solution, i.e. that the parent cannot meet the proportionate work that the minor had done, but rather the failure of supervision with the obligation to compensate for the damage at the same time, which is in line with the norms of our legal system. As part of this overall discussion, it is very difficult to assess what is due attention and parental supervision, especially in view of new research that shows that regardless of domestic education, parenting is given to their children, the greatest influence on children is not parents, but peers and environments. It is thus difficult to determine and punish the subjective responsibility in some situations only parents, or guardians.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21788	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21789	Article 27 of the conduct of the session. If I could have reacted right after the injury was done, I'd have reacted, but I didn't make it since you gave the word differently and you didn't see me. First of all, you can't tell the MPs what they're going to say, as you tried to do with Mr. Neđa Jovanovic. He has the right to speak of any proposed amendment, including one he doesn't like, and he has the right to defend it. Secondly, when you're already allowing replicas, and you don't have to be allowed, isn't it quite natural, Mr. Chairman, that you allow the replicas to be heard about the essence of the matter that's being discussed, but some political matters? Isn't that the essence of Parliamentarianism, that we can say, and that we are in particular, when you, as chairman of Parliament's duty to oversee the work of parliament, have in mind that someone has completely misread the words of the one defending the amendment. If that happens once, all right, you gave me the right to a replica. If that happens one more time, then like I don't have the right to a replica. So next, ten of them can come forward, misread what I said and explain to the viewers in the next half that I said something tenth of what I said. So I have no right to defend my position? What does that look like?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21790	Mr. Aligrudić, I think you know the Rules of Procedure well, and you know in what conditions and when it is given the right to reply. Therefore, I do not believe that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, and you may request that in the day of the vote you plead. You don't have to? Okay. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 of Section 1 and Section 3. - The MP shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury has been done. Article 3 – The President of the National Assembly shall give a word to the People's Parliament, which shall indicate the violation referred to in Article 1 immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. So, the previous speaker advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure with a delay, so not immediately after the injury was done. I don't mind you giving him your word, but in the future, since the Rules of Procedure should respect the opposition and the position, make sure it doesn't always be at our expense, and I don't mind the opposition favoring it. So, with that in mind, I'm not asking that in the voting day, we make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. She's done for me, but you don't have much responsibility for it, given the circumstances under which this injury occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21792	Since you're not asking us to make a statement, I'm just saying, I have to admit, I'm not so capable of respecting everything. I'm guessing the MP called and I didn't see him. Then it's my failure, but good. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21793	I am talking about my colleague Mikovic's amendment to Article 72(1). We had previously heard the presentation and colleagues of the DSS Aligrudic, who explained his amendment, which the government refused. Also, the government has rejected the amendment of counterpart Mikovic, who is trying to find a compromise solution. I can't accept, no matter what exposure I've heard here, that a parent should answer as if he's committed an offence that he didn't actually commit, but it did his child. Now a child who is a motorbike, mentioned during today's afternoon debate, on a field trip, comes a parent to court and you judge a parent, like you did a misdemeanor, says – no, I haven't been on a field trip at all, you have, you've been on a field trip and you've been riding that bike and it's your fault. It doesn't make sense, it's not normal. I agree that a parent should exercise due diligence over the child, and I agree that we can take it upon ourselves and that the court can judge whether someone has performed the duty of supervision or not, and I agree that a parent can be punished for failing to supervise the child because it was his obligation. It's a kid who's less than 14 years old. But I can't accept it, it doesn't make any sense that someone's answering for breaking the window, and they didn't break it. He was in another town, he was at work, etc. A colleague, Mikovic, offered a very simple solution, which is to change attitude 1 only in the last part of the sentence, so that instead of saying that for the offence, as if they themselves did, it is thought of parents, it is said that parents can respond because of missing due diligence, with the possibility of obliging to compensate for damages at the same time. It is not disputed that underage children's parents are obliged to compensate for damages if the child does harm. It is not disputed that they should respond if they did not treat their children with due supervision, but it is abnormal to answer for something they did not do. Please just look at this amendment one more time and accept this solution. It's pointless, I can't imagine what this trial looks like and how someone's defending himself from not riding a motorcycle because he wasn't on a field trip with his kid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21794	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21795	That's amendment number 31 to Article 73? Just to check, since I haven't heard, the chairman, exactly what you said, in Section 4. (President: Yes. This is a very important topic. We're getting into the subject of juvenile proceedings and juvenile prison. We've had our doubts about it on the board. We talked about it in a debate in principle. Our position is definitely not to be in our breaking legislation that there is a punishment for juvenile prison. I tried to convince you last time. Obviously, that didn't work. Juvenile prison is given to minors for the most serious crimes, and it is not pronounced for the most serious crimes just like that, but must be filled with cumulatively certain circumstances in order for an elderly minor to be punished in the first place. Article 28 The law on juvenile offenders in criminal and legal protection is explicitly prescribed that an elderly minor who has committed a criminal offence for whom the law prescribed a sentence of more than five years can punish a prison if due to a high degree of guilt, nature and severity of a criminal offence it would not be justified to impose a minor sentence. So, for the most serious crimes, the sentence of juvenile prison is pronounced. Why do you insist on punishment for violations for juvenile prison? You can't give this sentence even for crimes of various kinds, and you want it to be possible to commit a crime. Please do not interfere with any more crimes or offences. Violations are the easiest offenses. A minor, under this law, can be in juvenile prison for violations for up to 30 days. What's the point? What's going to happen to someone who's 16, 17 years old after 30 days in prison, who's going to support themselves with adult faces? I think he's going to make a comeback in the execution of crimes. The negative effect of a prison on the psyche of minors is terrible. There are studies on that. I don't see any reason why you won't accept the fact that a juvenile prison shouldn't be a punishment at all. Statistics say that in the last 16 years, no juvenile prison sentence has been imposed in Belgrade, with one or several being given in the first-degree procedure. All those fines in juvenile prison have been converted by the Supreme Court to fines. So no one has been legally sentenced to juvenile imprisonment. What's this punishment for? We're talking about prevention again. Punishment prevention, five million, ten, 150 million, the bigger, the better. We're supposed to have a juvenile prison sentence here for a misdemeanor which in the end, thank God, no one says. We talked last time that we didn't have specialized departments of criminal court that went through special training so they could judge minors at all. You said, "There is seven months of time for the law to be applied, and they will be applied." It's possible they'll be prepared, but what's certainly not going to happen in seven months, it's to build an institution for minors. There's no way to build a new prison. You haven't built anything in over a year, so you won't have that prison. We have the Department of Juveniles in Valjevo, I repeat again, where there are over 100 adult offenders who support the punishment, where there are 29 minors who were minors when they committed a crime and are no longer minors, and these are serious crimes, and there is a minor presently. Now you want to send to Valjevo for 30 days those who commit a violation. I think it's totally unacceptable. You mentioned on the board of England and how in England, there, and minors answer in court for minors. England has never been a role model for Serbia when it comes to breaking legislation and dealings with minors at all. We have a rich tradition of procedures with minors and the role models were Germany, Switzerland and Austria. In none of these countries, there is a possibility that someone who is not trained to treat minors is judging about it, nor is there a chance of being sentenced for violations by any minor to the sentence of juvenile prison. There's a judge there who's an individual for crimes and crimes, the same judge, and then for the most serious crimes, he can punish a prison, and he can't do it for a crime. Please respect these arguments. Don't play with people's fates and human lives. We're talking about people who are 16 and 17 and are being forced into prison where killers sit. It's just not appropriate for a misdemeanor. You can make faces. In Valjev, there are minors who are convicted of serious murders. With them, you want to put someone in the same room who committed the crime. I absolutely don't think there's any point, and I'm asking you to reconsider. If you do not want to support this, I would ask my fellow MPs from all MPs to look at the amendment to this article and try to find the majority and vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21796	National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21797	Thank you. I'd like to get an answer. Article 81, the three positions we've proposed to delete, are currently on the sentence of juvenile prison. I ask the Minister to give us an official and public response why he does not accept these amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21798	Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 84th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21799	Mr. Minister, we will not insist on this amendment because the objective of the amendments we had in mind when it was submitted is to accept the amendments of my fellow opposition groups, I think from the DS. I think it's very important that you have heard about the arguments that we have made to you, primarily in the principle of debate, and it's very good that the deadlines of limitations and relative and absolute are not changed, but they have remained as was the applicable law, because by any chance there has been an increase and extension of these deadlines, it is certain that we would not be talking about an effective infringement procedure today, nor would the misdemeanors work faster. On the contrary, they would do much slower, and the misdemeanors would be further slowed down. Once again, thank you for understanding and for the openness of the arguments that came from the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21800	The 84th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Olgica Batic and joint MPs Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Babic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21801	Dear Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we think it is very good that the government has accepted the amendments of our colleagues, Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Babic, and not only to Article 84, it is several amendments. All these amendments systematically regulate the application of the law on violations in the area of public procurement. Right away, as a lawyer, I understand that this law would be properly applied in the area of public procurement and without this clarification. I think it is very good that colleagues Arsic and Babic remembered to explain the application and the whole procedure of applying the law on violations in the area of public procurement, because it is fully in line with both the fight against corruption and zero tolerance, especially corruption in the area of public procurement. We all know that Europe has estimated that we have lost about 600m euros annually on corruption, bribery and various other yields below grain, as it would say, in the area of public procurement. It is the new Public Procurement Act, proposed by the SNS parliamentary group and adopted by the Assembly, that has put an end to the good part of these illegal activities. It is good that the law on violations also recognises the need to fight corruption and continue through criminal proceedings. Of course, it was also in the original text of the law, but it is good that it was explained to the amendments by counterparts Zoran Babić and Veroljub Arsic that exactly the procedure for violations in the area of public procurement, which are the authorities, which are the deadlines for these proceedings to be completed, and of course later, the law itself provides for penalties. I will not report later, but I definitely want to say that there are four more such amendments, so by accepting the amendments by the government and Minister Selakovic, the law certainly has become more quality and more adapted to the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21802	The 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 84th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21803	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, too, from the LDP, support the extension, in fact, of the shortening of that limitation period from two to one year. That's fine and that's in Article 84 in point 1. But what about attitude 5? That's definitely the problem that you're making such an imbalance in your attitude. That's the problem with this bill, which you don't have some balanced access to the whole subject of a misdemeanor. It is, in fact, that problem that we pointed to and when we submitted that amendment to Article 42 and when we pointed out that you had to balance that balance between an absolute ageing period and an erasure of the criminal record. So that's the problem with the law if you're two ways to deal with a problem, whether you're repressive or not, to what extent are you going to be, or simply, you don't have criteria? This is our basic objection to the law and to this article 84, especially since you have defined yourself to somehow reduce that obsolescence to a moderate period of time. A citizen cannot suffer all the consequences of an inefficient administration of an inefficient state administration. The state administration is the one who and how it should take care of how and what it does, which, normally, also applies to courts. The point is, if you really wanted to change something fundamentally in this article 84, then you needed to go a little deeper into the contents of this article of the law. So we suggested that instead of - five years, we set - three years for the term of the 5th term, for obsolescence. So that's the point that five years is too long a time period, especially if it's about that deadline for absolute obsolescence. It's a double time period of those five years. So, for ten years, you will be able to extend your ability, sanctioning, or conducting a procedure in customs proceedings, in foreign trade, in the foreign exchange business of public income, we now hear public procurement, finance, traffic of goods and services, environments, prevention of corruption, etc. What does that mean? That means, in some ways, you can hold in your hands and some elements that are inappropriate, that you can exert influence, since you can always conduct a misdemeanor procedure and then dragonically punish that inappropriate element. The point is, you have to keep an eye on the law when you write and suggest it in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21804	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21805	I said at the beginning of today's debate that it is good that we have returned the limitation deadlines to what they were, but in this part I absolutely support the amendment of my colleague, Judith Popovic. I'm talking about some specific violations whose limitation period is prescribed in some other laws, not in this law. Here you make it possible in these other laws to start the prosecution for five years. That's five plus five. So, these violations are ten years out of date. Therefore, for violations of customs and foreign trade foreign exchange transactions, public income and finance, goods and services, environments, the prevention of corruption and air traffic is five years old. If we have a double absolute deadline, it's ten years. I don't accept the fact that it takes ten years for a criminal trial to end a customs offence. It's ten years old. We're doing this Omnibus law. I hope that in Omnibus law all violations will be numbered. We'll get a chance to cut back then. But why don't you accept this amendment now and at the beginning let them know that it can't be more than three? So it's going to be three plus three, as we have one plus one year, so two years, the absolute age of all violations. For these specifics not to be more than six, like ten years. What does it look like when someone sentences us after nine years for a customs offense? You also forgot when there was a violation and the question is whether you have a firm still here that committed that customs offense, or from public income. Well, the judges can't make it, so it's very complicated. Because it's very complicated here, it takes them 10 years, and for this second one, it takes them two years less complicated. There's a big range between two and eight years. If it's complicated to transfer to another court, which court is unable to rule in ten years' customs or foreign currency? I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21806	Members of the 85th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen, Nenad Konstantinović, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 87th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 89th Amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we have asked this amendment for the court to carry out evidence on official duty. In the draft law, that possibility is provided for only by the parties, more specifically the court shall, on a proposal from the parties, carry out evidence of a misdemeanour procedure. We thought this was a very important amendment. Of course, I don't have the ambition to ask you to accept it, because in a conceptual sense, it would completely bounce away from what you suggested. In an explanation, which is why you reject this amendment, you say - that the government does not accept the amendment because it is the legislator's intention to make the court impartial in a dispute in which the parties should have a level playing field. Whether evidence is carried out in a misdemeanor procedure on a proposal by parties or by official duty, the court must always be impartial, but it is not good to be passive, because it is not the purpose of a misdemeanor, and hence the criminal procedure, avoiding the truth, but rather the determination of the truth. We express our concern and disagreement with the concept that you have foreseen here, because the concept of a new Code of Criminal Procedure, which has entered into force, which is still not applicable, is being rewritten into breaking legislation, more specifically in this draft law on infringements. We are much against it, because we believe that the basic characteristics of this Code of Criminal Procedure are the elimination of the principle of truth entirely from the process, then, the full inequality of parties and the passivity of the court with regard to the determination of truth. Also, here in this explanation you say – that the principle of proof encourages the interest of parties in the dispute. Well, the parties are interested in the outcome of each dispute, but it's not good that with such a solution and with such a concept they are placed in an unequal position. On the one hand, it is a public prosecutor or another state body that initiates a misdemeanor procedure, regardless of whether it is a representative of the Ministry of the Interior or of an inspector who has the keen support of the entire state apparatus, and on the other hand is accused, who can hardly have a wanted defender. The question arises – what are the chances of success in such a procedure? Maybe they're good-looking, but only if he's in a position to provide a good lawyer and a good lawyer and what it costs. We are all witnesses that parties in a misdemeanor proceedings, or the defendants, appear without a lawyer, in most cases. Also, the inequality of parties, in particular, occurs when it is predicted that the court appreciates because of the severity of the offence that the defendant is not necessary to come to court and defend himself, but can do so on the basis of both written and written form. I must say that the parties, specifically blamed in a misdemeanour procedure, are usually legal laity and that they may not be familiar with and are not aware of the importance of their role in a misdemeanour procedure, and because of such a situation, they may be in a position that many of the misdemeanors, i.e. procedural actions, simply ignore, or do not, and of course their position in such a procedure, are much worse than it was meant to be. I think that the objective of a misdemeanor, and hence the criminal proceedings, and how it should be to determine the truth, and not to avoid the truth, and if the purpose is to determine the truth, then it is necessary for the court to carry out evidence and not only to do so on a proposal from the parties, because if that is not the case, and this bill tells us that the court is not obliged to determine the truth in the infringement procedure, then I believe that we will not get the correct verdict, to the correct decision. If we don't have the right decision, then we don't even have a good judiciary. It is therefore important to accept the amendment. I ask you to reconsider accepting this amendment because it significantly contributes to the quality of the text of the law. Chairman, in the end, let me tell you that I have used the time of my authorised representative, because it would like my colleague, Jovan Palalic, to use the time after the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21808	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21809	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, we've talked a lot about this subject. We talked about the Code of Criminal Procedure in principle, and we talked about it when it was debated. My colleague, Milica Radovic, has expressed our position that we have represented here several times in the National Assembly, and have often been lonely, noting that this mixing, intertwining the solution from the litigation procedure in criminal proceedings, in this case a misdemeanor procedure, can not do any good, in the extreme line cannot achieve the purpose of what is prescribed by this law. On the one hand, parties are left with an initiative to prove it. Apparently, the court is passive. It leaves here an exceptional possibility that he's obtaining evidence under official duty. But it's not exactly like that. If you look at a series of provisions in this law, you'll see that the court is not passive at all. Then the question is, why didn't it go all the way? The court is not passive because he and some other authorities have the opportunity to, through measures of detention, detention, influence whether the party, in this case, the accused, will appear in the proceedings. The court is not passive because it can appreciate a plea agreement. The court is not passive because, at the very end of the line, it can decide whether a party will be invited at the moment of carrying out the evidence. She can estimate, if she's already been heard, that she's not invited. That court isn't passive at all. Then the question arises -- why hasn't he been given until the end of the possibility, why hasn't the possibility of him carrying out evidence on official duty? Because it's a violation, where the public interest of this court would have to be more prominent in the case of litigation. The principle of material truth, I think, is more necessary and significant in criminal proceedings and criminal proceedings than it is in litigation. So, the thing is, if this is set up, it's not done until the end and the court isn't impartial at all and it's not tied at all, but in this situation, in a very strange way, it's not allowed for the court to be active. In that sense, we feel it is necessary to change the whole concept. We disagree, but it would be very important to accept this amendment, because if someone needs to protect the public interest and the good that protects these violations, it should be a court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21810	The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21811	Minister, the government has not accepted the amendment. I need to read what it is that we suggested. Article 93 states - before making a decision, the defendant must be given the opportunity to declare the facts and evidence that burdens him and to present all the facts and evidence that goes in his favor, and then you add – except in the cases provided for by law. There's no case where the defendant can't say everything he thinks he needs to put into his own defense. Anyone who's guilty, who's a suspect, has the right to state everything he thinks he should when he defends himself. I saw from the explanation that you wrote that it was because there was a misdemeanor warrant. You're wrong. If someone thinks that he has not committed an offence that has been imposed on him and that criminal order, he will, with that order, go to court and practically in such a way to initiate the proceedings, and then in that procedure, he will present everything he thinks should be brought into his defense. So I think the better solution is to leave out this part that says – except in the cases provided for by this law. Maybe there are other cases in the law that we haven't been able to spot. So there's absolutely no reason to ban the defendant, in any case, from saying everything he thinks is going to his advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21812	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'll be very brief. A good part of what I was about to say was already said by my colleague Konstantinovic. I completely agree that this part of the law has a title called defense rights above it. A fine sentence begins, saying that each of the defendants must be given the opportunity to state the defence, the facts and the evidence that will go into his contribution, and then you give the exception and narrow down, you remove the right to defend certain cases, and you say so – except in the cases provided by law. 'From the explanation, as my colleague said, you show that you are calling on a payment order. I can understand there that can cause a problem. What's my main problem here, I hope my colleagues agree, is that this is a very bad definition, because if you wanted to, you should have written it – except in the cases provided for by this law. It means only this law can limit the right to defence. In other words, as you've written, we can use the Law on Agriculture, by law, from any other jurisdiction to restrict the right to defence. I think it's clear and it's something that's been talked about before. This broadly set, you leave the possibility of any law restricting, abolishing or reducing the rights of the defendant to the defense. I think it's a serious failure and that's why I think you should adopt this amendment, because I don't think we should talk here, the citizens know well, you all know well, and who is a lawyer, and who isn't, that the right to defend is one of the basic human rights, that it's guaranteed by the Constitution, and in this way you're seriously entering human rights. This brings us back to what our future is. If it is an idea, if we want to go through European integration, which is that our legislation, and the Constitution itself, must comply with European standards, with the Council of Europe conventions, with EU directives. This is definitely not in line with the standards that exist in developed countries. Once again we reach one member, if this law is passed, it will be subject to recent changes and additions. I think it's better to do it now than to change something that we've already discussed in a few months or years. Therefore, I ask you to consider adopting this amendment or, if there is no willingness of the Government, that in the day of voting the parliamentary group decide to support this amendment and correct this obvious failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21814	Members of the 94th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond; joint MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Koluncija and joint MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21815	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's a good thing this amendment was accepted, because it didn't make sense and it would have been counter-constitutional and illegal if it had remained a formula originally given in the form of what the court decides. The court would decide what the Constitution and the law already guarantee. On the other hand, we know what the current practice is. There is probably a practice to apply language and minority letter in court proceedings. You have, for example, a report from three years ago by the Council of Europe saying that Bulgarian language was used in the Pcinj County, the village of Bosilegrad, in 20 cases. There is no case in this court that has been led in Albanian. The explanation is that these parties do not require it. I am also looking at this formulation in the opinion of the 5th same member, where it is said that the party can waive the rights to conduct proceedings in its own language, if it understands the language in which the proceedings are conducted. The procedure is usually done in Serbian. You know, a simple situation, a mere practice, to conduct a minority language court procedure increases the size of a job. This increase in the volume of work is not valorised, it is not evaluated officially and the judge who conducts the procedure in the minority language, he will be in a position to process fewer cases, lag behind colleagues who work only in Serbian. Absolutely, then, practice is such that it is mostly suggested to the parties if they know the language that they do not have to use constitutional and legal law. That's why legal norms should be encouraged to give support to that law which is guaranteed by the Constitution and the law. On the other hand, we have in practice major problems because of the lack of judicial staff that knows minority language, when it comes to the area where it is official, it is legally regulated that Albanian language can also be used in judicial proceedings, in Bojanovac and Presevo, I speak Albanian, it is a great handicap that there are no Albanian people who know the language. Currently, there is only one Albanian minority candidate at the Judiciary Academy, and in general, there are only five judges who know Albanian language, two in violation and three in the basic court. Then the question arises, when there is no adequate representation of the minority in the judicial system, neither trainees are received for three, four years, there is only one at the academy, then the question is – how to solve, how to improve this situation? When only one candidate competed in these four years, he was rejected. We have huge problems here in implementing this constitutional and legal requirement. It's okay to improve the original version, it's probably going to have a positive incentive, but I think there's a lot more to be done to make what the Constitutional Law predicted come true in practice. Not to mention that the Presevo Criminal Court is overbooked, because there are only two perpetrators, only two judges have four earlier, and we're not talking about a misdemeanor in Bujanovci's case having to go to Vranje... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... which is the general problem of this reform that was made three years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21816	Members of the 95th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members and members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Petkovic. You have two minutes and 40 seconds at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21817	Thank you. Mr Minister, with full understanding that you have accepted a number of amendments that this law on infringements complete and correct in some way, when it comes to public procurement, I think that the solution proposed by this amendment can be quite dangerous, because this amendment reads that the first-degree infringement procedure for public procurement infringements is led by the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. So it's not the court, it's the Republic Commission. The question arises – why is such a solution accepted? I do not believe that the reason why the President of the Commission is a lawyer is because I do not believe that the salary of the President of the Republic of Serbia is equal to the salary of the President of the Great Court, increased by 10%, certainly is not the reason why the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chooses the President of the Republic of Serbia, as is elected by the judges. But when we imagine what it will look like in practice, we will have a solution that the same body will initiate a misdemeanor procedure, conduct a misdemeanor procedure and make a decision, and only in the second degree will the entire court be involved in the whole story. The DSS MPs today and the other day stressed the need for the Law on Infractions to be brought into line, i.e. to follow the Public Procurement Act, so that it applies more consistently in practice, primarily in the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia. It is not good that we move these things out of the courts and trust some other bodies that have other powers, which are formed with other tasks and with the aim of dealing with some other procedures, because above all this Republic Commission should act as a second-degree body in the process of controlling public procurement rather than as a first-degree infringement procedure for public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21818	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21819	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of truth, I will use time for this amendment, but I think it represents the alignment of the Law on Infringements with the Law on Public Procurement that we have brought and adopted in this House of the National Assembly several months ago. The Commission’s procurement guidelines, which have been defined by the Public Procurement Act, are accurate. As far as the President of the Commission's salary, members of that commission, are also defined by the Public Procurement Act, it is also known that the President of the Commission has the salary of the President of the Great Court and that the increase of 10% is also by law, depending on the number of judges, how much the High Court has, so neither is an increase of 10% against the law nor is the salary received by the President of the Public Procurement Commission against the law, but also in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on Judges. I felt that some questions had been asked by the previous speaker, so I would like to answer that for the sake of the truth and the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21820	National MP Miroslav Petkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21821	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad, Mr. Granny, that you've agreed to everything I've said, because I said I hope that's not the reason. It's clear to me that the Administrative Board determines the salary, no one mentioned it as an argument why it shouldn't be. But I ask the question – should the Law on Infringements comply with the Law on Public Procurement or the Law on Public Procurement be followed by the Law on Infringements? Does that mean the DRI can get this kind of authority tomorrow? In Slovenia, he can, because there is a court of law. There is no such thing in Serbia. Let's talk about what's in the law and what's supposed to be standing, not trying to fool the public with something here, that I wanted to say whether he was supposed to have a 10% salary or not. It's completely irrelevant. The same organ to initiate the procedure, to lead it, to make a decision, without the court, to deal with such important issues, we don't think it's a good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21822	MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21823	Now I'm going to say one sentence that I believe is an earlobe to you, Mr. Petkovic. The constitution is a roof law and all that is done is in accordance with the Constitution. There are no laws of first and second order. There is simply harmonisation of legislation, harmonisation of one with another law. I don't know why they'd align themselves with each other, and the other with the first or all of it? What you need to know is that we are the Public Procurement Act in December 2012. There was a chance that you would be critical of this law. Expectations, not only of the SNS, but of the expectations of both the international and domestic public in the effects of the law, are now shown by the application of the Public Procurement Act as of 1 April 2013. So, I really don't see any reason to challenge this amendment that Mr. Arsic and I have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21824	Mr. Palalic, are you answering for the amendment? (Yes) You have 30 seconds of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21825	I just want to point out to my colleague Babic where the problem is. The problem is that we have principledly supported the concept of forming misdemeanor courts and that any act for which a prison sentence can be prescribed, which is an international standard, is tried by courts. In this case, your amendment removes one offence from the criminal court and is led by an authority other than the court. That was our remark. So why is it that all other organs are abolished, and only this authority has the right to conduct a misdemeanour? The point is, why is it being removed from the criminal court, if we agreed that it was a good idea and that it was a good concept that law-abiding courts conduct criminal proceedings? That's our remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21826	Thank you. Members of the 103rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21827	Thank you, Chairman. Article 103 speaks of general local jurisdiction. The draft law stipulates that for the conduct of the first-degree infringement proceedings, the local jurisdiction of the court, where an offence has been committed or attempted, and if an offence has been committed or attempted in the area of several courts, then where the court has already initiated proceedings or where a criminal complaint has already been filed. Minister, we believe that the practice so far has shown that this is a bad solution, and therefore the LDP has tabled an amendment to Article 103 and to Section 1 and to the final position 4. We believe that for the better efficiency of the work of the misdemeanor courts it would be more celibate to be the local jurisdiction of the court, where the person who committed the offence has a residence, residence or where the seat of the legal person is. The fact is, that's what you said in the debate in principle, that there is a slowness of criminal courts. I think the basic dispute stems from the fact that courts are often not in a position to deliver to the offender a request for a hearing or the perpetrators of the offence refuse to come to court. That is why we believe that it is better for local jurisdiction to be a court in the place of residence or the whereabouts of the perpetrator of the offence. On the other hand, the practice has also shown that if an offence is committed elsewhere, then the criminal court from that place often sends a plea to a criminal court in the place of residence from where the perpetrator is from, to simply listen to the defendant. That is why we simply cannot understand the reasons why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. We believe that this would improve the efficiency of the work of the misdemeanor courts, if the local court were to be a court of residence, address or residence of the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21828	Members of the 104th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21829	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have defined that we define this general local jurisdiction in terms of residence, i.e. the residence of a natural person and the seat of a legal person. We thought it would raise the efficiency of the criminal court's work. We felt that it was much easier to judge the defendant's place of residence than to ask through the same hearing in the place where the offence was committed. The question is to what extent do we want to raise this efficiency of these courts? We think this is our solution is one way to help us reduce the number of pending cases, and you yourself said in the context of the bill's proposal that a huge number of pending cases is a very small percentage of the completed cases per individual mistrials. You need to think a little bit wider when it's moving into some kind of reform and this matter, and that's what we've seen in this way that this local jurisdiction is changing from the practice so far, which has shown that it really isn't effective enough. I will not report after the next amendment, since all these three amendments are connected and concern local jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21830	Members of the 105th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 122 by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 127th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 131st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21831	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it's about a little bit of explaining and technical improvement. It is, therefore, that when keeping a record of a criminal court, the question is literally brought into the record at the time of the trial, as well as the answer to that question. In this way we will achieve one credibility of that record and it will be much clearer what was happening at that trial. If you do not literally enter the question, which is often of great importance in terms of how the answer will follow, you do not see what was the question to which you have received a certain statement, you often cannot get the right picture of everything that has been said. I think this is one little thing that would significantly improve the whole trial, including just keeping the record, and that record is very important in the second-degree procedure when the second-degree court decides whether or not a complaint should be passed. Often these records are of great importance for making the right decision. Therefore, I see no reason why you did not adopt this amendment, because there is no political weight, but there is this weight to obtain a clear and concrete truth, and also to determine the facts that would actually allow for a proper, fair and legally based judicial decision to be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21832	The 131st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 138th amendment. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21833	I'll just take a minute. This is about one process thing. Our ambition was, since it was a misdemeanor procedure, that the deadlines in which courts decide are mostly short and that, in most cases, the request to return to the previous situation for the deadline for appeal is stated in situations where it is extremely justified, that we give here a simple opportunity to maintain the execution of that decision. Of course, the Ministry of Justice has given the reason that the court should leave the possibility of an assessment, but as in some other situations when we wanted to specify the matter for efficiency, to prevent damage in the event of enforcement, and to adopt this complaint, we think it might be good to consider this amendment. I'm saying it's a procedural amendment that can be discussed. Our solution was like this, and we just think we should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21834	Member of the 138th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 139 of the amendment, MP Olgica Batic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic submitted to the 141st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to Article 148 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21835	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Secretary, this member is talking about delivering to the address of the apartment. The article says that it is considered to be written if it is received by the person who committed the offence, a full - time person from his family household. It's for us in LDP okay. But indeed, Minister, the final point of view of this member is problematic, saying that if a person who has to be delivered in writing or a full-time member of his household is not found in his apartment, he will turn himself in in writing to the adult persons who find themselves in his apartment, if they agree to it, and thus is considered to have been delivered. We don't think that's how it can be considered to have been delivered, for several reasons. I'll give you an example, Minister. Imagine, Minister, the possibility of a criminal report being filed against you, and you, for example, went on an official trip 15 days abroad, asking someone to visit your apartment. Is it possible, for example, at that moment for that person to agree and accept a solution? It's completely possible. Did you lose your right to appeal within eight days because you didn't even see a solution? Yes, it is! It can happen to anyone, Minister, in this country. It's okay, "someone who's a member of the household, a full-time person," we really agree with that, but we can't agree "with any adult person who's accepted something like that". You know that a large number of people in this country live and work abroad. In their backyard they can always find their countrymen and those who come here from a temporary stay can commit some kind of violation, those faces won't even know they've been delivered, their deadlines for appeal and everything else provided for by the Law of Infringement will expire. On the other hand, the adult face is, of course, the one who is 18 years old. A school friend of a son or daughter can come into a household and, as such, if he stayed in the apartment alone, for example, went to another child to buy juice, could receive such a thing and go play football, so the parents of that child won't even know that they've got anything from the judge for the offense. We really believe that you should accept this amendment, regardless of the reasoning the Government gave as a reason for refusing such an amendment, because we really don't think it can be delivered to someone who is a minor and who is in his apartment at that moment, that there is neither this which has committed a violation nor any adult from his household.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21836	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment together. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21837	Mr. Chairman, just count me in on time from an authorised representative. With this amendment, we responded to the part about delivery at the workplace. In the bill of law, you provided that if delivery is carried out at a place where it is written to be served, and it is not found there at that time, then it is written to receive a person who is authorized to receive a written or any other person employed by the employer. We believe that this part: "or any other person employed by the employer" is not a good solution, because it can create a series of abuses during delivery. In an explanation for why you do not accept the amendment, you say it is not accepted for the reasons why the bill's solution allows for more effective delivery of letters in a misdemeanour procedure. I understand that the objective of a misdemeanor should be to act quickly and efficiently, but because of that, we cannot get into a situation where we are wronged about the interests of the parties in the process. Let's just imagine one situation. It's delivered to me in writing. My colleague Milos Aligrudic and I are not in good collegiate relations. He takes it in writing, hides it or won't just let me know that it happened. I, because I don't have any information that I've received from the court, have failed to perform a particular process shop, miss a deadline for appeal and come in a much more unfavourable way, in a procedural sense, position and position than I could have been, that I received in writing. I've put a very real situation here. So I ask you to accept this amendment, because it really only has the purpose of removing this illogicality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21838	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21839	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, we were still in the principle debate about what, in our opinion, were the root causes of the ageing of a large number of cases in a misdemeanor procedure. On the one hand, it was a major inflow of the case, of course, and the problem that the authorities who conducted the infringement procedure were, therefore, the way the authorities acted. We disagree with the view that the cause of this was the lack of interest of the parties. Delivery was one of the big problems, and we said it in the principle debate. This law significantly improves the delivery part. We mean to point out that because it's one way to prevent further avoidance by the mainly accused, who's interested in not taking it in writing, from getting old. In addition to the fact that, in situations where possible, it will be pointed out on the court's website and that the delivery will be done via electronic means and solutions relating to the delivery of the absent person, all of this is well done. This is the situation my colleague Milica Radovic spoke of, which points to the possibility that only delivery can produce the opposite effect, in terms of protecting the interests of the parties. It's quite enough for a person who's in a job, in an office, to be authorized to receive a letter, to whom he can be handed in writing to a person who's employed in a company, in an authority of the administration, anywhere. Spread it further to other faces, you know what? The delivery guy can go into any office and push it in writing and leave it. So this can lead to these problems and these situations, to miss certain actions, or to deliberately hide in writing. We would not want to cloud or damage to the good solutions made by this law by such a failure, with an explanation that this will give greater efficiency. It is not the essence of greater efficiency to deny or abuse rights or damages that can be done to foreigners in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21840	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21841	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, this is about personal delivery. It is very important how you define mandatory personal delivery and how you work out the types of personal delivery. In these Articles 158 and 159. The bill you already have a way to prevent any kind of abuse of the one who needs to receive a personal delivery. There is no need for you to introduce a whole new way by handing it over to a written adult who is in the defendant's apartment or at the workplace of that defendant. Simply, those solutions that you have provided with these two members greatly undermine the rights of persons entitled to personal delivery, and you will not achieve anything about abuse, because abuse will certainly continue. Moreover, the possibility of abuse is spreading if you leave these solutions in the bill. Think about what personal delivery means and what it means when you hand it over to anyone in writing. This proposal, in fact, predicts it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21842	The 166th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinovic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21843	Minister, I think that this member, as you have suggested, is the best proof of a conservative spirit, despite a solid legal solution, one conservative spirit implements through this law and through your policy at all. I think the time we are in requires much more modern solutions, much more courage and certainly respect for those standards of respect for human rights, which have been reached with us, and especially in Europe, which we so strive for. In Article 166 you tried to give the court the right to abolish the right to review the case file by the defendant, his defenders, the defendant of the accused legal person and other participants in the proceedings. It's not clear to me how someone can come to mind, how can someone think of restricting the defendant in the proceedings by any decision of the right to review the case files? You've partially corrected this by accepting the amendment of one opposition parliamentary group, but I don't think in enough ways. By accepting this amendment to Article 166 you have, however, made it possible for the defendant, the defendant, the representative of the defendant to see all the files of the case, that they cannot be banned, but remains to be prohibited, e.g. the defendant of the defendant's legal face. I can't understand why. Was there a failure when the amendment was submitted, or do I not know what your wish was and your motive to accept that amendment, not to accept an amendment that simply allows you to say – this law accepts the standards reached? He can't deny anyone who's in the process to go through the case files. Never, under any circumstances. Now we've come to the point that a law enforcement officer can't see, but his representative can, so I guess he can tell him what he saw there. What's the power of attorney to do if he can't look at the case files in certain cases? But that conservative spirit we saw, and when you spoke about regulations, that regulations of the government, decisions of the executive government, could prescribe violations and that citizens could be punished under the regulations. It's not a reached standard in the world. We're also talking about juvenile prison, and so far it's been so long that it stays and so far there have been regulations, so that the regulations remain. There's been a lot of things so far, but we're not here, and it's not our job to preserve the condition that exists, and we all agree that it's not the best thing, but that we're changing something and that we're promoting. I ask you to freely, openly approach this legislative process, regardless of what working groups, experts, practitioners mean, yes, simply, the spirit of the law that we are making is modern and in line with EU standards, which we are seeking.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21844	The amendment was submitted to Article 166 by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and the Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21845	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is indeed another example of a good amendment, but still, of course, extremely good behaviour and government and, of course, the Minister of Justice, who was accepted by my colleague Batic. In order to explain to the citizens who are watching this, it is an amendment which is explicitly given the right, during the conduct of the procedure, and to the defendant and his lawyer, as well as to the representative of the legal person, and we all know that, by applying the general rules, that means also the representative of that legal person, the right to exercise insight into the files. I want to take this opportunity and really praise the text of the law, in terms of protecting fundamental human rights and European standards. The law also provides for the use of language in a modern way, e.g. by members of national minorities, or by persons who do not generally speak Serbian. More and more often, let's say, we see that Chinese citizens commit certain violations, especially in the area of traffic, and it is good that we follow European traditions and European standards, to ensure that they all use their native language, or language that they understand. It is good that this law provides that everyone can defend himself, but that they can take the authorised representative, i.e. the lawyer or other defender, and it is good that Article 166, especially after these amendments and additions that have been adopted through the amendment of counterpart Batic, are provided that both the defendant and his lawyer and representative, or the representative, have the right at any time to carry out the examination of the files, of course, respecting the working time of the court and respecting some general rules of conduct in the court, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In one word, we believe that all basic human rights and all European standards are met by this law, and even more so after the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21846	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 169 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 170th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 171st amendment. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to a violation order. We understand the need to introduce a new Institute of Violent Order and we believe that it really has some positive sides. To a significant extent, it will relieve the criminal courts, reduce the number of criminal cases, all of which stands, but the reason why we have submitted the amendment refers to the purpose of punishment, because we believe that the purpose of punishment in the offences in which the infringement proceedings are initiated by an infringement order should not be exclusively a pooling of money into the budget, i.e. the payment of fines. I've talked a lot about it in principle. I specifically talked about this if, now, the new institute, we look at in the context of increasing the discretionary powers of the police, then I am concerned that the criminal order, which, I say, reminds us of the mandate, can in certain situations, beyond our will, represent a basic means of filling the budget, which is what we personally do not support in this context. We also talked about today's citizens facing a large number of violations and paying fines for violations whose determination depends exclusively on the discretionary will of a police officer. That's when I mentioned those famous registration stickers, and I mentioned one piece of information that if a police officer sees that this license plate, or registration sticker, is not properly sticked, can impose a fine of three thousand dinars, which is really not the slightest penalty for that right now, I'd say, a meaningless thing. Also, personal, discretionary authority depends on whether you will be charged with the penalty for assessing that you may be tired at a certain point and driving a car, because the range of punishments available to a policeman at that time, which can be given to you, is 15 to 30,000 dinars. Next, if you get involved in traffic past a cop's license, because that's how he figured it out, the punishment he can give you can go up to 30,000 dinars. The reason why we have responded here is the sole purpose of punishment and our disagreement with the fact that a misdemeanor order should represent a means to fill the budget. Of course, I believe that this way will increase the frequency of charges for violations, and that to a drastic extent, the moment the offence warrant works.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21848	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 172, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People, Olgica Batić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 175 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 176 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament, Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 180 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament, Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21849	Just for a little while on this amendment. He's really procedural. It refers to the possibility of making an appeal to the decision to initiate the infringement procedure. We felt that, since the whole intensities of the Precautions Act are to equate the parties to the procedure, that in the situation, regardless of what the legislator here, explaining the refusal of amendments, states that it is the procedural law of the court, to simply give the possibility to the party, in this case accused, to state the complaint of the decision to initiate the infringement procedure, because if we often call for analogies with criminal procedural legislation, with a solution to the initiation of the investigation, we do not see why here is not the possibility to make an appeal. So, if the applicant is entitled to a claim, the applicant of a criminal complaint to state the appeal in a situation where the court rejects a request, it is a procedural situation, we do not see a reason why even in the situation concerning the defendant himself, which is that the decision to initiate the infringement procedure is to have the right to make a statement of appeal. It is the way the court manages the procedure, but, as I said, analogy with some other legislation, in any case with criminal law, could be applied here, so if we want to put parties in the same position, if this is stressed for days, then this right, in our opinion, is purely procedural, should be allowed and blamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21850	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21851	I admit that I don't understand what the government and the Ministry have against, when a police officer brings in a person, he should respect the dignity of a person who brings in, and if that person is a minor, he is obliged to treat him with special attention. I don't know if it's disputed that it's good for anyone to say in the law that in bringing in a misdemeanor procedure, a police officer is obliged to respect the dignity of the person he brings in, and if that person is a minor, he is obliged to treat him with special attention? You refused the amendment only to refuse it, and the explanation is - The government does not accept the amendment because it is the opinion that police officers are being governed by the Police Act, and therefore is not subject to the regulation of the Law of Infringements. Please, we have a law that speaks of a misdemeanor procedure and when a police officer brings you in, so I guess it's time for him to respect your dignity? Come on, everybody, think about this. I think it is in the interest of all citizens that the police with all due respect and respect for the dignity of all citizens behave in the work they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21852	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21853	I think this amendment is good, and I really don't understand the reasons why the government has rejected this amendment. I can't say in general that all cops do that, but the fact is that many don't respect the dignity of that person whose bringing in is meant to provide, especially when it comes to minors. The government's provision and justification that it's defined by the Police Act can't really stand, because the Police Act can say one thing, and here is the Law of Infractions. We believe it is a good amendment to the DS, that in the Law on Violences, the police officers will be obliged to respect the dignity of the people they bring in, especially if it is a minor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21854	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21855	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we do not dispute that the amendment that we are now talking about is very well written and very correct. Of course, police should always take care of how they treat all Serbian citizens, especially minors. However, we support the fact that the minister, i.e. that the government has rejected this amendment for the following reason: this substance is regulated by the Police Act and it is very clearly defined how the police must behave, which are infringing and which are disciplinary and any other sanctions for police officers who, of course, are very few, are doing their job. Recently, this assembly also adopted a resolution on legislative policy. Before that, we worked with our partners from abroad for many years on unique methodological rules. Just one of the agreements we tried to make, one of the practices we tried to introduce into the Assembly is not to burden the text of the law. Technically, one such logical provision -- of course, but if it were brought into the Law of Infractions, then practically any other law that regulates matter as police treat minors, older people, animals, plants, etc. I'm a bit of a cartoonist, we're joking, but there's generally no need to burden the text of the law. We have agreed ourselves here through the unique methodological rules and through the resolution on legislative policy, but there is no dispute that this amendment of the DS remains as one message to the minority of the police, but also to all. You have to act culturally, you have to act professionally, especially towards minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21856	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21857	Thank you. I don't care if the MP caricates or jokes when it comes to the exercise of children's rights, when it comes to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, when it comes to our positive legislation, which treats minors, but I do care if the Government, or the Resort Ministry, through the Bill of Infringement, shows all the time a lack of understanding of the complexity of minors' problems in the offence and treats through here the proposed solutions of minors in the criminal proceedings worse than when it comes to minors who violate criminal law, or worse treatment them than is regulated by the Law on juvenile offenders. It really remains inexplicable why in this draft law on violations we have no understanding of the complexity of this matter, of the standards achieved. On the contrary, I understand we're not promoting them, we're not that modern, we're not following what's going on in the world, but why are we going back a few steps? In negotiations with the EU, which everyone expects to start with spring, the first chapter is just the rule of law. We will have this law here in parliament in the spring, because these solutions that treat minors in violation are simply unsustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21858	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21859	I signed up for the replica of my previous colleague. He can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21860	You have no right to a replica. You can only waste the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21861	Can you explain to me why I don't have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21862	I don't know how you think you do when he didn't mention you directly?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21863	He misread me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21864	You can spend the time of the parliamentary group, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21865	I can spend my time with the MPs' group, but you're in violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I'll explain to you from the time of the MPs' group that they're covering the Rules of Procedure. Someone doesn't have to mention you, it's enough to misread you. I spoke before my colleagues Cvian, and he responded to what I said and misread what I said. Therefore, it would be good for you to listen to what the MPs say if you are already holding a session. The law on police - I think it's just an excuse, buddy. It's supposed to be regulated by the Police Act, it's regulated there, and it shouldn't be regulated here, because it's going to burden the text of the law, so it's going to be too much text. It is one sentence, which is that police officers are obliged to respect the dignity of the citizens they bring in, and if it is the minors to treat them with special attention. What's so hard to accept? Why can't it be accepted to stand in law? What's behind this? I think it makes sense to have something like that. I think it's logical to enter something like that into the Criminal Code, or the CAP, if there are no provisions. Don't be so conservative, so hard and so rigid and refuse something because it was proposed by the opposition MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21866	Mr. Konstantinovic, I'd just like to look back on this remark of yours. Mr. Cvian explained your amendment. It's that you're the amendment promoter, but you can't replicate now. The word is made by MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21867	I would only ask you to take care of the provisions that speak of your work in parliament. So you didn't give a line to the MP who asked for it. The man used his time in the discussion, and you could have interrupted it if he didn't talk about the subject, but you have no right to engage now and argue with the MP what he was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21868	It's your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudic. I don't mean like you. No problem, we'll ask in voting day to come forward. You just didn't tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured? You have to tell me. Article 27. Thank you, Mr. Aligrudich. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21869	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are, just to clarify one more time. I will repeat once again that the amendment proposed by my colleague Konstantinovic is, in fact, very well written, very correct, very quality, but that a few weeks ago we literally adopted here on a proposal of 25 MPs, which are members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and come from different parties, we adopted an almost unanimous resolution on legislative policy. The same resolution is based on previously written uniform methodological rules for law making. So it's time to finally agree on a nomotechnical category; and that's that there's no need for some general norms from the most general law to be repeated later on in any subsequent law. So it's not that big a burden of text in one case, one amendment, one attitude, but the problem is that we would have to repeat it over and over again, and we would have come up with the texts of the law that, don't let anyone get me wrong -- and I was involved in writing unique methodological rules, would have a little reminder of those American laws, where you always have 10 sides of the introduction, something similar even the EU has accepted. So, they're good amendments, but let's all agree together to respect the unique methodological rules, to respect the resolution on legislative policy, not to repeat through the laws of the same provision that, if you ask me, they mean. Well, of course the police and every cop know that everyone should be treated culturally, especially for minors, with special regard, it's already in the Police Act. I think a principle like this, from now on, would significantly facilitate the text of the law and make it significantly easier for non-legislators to read the law because they feel too complicated anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21870	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21871	We submitted this amendment because we felt that the powers of authorised police officers were broadly laid down when it came to bringing in the suspect without a decision and without a court order. Paragraph 4 here states that an authorised police officer and without orders from the court, the suspect will be able to bring in, if there is a danger that he will proceed directly with the offence. First, the question arises – how can a police officer establish it? This has always been a question to which the court has pleaded exclusively. We don't think it's a good idea to give such wide-ranging powers to the police, that she's interpreting whether someone will continue to commit or not, and that person, without a court order, will bring her in. We think that this is a typical example of what we were talking about when we submitted the amendment where we said that a court of official duty should carry out evidence, is a typical example of the inequality of parties in the process. This wide-ranging powers of police officers can lead to various abuses because all of us who have met with the Criminal Court at least once know that the word of a police officer in a misdemeanor is always stronger than the word of the defendant. Let's just imagine the possibility of how abused this solution will be by the representatives of the MUP or the police, or how abused it might be, to be even more precise. I think it's necessary for you to consider this amendment and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21872	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 190th Amendment together include mid-term MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21873	On behalf of the authorising officer, I would like to accept this amendment and commend it. He's extremely good and useful and he has a place in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21874	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21875	I thank the Minister for accepting this amendment. I want for the sake of the public and for the citizens to say that the amendment went in the direction that I cannot have authorized police officers to retain minors. This is also very important in the course of the entire juvenile procedure. We have also left this possibility in the Criminal Law, which is to erase the possibility that the police may retain minors. The detention order can only be issued by the court, according to the new D.A.'s office, when it is conducting an investigation in some part, but the police cannot. That's why he shouldn't even be able to commit a misdemeanor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21876	Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 191st Amendment together include mid-term MPs Srdjan Mikovic, Teodora Vlahovic and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 192, the amendment was submitted to Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 193 of the amendment together are the post-national MPs Gordana Komic and Teodora Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 193rd amendment together include mid-national MPs Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Olgica Batic, a member of the 200th amendment, is on the table. Does anyone want a word? (No) Olgica Batic, a member of the 209th amendment, is on the table. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Nada Kolundžija together have submitted an amendment proposing a change of title over Article 212. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21877	Since the chairman reads very quickly, I failed to report on the amendment to Article 193. I don't get it, if you took that one, why not this one? They're exactly the same. It's the same thing. The amendments to Article 190 and 193 are practically identical. In Article 193, we propose exclusively from Article 1 of this article, the detention measure can only be given to a minor by order of the court. It doesn't make any difference. If we've accepted that in Article 190, I think we should accept the amendment to Article 193 if you don't think so, please explain it to us. I'm in doubt now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21878	Thank you. The word again has the MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21879	There's no difference. In article 190, we said that authorized police officers can't hold anyone without a court order. In Article 193, we ask that exclusively from Section 1, and attitude 1. says that the person under the influence of alcohol and other psychoactive substances found in the conduct of the offence may be detained by a police officer if there is a danger that he will continue to commit crimes, but cannot retain a minor. That's the point, he can't keep a minor. He can be brought to court and court to determine detention. He can't keep a minor. The point is, the police can't put a minor on 12 or 24 hours and lock him up at a police station. He has to inform his parents immediately, bring him to court, and the court will determine that measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21880	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment to the title above Article 212? (No) The amendment was submitted to article 214 by the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted the 216th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21881	Thank you. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 216 speaks of the amount of punishment unless the witness has come and has been properly called and has not justified his absence or refused to testify. The bill provides fines of between 10,000 dinars and 50,000 dinars. Our proposal by amendment is to make these fines between 3,000 and 10,000 dinars. In addition, we have proposed this same amendment to delete Section 2. We really believe that these great penalties for refusing to testify are an example of the arrogance of the government, and this is evident from this position 2. Your argument, Minister, i.e. The Government’s argument that this amendment has been rejected is that the Government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the amount of fines submitted for the failure of witnesses, i.e. for refusing to testify contained in the Bill’s proposal, is appropriate for the effective conduct of the infringement procedure, as well as respect for the procedural discipline and the court, given that the testimony is a legal obligation. If such an opinion is made by the Government, why in this same Article 216 paragraph 2 is it – if the official of the authorised authority who has applied for an infringement does not respond to the court's call to be heard in the capacity of the witness and does not justify his absence, the court may give up its hearing? On the one hand, if the citizen is a witness, then you will punish him with 10 to 50,000 dinars, and if the witness should be the official person of the authorized authority who filed a violation request, it will not pay the penalty under Article 2, but the court will only say – I do not have to listen to him. Why are officials privileged to witness? We really don't think that's right. Or will the punishment be paid both by the citizens and by the official person who is neatly called in, here writes well, by witnesses, and not just by citizens? That's exactly what we're seeing and we think the government is showing arrogance. On the one hand, you will punish the witnesses, unless they respond, and are properly invited or forgotten to justify their presence at the criminal court, with 10 to 50,000 dinars, and you will not do anything with what the court will say – I do not have to listen to him. We disagree. We believe the government should have accepted our amendment. We call on the parliamentary groups to accept the LDP amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21882	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21883	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, after these dragonous heights of criminal penalties, we have reached the punishments provided for witnesses. It is obvious that there is the intention of the legislator to serve and to serve with repression. We have already observed this and said so many times during today's debate. Interestingly, how kind you are, in fact, to civil servants, or officials, as opposed to individuals who have been called to testify. You are prepared to press charges and punish a witness who has not arrived, or refused to testify for no legal reason, but you are not prepared to punish an official person. That's very interesting, and it's not an honor. The next thing that's very important is, in addition to you saying that you want to have an effective criminal court, you want to have an effective infringement procedure, etc., you're using some methods that are not suited to a modern state, because such heights of punishment are not suited to a modernism. It is also interesting that if you are to treat a bully in the sense that you will prevent him from committing a certain offence, you are also missing the opportunity to change your attitude, as in that article 61, which we have also submitted to the amendment, you are predicting a safeguard measure of up to one year. So, a bully can't access a damaged facility or a crime scene for up to a year. Every day we witness these great problems that women who have been abused face. You're simply losing sight of the fact that you need to protect yourself and by extending these safeguards a little bit, as far as their duration is concerned. This is a good example for you, this particular member. On the one hand, you continue to endure with those levels of fines, but you're not ready to change anything in terms of prevention. However, the Law of Infractions should have some quality. Prevention, among other things, means that you make it impossible for a bully to give him a protective measure to get close to the damaged, first of all, or most often damaged, because they are mostly women who are exposed to certain abuses. You remained consistent throughout today's debate, as far as legal solutions are concerned. We think this way you've greatly compromised this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21884	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21885	I only want one explanation to give my vision in accordance with the family law, which refers to the protection of the victim from the bullyes. In fact, the family law accurately provides for the protection of the restraining order of victims to last for up to a year, but it can be extended if there are reasonable reasons for this, and justifiable reasons are known in which situations exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21886	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21887	I'm a little confused. I'm reporting after the amendment to Article 216. This is about not giving up the official person, etc. It's an LDP amendment. I will vote in favour of this amendment, in view of paragraph 2 - if the official of the authorised authority who has applied for an infringement does not respond to the court's call to be heard in the capacity of the witness and does not justify its absence, the court may waive its hearing. He's not just a witness, he's a applicant. Item 3 states – the provision for bringing the accused, Article 187 accordingly applies to bringing witnesses. Item 2 is contradictory to me. Is he an applicant or a witness? If he's a witness, then he can be taken in the same way as me. Knowing the state of our police, it may be a little bit better in Belgrade, knowing the state of police within the interior, I will certainly support this amendment, regardless of what comes from the ranks of opposition MPs. I kind of don't like this about fines, but since there's no other amendment that contains an amendment to Article 2 that's unacceptable to me because the applicant doesn't have to come to the hearing as a witness, the court can give up his hearing, bring a verdict of confrontation, as I understand it. So, he can be called as a witness, he can be confronted with some of my witnesses and I as a witness can be detained, but whoever filed the application cannot be heard, or he does not have to be heard as a witness, and he does not, although he does refer to witnesses who may be random passersby. So, if I've seen anything, someone's got me as a witness, even if I haven't seen it. I've had such a practice, but in basic courts. So someone can bring me in because someone said that I saw something and that I could testify, but that applicant is reporting it. An authorized person, in most cases a policeman, he doesn't have to come and the court can take it, give up his hearing and make a decision. No matter what the amendment to the opposition MPs is, I will support it, since I know the state of our police and I know the abuses that police officers can commit, especially to certain persons who are not in any way likable to them, or have not done them any favors that they expected to be able to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21888	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 224 of the amendment by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment to be an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 226th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21889	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is that we wanted to clarify things a little bit about when apartments, other rooms, as well as faces, can be searched and that it is clearly and specifically defined in the law. For us, it is not enough that there is a likelihood that in the apartment, other rooms, things or individuals will be found an object or clues that could be significant for the infringement procedure, etc., as it says in this article of the law. We need to have reasonable doubt. So that probability, that freedom given to officials, is really too great for the state's authority, in terms of limiting human rights and freedoms. We'd have to take care of that, because it doesn't matter if you decide on such a drastic procedure as a state body, or after a reasonable doubt, to make it as a decision. I think the drastic differences between these two options are. The probabilities and established suspicions have different weights and notional and constitutional, if you will be right. Yet the constitutional category is human rights and human freedom. It is really not recommended to restrict these freedoms in such a law. You should really think about the solution that we of the LDP have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21890	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic, Nenad Constantinović, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Nada Kulundzija submitted to the 228th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment to be an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija jointly submitted to the 231st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 234th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, Nenad Konstantinović, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Nada Kolundžija jointly submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 236 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21891	I'll get back to you on this amendment. I did not answer for others because I believe it is justified that, in the proposal's statement through facts, it explains why the amendments were not accepted, so I will ultimately accept these reasons, as such, in relation to this amendment, especially in Article 56, on the basis of which they will finally be particularly stated. I want to make a statement against this amendment. I just want Article 236 to be precise. Why? Because this article introduces the Institute of Criminal Rights. That institute is a plea agreement. It is great that the promoter recognized the need to find this institute - a plea agreement, which will greatly contribute to making a misdemeanor procedure as effective as possible, to make it as quickly and ultimately as possible to solve a huge number of cases in criminal proceedings as quickly as possible. However, the draft law, namely the text of this Article 236, did not transpose what is the factual basis of the plea agreement, as defined by the Criminal Code, but rather related to the severity of the penalty, the criminal sanctions, and not to the law of the offence. Therefore, I felt that this text, which I will read again, would be far more meaningful and far more acceptable than the proposal, where it stands – when one or more of the conditions laid down in this article is not met, or where the penalty, or the other criminal penalty, laid down in the agreement on recognition concluded between the authorised applicant and the defendant in the presence of the defenders, is not in accordance with the law which imposes such punishment, the court will reach a solution that rejects the recognition agreement. The recognition of the defendant given in an agreement which has not been accepted by the court cannot be evidenced in a misdemeanour procedure. In this way, I believe that the Institute of Guilting Agreements is affirmed, does not lose its meaning and thus puts the defendant in a far more favourable criminal and legal position than he would have been in relation to the text of the law given in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21892	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 236th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 248th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Olgica Batic, a national MP, submitted to Article 275 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Konstantinovic, Slobodan Homen, Srdjan Mikovic and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21893	We talked during today’s debate and debate in principle about how important it is to treat minors. On several occasions, I said that there should be judges, or special departments in court for misdemeanors that judge minors. We have them in our criminal law. You reject the amendment that we propose to treat a minor infringing proceedings as judges for violations that have acquired special knowledge in the area of child rights and so on. On the board, you said it was seven months, as it is, until the law was applied and there was plenty of time to do something like that. If there is enough time for judges to be trained in juvenile procedures in seven months, why do you mind having such a provision in law? The explanation you gave is that we haven't worked out enough about what specific knowledge in the field of child rights and juvenile crime is about, and not how to acquire these special knowledge. It's the same way they get in a criminal case. Now look at what the law says there, you wrote those laws, and I guess you know, so how do these judges get here, so they get judges for violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21894	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21895	Thank you. I just want to add that the government's very controversial argument is why the Ministry refuses this amendment. So, a colleague quoted her as saying. You say in your explanation that the amendment does not discuss what specific knowledge in the area of the rights of the child and the criminality of minors is about, or how these knowledge comes about. I want to repeat that in Article 43 of the Law on juvenile offenders of criminal offences and the criminal protection of minors, the same formulation stands. Therefore, Article 43 states that judges for minors as well as those who make a judicial council are about to acquire special knowledge from the area of child rights. It turns out only the ministry doesn't know what special knowledge is in the area of child rights. Gentlemen, there are accredited programs, they thank God, they already apply to the judiciary, so for judges who treat minors, for members of these councils, there is nothing you know about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21896	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21897	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, of course, we support the amendment of counterpart Konstantinovic. We really don't understand why you haven't adopted this amendment. This whole argument, so I don't get it. You say – the amendment does not discuss what specific knowledge is given in the area of the rights of the child and the criminality of minors. It's enough, Mr. Minister, for the training of judges to read the biographies of candidates who applied to the ad for the 15 judges, and it's going to be 16 and 90 percent of those biographies that they've acquired certain knowledge about the trial in these disputes against minors. Therefore, this argument really does not hold water, and if the explanation is not valid, that means that the amendment must be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21898	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21899	Mr Minister, in my best interest, I think that the amendment is involved and it is in some way in a great contradiction with the accepted amendment, which gives the Commission the right to public procurement procedures judicial powers, regardless of which we all know that there will probably not be a lot of lawyers in that commission, or people with the necessary knowledge, in order to carry out judicial affairs and judicial duties, even if it is also a violation and it is not necessary to disregard a criminal court that is not so important in the judicial system of power. The focus is everywhere in the world, and it is also in our judicial system that there are specialized judges, specialized larger, specialized departments. Due to the specificity of the proceedings against minors and in criminal proceedings, we believe that it is appropriate to accept such a solution because it is in contradiction with the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and if you are already making an exception, but in our opinion it seems unnecessary and less involved, then this solution should be accepted because I believe that it will be primarily in the interests of minors, in the interests of the court and in the interest of carrying out a specific and sensitive procedure against minor offenders.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21900	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21901	I understand, absolutely, the applicant of the amendment and the intention expressed through the submission of such an amendment. You just beat me to it, so I'm going to say something now because of all those who took part in this discussion. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, after the adoption of this bill, plans, if adopted, to continue the work of a working group that, in addition to the amendments and additions of members to the working group, and one of the tasks, which will be the task of the working group, is to amend and supplement the Law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors. Since this law provides in detail what the decision must contain, it is not sufficient for one declarative provision that, in those cases, when the offender is a minor, the offenders who are specially trained to do so will act. It is in the plan to amend and supplement this law, to provide for these amendments and additions in detail what that decision must contain and that is something I was talking about at the committee meeting when I answered why this amendment is not accepted. So it's purely legal technical reasons. It was quite far away that someone in this law wanted to predict some more restrictive and worse treatment for minors as offenders. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on juvenile offenders and the criminal protection of minors will be foreseen. That's the key reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21902	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? On Article 305 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Aligrudic. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21903	We don't see any reason to go further in our legal system when it comes to violations there is an execution of the sentence before the lawfulness of the decision. All the reasons which are stated and which exist in the applicable law, and you have even expanded them in the Bill's proposal, fall under the key fact that criminal law should not be an exercise before the law of the decision. The reason why the execution of the sentence will be prevented shall not be the basic reason for the punishment to be carried out before the decision is brought before the lawfulness of the decision. Even if some of these reasons can be respected in principle, e.g. The hooligans at football games outside the stadium, foreign groups that come into our country, and they're wild all over the city, so we pick them up, there are and there have to be other mechanisms for these cases, in principle, lex specialis, not to give general provisions on the execution of penalties before justice. So, before you expand these possibilities here, you say - it can also be in serious violations that threaten people's life or health if they require the interest of general security or security, goods and financial traffic or moral reasons, etc. Don't do that. That's too much. What does the severity of the offense have to do with whether the punishment will be carried out before or after the justice of the solution? It's an alphabet of criminal law and we shouldn't fall here in the future. There are other mechanisms. You have police detention, according to the court's decision. You can make special standards on long-term detention, which is similar to detention during the investigation or during the conduct of the procedure to enter into the law. You can't execute pre-judiciality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-24-0.u21904	Anyone else want a word? The amendment was submitted to Article 329 by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 339. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 340. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 341. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 342. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 343. Does anyone want a word? Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I'd like to conclude a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint July 25th 2013 starting at 11.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
