ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 150 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 185 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Radoslav Komlenović and Emir Elfic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely, for Saturday, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider and adopt the motion for a resolution as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have invited you to attend this session, in addition to the representatives of the motions – president and all members of the Government: Tomislav Nikolic, President of the Republic, Veljko Odalović, Secretary-General of the Government, Vanja Vukić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior, Gordana Stamenić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration, Aleksandar Vulin, Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Dejan Pavićićić, Director of the Office for Professional and Operational Affairs in the Negotiation Process, Snezana Jankovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Aleksandra Kovac, first adviser in the cabinet of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for the maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session in 2013, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2013 the next Dn e n i r e d 1. A motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on basic principles for political talks with the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. We're going to work on the agenda. I am opening the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Resolution of the National Republic of Serbia's National Assembly on Fundamental Principles for Political Talks with the Interim Institutions of Self-Government on Kosovo and Metohija. You received the motion for a resolution submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. Before the search opens, I remind you that it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 190(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a unique search into the motion for a resolution. Do any of the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mr. Stefanovic, are you answering the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10294	Dear President, I believe that the seriousness of this topic and the gravity of the overall situation in some way requires a duplication of time for discussion. So that's what we as DS suggest. Please, in that sense, let us be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10295	I put it to the vote, given that we have received a proposal from Parliamentarian Borislav Stefanovic to double on the basis of Article 97, paragraph 3, I suggest that we move immediately to the vote. I'm putting this motion to the vote and I'm asking the National Assembly to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for -69, against -one, with abstention - there is no vote, there is no vote - 137 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic came forward. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10296	Mr. President, Mr. President of the Republic, representatives of the Government, you have sent us an incomplete motion for a resolution. Namely, I call on the violation of Rule 151 of Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure and ask you to perform the technical correction of the document you have sent us. Namely, in Section 4. The motion for a resolution, please do not count on me at a time when I will quote – confirming the views of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija since 21 November 2005; Resolution of the Assembly on a proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status, the UN Secretary-General Ahtisaari's special envoy and the continuation of negotiations on the future status of Kosovo since 14 February 2007; Resolution of the National Assembly on the need for a fair settlement of the issue of the province of Kosovo and Metohija based on international law of 25 July 2007; Resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia since 26 December 2007 and Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the confirmation of the decision of the Republic of Serbia's Government of Serbia's decision on the annulment of the Kosovo's self-progregation of Kosovo's February 2008 on the single body of Kosovo. You counted all the resolutions of this Assembly except for the last of 2011. The last one is binding. If you feel that such a thing is not binding on the congregation, then you need to make it public. I'll tell you why we insist on it. You can also be worthy of defeat. I appreciate the majority that applauded the President of the Republic. We spoke to the President with dignity two weeks ago, with all the political differences that exist between us, but this day for the LDP parliamentary group and for the citizens of Serbia has value, not in another lie, to make fun of the entire society, but in a willingness to tell the truth and be worthy. It's not dignified... (President): Please time. Don’t count me what I quote. (President: This was according to the former Rules of Procedure, in the last Rules of Procedure two minutes apply to everything you say in the course of the replica. Well, then we keep lying to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10297	Mr. Jovanovic, I ask you not to use such words during the debate as it humiliates the dignity of the National Assembly. Do any of the representatives of the motionor want a word? The President of the Government has the word. We are launching a single search on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10298	Dear President of the National Assembly, the Honorable President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by saying what Mr Jovanovic was talking about. The government is ready to accept a correction of that position, in the sense that this applies to all resolutions and declarations brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija, including the UN General Assembly resolution on dialogue with Pristina. So, right at the start to remove all this stuff that you were talking about, that wouldn't be a question. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are not meeting for the first time with Kosovo and Metohija. As always, Serbian citizens expect a responsible relationship with this issue, they expect a responsible attitude towards this issue, without inter-party competitions, and if possible without competition in accusations of who is more responsible for the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, because such a debate could lead us far into the past. As you all know, last year we marked a 100-year release of Kosovo and Metohija from the Turkish occupation. Today, 100 years later, we have a very difficult situation in Kosovo and Metohija where our vital, national and state interest, our territorial integrity and sovereignty are at stake. Kosovo and Metohija are not an easy and simple topic, as Skerlic also spoke in time – every stone in Kosovo and Metohija is a historical memory for the Serbian people. Whether Kosovo and Metohija were part of Serbia and at the time of the Turkish occupation, the Serbian people's attitude towards Kosovo did not change. Kosovo is one big thought for the Serbian people, no matter who currently has sovereignty in that territory. That's why this topic is a Serbian archbishop. A theme that is related to Serbian roots, to Serbian villages, but unfortunately also to Serbian divisions. In Kosovo and Metohija, it is an extremely difficult situation and I absolutely agree with what has been said that the purpose of today's session is not only to discuss a few pages of the text of the resolution, but rather whether we are able to realistically see the situation in which we are in Kosovo and Metohija, the external-political position of Serbia and the possibility of a fair solution to this problem. Such an approach will depend on whether we will lead a realistic and sustainable and realistic policy on Kosovo and Metohija, or today we will bring just one more resolution that will later join others in the preambles of a future resolution at another meeting. As we discuss resolutions and declarations, Kosovo and Metohija have been going on for many years, since 1999, the process of strengthening independence. Constant pressure is being put on Serbs, no return of displaced refugees, no progress in solving missing persons' problems, frequent attacks, not only terrorist acts, but also attacks that threaten the security of Kosovo and Metohija citizens, especially those not Albanian nationalities. Serbia's sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, almost does not exist. Serbian institutions are being driven from Kosovo and Metohija, and Serbs have not created their own autonomous institutions. In addition to Resolution 1244, an independent Kosovo, contrary to international law, has been built for 13 years against the constitution of the Republic of Serbia. During that time, Serbia brings resolutions and declarations, changes the constitution, but Kosovo and Metohija are increasingly going into independence. So, as I said, today's session isn't just about explaining a new resolution, we need to take a critical, realistic look at the situation. Our people need a policy with results and responsibility for this policy, not a policy of honorable defeats, battles that can only bring defeat and collective sacrifice to the people. We need results, only individuals can be sacrificed honorably, and people must not be sacrificed. Sacrificing the entire Serbian people, unfortunately we've had enough in our history. The question is how many of these have had positive consequences. If we look at today, and not only today, it was clear a few years after the Balkan wars, that we had not achieved results that were proportional to the difficulties and contributions of the Serbian people, the struggle to free from the Ottoman Empire. Also, I would remind you that in 1908, Austria made an annex to Bosnia and Herzegovina, contrary to the Berlin Treaty, that Serbs and Muslims were against it, that everyone pressured Serbia, that there was a Customs War against Serbia, that Serbia had to accept in March 1909, under the government of Stojan Novakovic, an annex to BiH. This did not mean that Serbia gave up its fair interests, related to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which proved to be the creation of the Kingdom of SHS in 1918. Today, in front of parliament, we should not seek support for the text of the resolution alone, we should seek support for a policy that will end the drowsiness and delusion we have, that it is enough to hide behind resolutions and the Constitution and that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija will be resolved. If we keep our heads in the sand, we'll have nothing more to negotiate. We need to look into Serbia's eyes and tell the truth about the possibilities. We can't go back to the way we were. Here's just a question, shall we go ahead? I would be most fortunate if Serbia could put the situation back in its previous state and we could talk about what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the situation at this point is very little possible. Can we win after many defeats? We can no longer talk about Kosovo and Metohija at the level of myth and fairy tales, but about the difficult facts. We cannot have our president in Kosovo and Metohija celebrating Christmas, there is a single Serbian student in Prizren. Prizren was the Serbian capital. In Pristina, Djakovica and Uroševec, I don't think there are any. We can no longer protect our sanctity in Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo is run by the commanders of the terrorist units we fought with. They're receiving them today both in Washington and Brussels. We're negotiating with them today. That's the reality we live in. We can talk about how we don't like this reality and we don't like it, but can we and how can we contribute to changing this reality? It is true that we do not recognise the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, but someone else has the greatest part of Kosovo and with it we need to find a solution, that this solution pleases both Serbs and Albanians, that this solution is just, because only a just solution can be permanent, that this solution can achieve and contribute peace and stability in the region, that it brings respect and respect to Serbia in the world and economic development for our citizens, that we do not unite the most powerful against ourselves. The world is unfair to Serbia. But we're small enough to change it. So let's focus on how to create good and solid grounds to save something, to unite the people in the fight for the goals that we can achieve. There's no hiding behind big words on that road. It will be difficult, but we owe it to both ancestors and descendants, but we owe it to those who gave their lives to Kosovo and Metohija, but we also owe it to those who have stayed to live in Kosovo and Metohija, no matter what they risk their lives. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia are not only proposing the text of the resolution and the platform, but they want us to find a solution. If we look at the texts of all resolutions and declarations adopted by the National Assembly, we can see one constant that is repeated almost in all texts. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has established principles for the resolution of Kosovo and Metohija, political means and dialogue as the only way for a peaceful and democratic solution to the crisis, full respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, full equality between all citizens, national communities and ethnic groups in Kosovo and Metohija, without the possibility of any majorisation, solutions consistent with the Constitution and international standards in the area of human and civil rights and the rights of national minorities. Kosovo and Metohija cannot obtain independent status or republic status, but autonomy according to the highest international standards within Serbia and Yugoslavia. We do not accept any measure that would alter territorial integrity and sovereignty and try to separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. Is this the text you'd all like to sign today? The text was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999 before Serbia was bombed. That's why I think it would be wrong for us to now accuse each other of something that's been going on, who's more or less guilty. The situation in Kosovo and Metohija is not blamed by any government of the Republic of Serbia or by the president of Serbia. It is Albanian separatistism and the desire for Albanians to get their independent state. Albanians simply did not want to live in Serbia anymore. All Albanians feel the same way, but do all Serbs feel the same way? Do all political parties in Serbia feel the same way? I'm not sure. So let's find a common denominator about something that can pull us forward. Of course there are all the other resolutions, and here they are all here with me, all the resolutions that have been since 1999, we forget a lot of history, like every day we draw water from the river of oblivion. An additional disturbance has brought customs checkpoints to the administration line between Kosovo and Metohija and central Serbia. This is another act that the UNMIK administration in Kosovo violates Resolution 1244. Citizens are self-organizing in an attempt to disable the operation of illegal customs checkpoints. This resolution was brought by the National Assembly on 4 May 2001. We can even quote resolutions when independence is declared. We said we'd fight it with all the means. We have repeatedly pointed out that the state must apply all measures to defend our territorial integrity and sovereignty. Where are we? We have come to this situation that Serbia is very little to ask today about many life issues in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the government of the Republic of Serbia believes that today we need state-run pragmatism and diplomatic political skills to work in the interest of the entire Serbian people, in the interest of Serbia, in the interest of Serbian citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the President of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a platform for a political platform for talks with representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, given that the UN General Assembly Resolution, proposed only by Serbia, together with 27 other EU member states, is defined as saying that the UN General Assembly welcomes the EU's readiness to facilitate the process of dialogue between the sides. The dialogue process would itself be a factor of peace, security and stability in the region. This dialogue would aim to improve co-operation, make progress on the road to the EU and improve people's lives. Of course, in addition to one Ducession, this change in the text of the resolution was adopted at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia by telephone. When it comes to the current platform and resolution, in conditions where Serbia does not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, when Albanians believe that the issue of independence is resolved, in conditions where the world's most powerful countries are in the position, in conditions where our friends in the international community can only influence decisions in the UN, we are forced to propose solutions that, without a solution to the final status, mean without recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, regulates the functioning of Kosovo and Metohija as a territory defined and according to Resolution 1244. In that sense, both the resolution and the platform adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that there are no dilemmas, the procedure under which the documents are adopted in the Government of the Republic is such that any platform for any talks is considered under the designation of confidentiality. It's nothing new. That's how it was in the previous government. I'm going to visit Ireland next week. The platform for these conversations is under confidentiality. But there's nothing to hide. The largest part of the platform is contained in the reasoning of the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the text and there are no different texts that are public and which are some state secret. What's the proposal based on? The proposal is primarily focused on the fact that representatives of the Republic of Serbia who participate in the talks will, in particular, insist on the formation, establishment of an autonomous community of Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, and that sources of competence and elements of the internal organisation will be issues that will be brought into line through political dialogue. Of course, the Republic of Serbia has its opinion on what competence this autonomy should have - from education, health, sports and culture, to home affairs, i.e. justice, mining, energy, etc. On the other hand, it is proposed to establish a special status for rural enclaves in which Serbs and other non-Albanians make up the majority population. Such competencies would, of course, be below the level of competence of the Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. We will insist on a special contractual relationship between the Serbian Orthodox Church and the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. Also, we will insist that a lasting guarantee be provided for the return of persons displaced from Kosovo and Metohija. We feel it is also necessary to adopt a return law at the level of the province. Of course, we need to talk about missing persons. It is necessary to continue investigating the crimes committed, especially the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. So we propose a division of Kosovo and Metohija into several regions of which one region would be an autonomous community of Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, etc. Of course, all this isn't part of the resolution, this is a political platform. The resolution does not deal with this issue and neither of the resolutions has ever dealt with this issue. It set out the frameworks within which negotiating teams would move. We believe that the agreement that has been adopted means that all rights and powers, which as a result of the negotiations, are recognised to the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, should be transposed by constitutional law to the authorities of Kosovo and Metohija, in accordance with the Constitution, laws and other regulations. We will look for a comprehensive solution and everything we do will go towards putting an end to the problems of Kosovo and Metohija, because it is in the Serbian interest. But we are not able to take a step back, and therefore, in agreement with the President of the Republic, part of what has been discussed in the public and in the consultations, which concerns the application of the principle - that nothing has been agreed until all is agreed, and that technical negotiations should be terminated. We think at this point it's just not real. It's not possible. It's not practical. It's not in Serbia's interest. We can't take a step back, with no serious consequences for Serbia. Because the only dialogue currently being conducted is that. On the other hand, we ourselves asked for the EU to intervene in this dialogue. On the other hand, we have a dynamic problem, or deadlines. So if we want a step forward in European integration, or a date for the start of negotiations, all these topics must be part of the dialogue, and I don't think that we will be able to implement what we have defined in the Platform by then. That is why, as I said, it is essential that, based on these basic objectives in the dialogue being conducted, we represent these interests and basic political views and we fight for the best solutions that would be in the interest, above all, of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. Accordingly, we are prepared, ladies and gentlemen, to accept some of the amendments you have endured. It has a total of 15 amendments. We'll talk about it. Certainly, all that is in the interest of improving the text is absolutely not disputed for the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept. However, there is one amendment that essentially changes approach. It is the DS amendment, which has always advocated negotiations so far, which has written the text of a resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly on Technical Dialogue. The head of the parliamentary group conducted the technical dialogue in the previous government. I understand that in the first talks with the President of the Republic, they were against the formulation that technical negotiations should be interrupted and they thought it was a blow to Serbia's European path. The Democratic Party has submitted an amendment -- the political platform of the president of the Republic of Serbia for negotiations with representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, in the original form, is an integral part of the reasoning of this resolution. To be precise, it means that the DS is asking to adopt a platform in which the technical talks that are being conducted in Brussels will be interrupted. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the DS, in that case vote for this resolution, if the amendment is accepted, I am prepared to discuss it on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm ready, but I want everyone to know it's your new policy. On the other hand, it's the same meaning of your amendment, so I had to wonder if it was DSS or DSS. Your amendment is almost identical with the DSS amendments and SRS demands, which demonstrates in front of parliament. If you insist on this, I request the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to immediately set a break, the government of the Republic of Serbia is there, for consultations with the heads of Parliament's clubs on the amendment that you insist is accepted. The government will accept it if it contributes to the consensus in the Republic of Serbia. President of the National Assembly, in the interest of acceptance and other amendments, I ask you to set a break for consultations with the heads of Parliament's clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10299	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and wanting to respect the decision and the will to achieve to the greatest extent the unity of the National Assembly, I set a break from one hour to 13,10 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Do the rapporteurs of the committees in charge, MP Vladimir Cvian and MP Vladimir Drecun want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10301	President-in-Office of Parliament, members of the government who are in the O.R., gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. How are you taking this session, Mr. Stefanovic? You set a break until 13.10 p.m., and now it's 14.30 p.m. You continue the session at once, asking if the committee's authorised representatives, or the heads of the parliamentary groups, are coming forward. In the O.R., neither are the Prime Minister nor the first Deputy Prime Minister. I can't even see the President of the Republic. What does today's session of parliament look like? Then what was it necessary to work on Saturday? Without saying a word, you sat down for a pay phone after two, two and a half hours of break and moved on as if nothing had happened. I think you also owe the peoples MPs and the public of Serbia a fundamental order and respect for the dignity of this assembly. I could have advertised that member of the Rules of Procedure who obliges you and anyone who speaks in this assembly to respect the order and respect Parliament's dignity. Let us at least work in the afternoon in a normal way. Ensure the presence of the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, if you have already called him to this session and if you have completed this pointless discussion with the DS about the amendments and platforms, we should start talking about Kosovo at last. I'm asking the Parliament in voting day, whenever it is, to make a statement about this, because I believe you don't think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10302	I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, since the government has decreed that all members of the government be representatives. At this point, we have a sufficient number of members of the government who represent the proposal for a platform that is in front of us. The President of the Republic is invited and he can attend whenever he wants to, but he is not a representative of the motion and has no parliamentary obligation to attend the session. I apologize for the pause, but it was about things that I think are important to the National Assembly, especially in terms of achieving some kind of, let's say, total unity about what is accepted and what is not accepted. Although I agree with you that this may have been before, I think it is a good thing that happened during the mid-day session, even though the MPs, through the president of the parliamentary groups, who were all present, had received adequate information from the government what was acceptable for the government, which is why, which is not acceptable, given that certain amendments have also appeared at some last moment at which the government could debate them. The Prime Minister is not in the room right now because he is working precisely, I say, there will be a cabinet session at 15.00 hours, in which the Government will declare the amendments to the Committee, because we felt that this is the most legitimate way in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to amend what the College has agreed and try to achieve as much support for this resolution as possible, and given the importance of the topic, let me say, the text and content of what will be practically adopted through these amendments, correct the resolution in a way that corresponds to a greater number of MPs of the National Assembly, which I believe is the goal of all of us. Of course, I'm always unhappy and I agree with you, I love when the sessions start on time and the shorter breaks take place, but unfortunately, the break was conditioned precisely by these reasons that I said and I beg you to understand. I didn't intend to deprive anyone of the right to speak. Of course, away from that. But, of course, I will respect your desire for the National Assembly to come forward in the day of voting on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from the MP Slobodan Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10303	Article 27. I attended this session where amendments were discussed. We finished the session over an hour ago. It was said that the government would immediately sit by the amendments. Another break has been extended for a certain time when the job is done, so we can start working in full composition, counting first and foremost on the Prime Minister. I think he's now the most important person to attend to this conversation, a team before we've taken enough time, at least as much as he asked to finish the job on the amendment. I suggest we not work without his presence, given that agreement, but to extend the break and return when he arrives and when they finish the job. It's a proposal just based on the deal we had when we finished that first session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10304	As for that, I expect the Prime Minister to join the session very soon. I suggest we keep working, because we just talked to him earlier and agreed that he would only come to agree on certain technical details about the cabinet's session. I think it's also good for a discussion to define it. Of course, that's my opinion. I would ask for patience, given that a serious number of members of the government are present in the O.R., who can answer all the questions you have, and since the government has authorized each of them to be a representative of the proposings, there are business conditions for work. The Prime Minister will be here soon. I think just because we've had enough of the delay we've had so far with all these breaks, I think it's important that we start with work and debate. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10305	Articles 27 and 106. I think you've now violated the dignity of the National Assembly. Excuse me, what are we going to discuss for the next 25 minutes, if I understand correctly, since the government session is at 15.00 hours? Where's the government session at 15.00 hours? Here, in the Assembly? What did you turn this congregation into? Here comes whoever he wants, holds the sessions as he wants. The government has its own building, let them hold the session, half the ministers are here. Excuse me, will you let me speak? (President: Please, just let Mr. Djuric finish his presentation. ) While you claim that you have had very important consultations on this, here a statement of what is acceptable, which is not acceptable, is given by an adviser to the President of the Republic, who, apparently, holds statements and press conferences in the building of the National Assembly, which is also not cool with the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. What proposal? What text of the declaration should we discuss in the next 25 minutes, when will it be changed in the meantime? Since the Prime Minister is currently changing the text of the resolution, if I understand you correctly, what will the members of the government present comment on? With all due respect, I do not expect a serious debate on the text of the resolution on Kosovo with the culture minister is possible. Perhaps you have a little more free time these days obviously, I see that unfortunately you did not get permission to visit Kosovo to spend important holidays with Serbs from Kosovo. But, you know what, I'm kind of not surprised, because in order to expect order from others and respect from others, first we have to respect ourselves. This parliament today does not work in a way that enables elemental self-esteem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10307	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure in this case, which, of course, the National Assembly will declare in the day of the vote. I am sorry that you have used this section regarding my visit to Kosovo and Metohija, which has been disabled for me, in discussing the injury of the Rules of Procedure, since I consider it a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of this National Assembly. When it comes to order, I think all MPs should stick to it. But, well, that's another thing. As far as this part is concerned, I believe that, since the government is going to discuss taking down the confidentiality mark. Where the cabinet session will be held, I believe that for practical reasons, after they have spoken to me, I have allowed them to have a cabinet session in the National Assembly building, because I think it is more celebular that the government is sitting in this parliament, instead of ministers leaving the Parliament building, going to the government building, going back, wasting a lot more time. It's a completely pointless question where the government will take place. So the government can sit anywhere, if there are presidents and members of the government, or someone who is appointed by the Prime Minister. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been broken in this regard. Mr. Jugovic, as head of the parliamentary group, applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10308	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Parliament Speakers, government members, colleagues and colleagues, the SP-DHSS parliamentary club has long proposed to change our Kosovo state strategy. We talked about reminding myself that a new state strategy according to KIM should only rest on two principles. The first principle, Serbia will never accept the secession and independence of Kosovo and Metohija, due to its special national, historical, spiritual and religious significance of the Serbian people. The second principle, the acceptance of the unconstitutional part of the Martti Ahtisaari plan, the UN Secretary-General's special envoy, as the basis for dialogue between authorities in Belgrade and Pristina, with EU intermediation services. The text of the resolution, today in front of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, contains both of these principles, although the Ahtisaari document itself is not mentioned, but contains all points of the resolution on the high autonomy of Serbs, Serb municipalities and Serbian institutions in KIM, as well as the contents of Ahtisaari's document. I point out this because Ahtisaari's document represents a sort of division of internal sovereignty in KIM between the Albanian majority and the Serb minority, which guarantees a high degree of self-government envisioned, in due time, by Plan Z-4 in Croatia. Under strong pressure from the EU and the United States, authorities in Pristina accepted Ahtisaari's plan and even installed it into Kosovo's constitution. The fact goes in favour of Serbian negotiators, as representatives of the Kosovo government cannot go below what they have already accepted, and Serbian representatives can ask for more than that, especially when it comes to the status of four Serb municipalities north of Ibra. The substance of the proposed text of the resolution is addressed by the unconditional continuation of dialogue between governments in Belgrade and Pristina, the construction of strong Serb institutions on KIM, their interconnection, as well as the cultural, financial ties of Serbian institutions throughout KIM with Serbia. Due to this essence of the resolution, the SPO-DHSS parliamentary club will vote in favour of the resolution. However, by voting for this essence, we do not support some fairy-tale landscapes in which this substance is wrapped and which cast unnecessary shadow on the serious and responsible principles of resolution. It was not necessary to mention the preamble to the Serbian Constitution, to be bound by it and to treat KIM as the current province under the sovereignty of the Serbian state, nor should Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, as of 10 June 1999, stand out as a document guaranteeing Serbia's territorial integrity and a document defining KIM's final status as essential autonomy within Serbia. Instead of these shorelands, which are beyond reality, Serbian citizens should have been told the truth. It is true that, just after UN Security Council Resolution 1244, Serbia was deprived of state sovereignty in the entire KIM territory, from which Serbia had to withdraw its military, police, legislative, judicial, executive and any other state authority. It is true that, with all its annexes, Resolution 1244 was the basis of the Albanian majority for self-determination, or secession, that they used and declared independence, and that the International Court of Justice ruled that the Pristina Declaration of Independence was not contrary to both international law and Resolution 1244. It is also true that Kosovo's independence today recognises about half of the UN members, as well as 22 of the 27 EU countries and that the number of recognitions will certainly only grow. The authors of the resolution know all these facts, and they also know that by fairy tales and structures beyond reality we can neither challenge nor change them. All we can do is never recognise the secession of Kosovo, because it is our sovereign right as a state, without denying the reality that the secession occurred and the maximum commitment and protection of the Serb people and its historical and spiritual heritage to KIM. We do not slave to norms, even if they are written in the Constitution, which cannot be obeyed. Rightly, such norms are called dead norms, and they are not bound. Once again, on behalf of the SPO-DHSS, I am telling this parliament, Serbian citizens, government representatives, Serbian President, that the SPO-DHSS parliamentary club will vote for the adoption of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10309	Thank you, Mr. Jugovic. The next one was registered for the word Mr. Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the JS will vote for this resolution for the reason we believe that the resolution gives the right to the negotiator, and we also give a limit when it comes to something very important with Serbia, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and when it comes to Serbia, it will never recognise the independence of KIM, with respect for Resolution 1244. We need to remind ourselves, to say that the international community has used double arches when it comes to Serbs at KIM and when it comes to Albanians. More than 3,000 Serbs have been killed since 1998, and more than 250,000 Serbs have been expelled. Since the arrival of the international community in KIM, many Serbs have disappeared and been killed. We no longer marked dates, and perhaps we had an obligation to start on 17 March when from nine towns where Serbs lived were expelled, when six villages were burned and over 1,000 Serbs were missing. A woodworker where two children were killed, four wounded. A Nisexpress bus column where 25 people died. For all these Serbian victims, no one has ever answered without the international community watching. The international community has proposed that dialogue be launched in Brussels between representatives of Serbia and representatives of the KIM. It is very well known who represents the Albanian people in the Brussels negotiations, and the biography of Mr Hashim Thaci is also known. Should we have agreed to talk to him or not? Of course we should have accepted it and it's good that the dialogue was started, because we have to go back to a time that wasn't so long ago, so we made marketing from something where we knew who the judges at the International Court of Justice were, who needed to express their opinion – whether the international right to declare KIM independence was violated or not, that most of these judges from countries that recognised the independence of KIM. A Chinese judge, from our friendly state, did not vote – whether international law was violated or not. We ran such a campaign all the time that Serbian citizens thought we would get two Albanias, not just return the space that was taken from Serbia. It's one school we paid for and late for four months to get candidate status for EU accession. I am sure that Serbia will never pay for such a school again and that people who run the RS government and the RS president know with the support of the majority in parliament what we will do in the next period. The international community also prohibits the president of the state from going to KIM, whose visit is religious and not political, and everyone is silent. No one called except for one country that allegedly didn't know it would be banned from the president of the state to go to KIM. That's why these conversations are very important in Brussels. We need to remind the representatives of the international community what Serbia has experienced in the past time period, what happened to us during the time they were in KIM space and at this point while they were in KIM space, and remind them that eight young people were arrested during the time that Vulin was in KIM, and that these young people did not cause or cause any problem when it comes to security and public order and peace, that they were arrested. He was even beaten up while he was waiting to make a statement. The international community knows all that. That's why we need to remind the international community and tell her that all the time staying at KIM was the greatest damage Serbia has had, and that for something they've made us sign and accept, Resolution 1244, it's being disrespected. I expect this parliament to be unique on this issue and to give support to the RS government and the RS president so that we can save something or return, most importantly, the security of the Serbs to KIM, so that those things that happened in earlier years never happen again, on average, to be killed once a month by some Serb at KIM and that no one is ever gossiping about it. Serbia has no time to wait anymore. When I say that, I don't think we should accept everything the international community requires of us. So far, everything they've been looking for has been accepted. What else can the international community expect to ask Serbia? Change symbols, flag, anthem? Of course we will never do that, but the international community and the court in The Hague could not convince Serbia that the court was not made for Serbs, and especially the last freeing verdicts for Croatian generals, for Haradinaj, and that the Serbs in The Hague were given high sentences and for everything that was happening in KIM only Serbs, and not those who expelled Serbs from KIM. In Blac, I have 12,000 Serbs who have been expelled from KIM space. Someone tell me from Albanians – is there a city in Albania that has expelled 10 Albanians? Of course it doesn't exist. That we were bombed for alleged ethnic cleansing, and we experienced both. It is high time we told the international community and reminded it, we say -- gentlemen, you didn't come to KIM to hide when Albanians were killing Serbs and everything they've been doing to them in recent years. Even one Albanian was sentenced to 40 years in prison, so EULEX freed him, and it is known that EULEX came to KIM with the agreement of Serbia from six non-compliance points, as well as Resolution 1244. Serbia is in a very awkward situation today. I tell you this because I often travel to Europe and we cannot bring foreign investors unless Serbia becomes a member and part of that large family. Since we received the date, i.e. since we received candidate status, a much greater number of investors have been interested in coming to Serbia than before we got EU candidate status. For a while, I said it was candidate status for the candidate and that it didn't mean anything until we got a date for the negotiations. If after negotiations in Brussels and after everything Serbia has accepted, the EU delays that Serbia does not get a date for EU entry negotiations in June or July, then Serbia should change its policy. We have voted in favour of many European laws that are comparable to the budget of the citizens of Europe and the incomes that citizens in Europe have when it comes to wages, without knowing all this how long they can hold the citizens of Serbia. In particular, one example, which is the law in Europe when it comes to traffic, you have to change the summer tires and put on winter tires. It is known that 80% of the cars in Serbia are over 15 years old and I'm sure 20% of cars are worth less than tyres to change the one who owns that car because once a year they're going to use it to take the child to a doctor or go to a celebration or a wedding. This is an invitation to the international community to apply the same arches. I'll also remind you not to make another mistake like we did in 2011, to first accept the stamp on which the customs office of Kosovo - and that the representatives who then decided and negotiated when they returned from Brussels told them – you know what, it's not worth what you accepted and then we lost four months. In person, I was invited by the German ambassador, whom I knew privately and as president of Unity of Serbia, and he told me that everything that the officials had promised at the time did not apply in a way that they did not accept what was agreed. I am sure that this government will not make such mistakes, nor will the president of Serbia. Why do I say the president of Serbia? For the first time, Serbia has someone from the Forest, ladies and gentlemen. The forest knows much better what war goals are than those living in some other parts of Serbia. I am sure that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that for the first time the Prime Minister will be... (Sinisa Kovacevic, from the post: And who did you vote for, Markovic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10311	Mr. Kovacevic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly and not throw it out of the bench. Please, this isn't a bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10312	This gentleman who throws me, I really respect and appreciate you, but let me remind you, the only one I voted for was your president then and the president of Serbia, and he let out of the Serbian prisons of 2000 Shipara terrorists, without a decision from the Republic of Serbia's Parliament. So much for who I voted for, and for whom you voted, and please don't interrupt me when I speak. When it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I did not conclude that the Prime Minister is also from the interior, that a large number of ministers are people with experience and I will not say patriotism, because for a large number of you, this word may have been spent, that they are patriots and that they will not make a mistake, that they will always respect the Constitution and that none of the ministers, from the president of the state to the Prime Minister, will recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Unique Serbia will support this resolution, though, if we were wondering, we would give greater authority to both the president of the state and the Prime Minister. Serbia no longer has time to meet, gentlemen. I was just at a meeting of the heads of parliament clubs, for the first time since I became head of the Single Serbia Parliament Club. I'm not gonna say it's a circus, but it took an hour and a half. That someone was waiting for me when I got out of that room, that he asked me – what we agreed, I have no idea. So, I have no idea, no witnesses, someone to say – did you hear what this one, that one, etc. said. The Rules of Procedure on Labour are not respected, every story anyone talks about, we are discussing something where the heads of parliament clubs are present, whose duty is neither the responsibility nor the responsibility to listen to whether any amendment will be accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or not. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you all to vote in favour of this proposal, to trust the people who lead Serbia, because there has never been a majority like this in parliament since 2000. It was in 2000, but it lasted very short, they fell apart quickly and didn't even have 126. This majority is 140 and something. I expect in a way that if we keep working like this, we'll have 160 MPs who will vote for the proposals and start doing something called life. What's called life, it's new jobs, the fight against the white plague and co-operation with the international community. The new jobs are the priority of all priorities, the fight against the white plague. Every year in Serbia, 30,000 people die more than they are born. We cannot stand for the fight against the white plague only in election campaigns, but to see what each of us can do, each of us MPs, ladies and gentlemen, now please the opposition, I want to send you a message. I used to be an opposition, not the opposition's job just to criticize, is to criticise, but the opposition should help Serbia, because Serbia is now in a very difficult situation. To invite a friend from Europe, I guess you've made some friendship while you're in power and say, "Here comes a Steiner, I don't know who's gonna open a shop, hire 10 people, and it'll be a discussion and a report on the work of each of us." I couldn't hear such a report in recent years, and I call on you to be unique, not to argue, not to advise the councils in Serbia to fight, because the people did not vote to fight, they listen to Belgrade's bosses, to fight over the programme, about the budget plan, not to fight over the functions. I'm sorry that Serbia is such a coffee, I'm sorry sometimes when this parliament is fighting all the time, even though one point lasts three days, then you realize something's not working. One point in parliament should last as long as is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure – five hours, plus the heads of the parliamentary clubs. I call you to unity, ladies and gentlemen, to be unique and to help the citizens of Serbia. I thank you once again on behalf of the Unique Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10313	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Bojan Kostresh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10314	Mr. President of the Assembly, President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen and Mrs. Ministers, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will not vote for this resolution, regardless of the invitation of the distinguished colleague, Mr. Markovic. We cannot support this view, not because we do not advocate that Serbia is once and for all to deal with a problem called Kosovo and Metohija, but because we think it is not done enough to deal with the essence of the problem that we have. Namely, here in article 1, position a) of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international law, the Constitution and the will of citizens, does not recognise and will never recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. It's a position that's fine, and it's expected from people who run the country, not to allow the integrity of a country to break and that state to give up its territory. Can we interpret what that means? Can we face another fact? All right, Kosovo is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, because if we say we will not recognise Kosovo's independence, then we probably assume that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. Some people live in that part of the Republic of Serbia. According to the information that was available to me, there are about a million and 500 citizens of Albanian nationality living. Is this high house, are we or are most willing to say – yes, Kosovo is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, we do not recognise Kosovo's independence? But we also ask that Kosovo and Metohija be integrated into the Republic of Serbia, because what will Serbia do besides the myth of Kosovo and Metohija, if Kosovo and Metohija are not integrated? The integration of Kosovo and Metohija means that all its citizens are part of our society, part of our country. Are we ready to enter a million and 500 thousand, for example, I speak indicatively, because I don't have the exact information, but I suppose that's the figure, the citizens of Albanian nationality from Kosovo and Metohija in the voter lists? Are we ready for this state, this Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic, to engage these citizens in our society and to go to elections? Are we ready to sit in this high house 50 MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, Albanian nationality? Are we ready for these people, since they're 50, to probably be, if not the biggest, then one of the largest, parliamentary groups, are we ready for that? I personally am, and is everyone sitting here ready for that? On the other hand, if, let's say, hypothetically, those 50 MPs from Kosovo, 50 MPs of Albanian nationality, sat in this room, are we, say, ready to be president of parliament for us as an Albanian? Are we ready for the interior minister, the economy minister or another minister to be Albanian? These are the things we have to face here, if we want to talk about Kosovo and Metohija. We can't say – we don't give Kosovo, we don't recognise its independence, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we didn't answer, or at least I don't understand, I didn't get an answer to the question – are we ready to do all this? If we do not accept that we have the integration of these people, perhaps if these MPs were to appear here, would this parliament listen to a man who speaks to us in Albanian? You know, I come from Vojvodina, the Vojvodina Assembly is the most linguistic parliament on Europe's territory. There are six languages in the Vojvodina Assembly. It is perfectly normal for people in their parliament to speak in their native language, and whether this home is ready and whether the people sitting here are truly ready for it. I don't know, because if we're talking about needing territory, and we're not ready to integrate the population, what are we going to do with that population? Shall we banish him, share the territory? What are we gonna do with her? These are questions I have no answers to, neither my colleagues nor my colleagues from LSV. That's one of the questions why we can't vote for this resolution. Further in the resolution, the Republic of Serbia is ready to make further concessions, in order to overcome the current situation in relations between the Serbian and Albanian people. At the same time, the Republic of Serbia is not prepared to make further concessions that could lead to the threat of its state and national interests. I'm sorry, but I don't understand. What are we ready to do and what are we not ready to do? What are the concessions we're about to make, and what are the concessions we're not going to make? As an MP, my colleagues and colleagues from LSV, in order for us to vote, we need to know what we're doing, what we don't do, what we accept, what we don't accept? Why am I asking all these questions? Because we think the resolution does not affect the essence of the problem Serbia has with Kosovo. If the problem, in our opinion, is not put in the right way, then we can't even come up with a solution. Since the writing of the Constitution in 1990, since I remember politically, there have been examples in history and before, I see that the prime minister has talked about Balkan wars, I hope that he doesn't remember these Balkan wars, from writing this constitution, to this day there has been a constant attempt to write some legal acts, with no significant basis for the reality that exists on the ground, we are trying to solve this problem. We all know that no matter how many times we go the same way, we're not gonna get the same place. If we're trying the same way to solve a problem we haven't solved in years, how are we going to solve it today? If we haven't solved it with the 1990 Constitution, when, I will remind you, with the call of Serbia, you will be whole again from three parts and arrest Vlasi, brought down constitutional legal order and a new Constitution in 1990, in order to declare Serbia's Unity and to solve Kosovo's problem. I ask you, has the 1990 Kosovo problem been solved by the 1990 Constitution or is it even more complicated? What happened? It happened that, by the way, next to Kosovo, we had one collateral damage, so to speak, it's modern now. The collateral damage is called Vojvodina, so Vojvodina's 1990 constitution, which was made to make Serbia unique and which was designed to preserve Serbia, lost its constitution, its legislative and judicial authority, Naftagas, Post office, Railways, Road Fund, Lutria Vojvodina, Pensions and Health Fund, Regional Police, Water and Forest Management, and much more. I'm going to ask again if we've solved Kosovo? We didn't. Is the Duke's life ever worse and worse after that constitution, is the Vojvodina defiled and humiliated? Yes, it is. The constitutional basis is mentioned in the light of this resolution. I would like to get an answer to the question – why is there no law on essential KIM autonomy? The prime minister said it would be done eventually at a meeting of the heads of parliament's groups. I think we'd have to make a law and obey the Constitution and prescribe that law which autonomy is KIM? We have not fulfilled the Constitution or regarding the autonomy of the Vojvodina and we are writing new resolutions. We're entering a new legal act and we're spreading the story. With the 2006 constitution, which never received majority support from the citizens and citizens of the AP Vojvodina, only in this room, we who are sitting in LSV and LDP warned that the Constitution is not good that it is not European, that it will be defended by our aspirations for European integration and that this Constitution will slow us down, which eventually proved to be true. This constitution, which I was talking about, in 2006, is changing the situation for AP Kosovo and Metohija to offer essential autonomy. So that part of the country that we're writing 11 resolutions today, which is why two constitutions were written, which has raised an armed rebellion against the Republic of Serbia, which has declared independence, which does not recognise this state, we offer fundamental autonomy to that part of Serbia. Vojvodina, in which people who regularly pay taxes, who respect the laws of this country, who respect the Constitution of this country and this state see only as their own country, we have prescribed that Vojvodina a miserable and shameful seven percent, which, by the way, are not respected. I don't understand how to understand this message and what this parliament is, what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia mean by that? By the way, a little bit to praise this resolution by reading and its explanations, I was very happy. Because I realized that those who wrote this resolution, which is the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, know very well what autonomy is. They know very well all European standards regarding autonomy and know very well how it can be applied. That's going to do us a lot of good in the future, because now we know we're talking to people who know their jobs. We'll see if it'll be a good will, to talk or to negotiate. So, in light of the text, we have one position that the Republic of Serbia will particularly insist on establishing autonomy for Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, and that this autonomy will mean the existence of original competences in the following areas. The Duke has no original jurisdiction. Let's get off our backs again so we don't let Kosovo fall apart. So Kosovo is Serbia. Serbs in Kosovo have the right to original jurisdiction, and citizens and citizens of Vojvodina do not have the right to original jurisdiction, where, by the way, in the Corps of all the national communities living in Vojvodina, we Serbs have the most. So if I wanted to banalise, I would say -- Serbs in Kosovo can have original powers, and Serbs in Vojvodina cannot have original powers. I will now read to you how well the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done its task. This proposal requires original competences in the fields of education, primary, secondary and higher education. The Duke doesn't have that. Also, health care at all levels. We have this in part. Then, agriculture, forestry, water, hunting and fishing - partly. Watch it now. Justice. When we sought judicial authority for the Vojvodina, you declared us separatists, and you offered another part the same thing. When we were looking for the Duke's Police Department, we were separatists again. The Vojvodina Police Administration means a special organisation unit for the AP Vojvodina, such as the Belgrade City Police Administration, is formed within the framework of Serbia's MUP. And there we were separatists, and here I see myself looking for jurisdiction in the field of internal affairs, then mining, energy, telecommunications, trade, fiscal policy, etc. I just can't enjoy reading what can be found on one piece of paper, but only when it's not Vojvodina. When it comes to the Vojvodina, then pour the dots, there's nothing that we've talked about. In the end, I have to admit I don't get it, and I've asked some people who understand each other better than I do, how can we give autonomy in an autonomous province? For all I know, autonomy is given in independent states or autonomy is given in federal units. I'll be corrected by one of the promoters, so they'll tell me in which country in the autonomous province of that autonomous province is granted autonomy? I really don't get it, and I'd like to get an answer from the promoter. Only if no one is allowed to notice that the emperor is naked, so we're doing autonomy in autonomy just to have some explanation about finding some language-legal formula that might satisfy the widest number of people. That's why LSV won't vote for this declaration. We won't vote because we see that when we want to, we can't vote towards Vojvodina, and because we don't understand what this declaration is about to achieve. Does this declaration just want to continue agony? What a friend of mine would say -- like in that movie "The Days of Marmots," we keep repeating, repeating and repeating, and we keep having the same things. Or are we really in a position not to notice what's really going on in our environment, what's really going on in Kosovo and Metohija, and what's really a real situation? For these very reasons, LSV MPs will not vote for this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10315	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Samardzic appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10316	Mr. President of the Assembly, declare a break because there are no conditions to work. Indeed, neither did what you said when we first intervened, that they would be representatives of the prime minister's position, there is now, with all due respect to Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. However, talking about Kosovo in the presence of the only health minister is some kind of Nusic comedy. Don't, please, let's do this. It seems like the promoter finished the job and now the opposition's debt to say something. Please declare a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10317	I agree with you. I'm setting a break of 20 minutes. [[After a break.]] Please continue your work. Let me begin by informing you that the MP group DS, that is, MP Goran Bogdanovic, has withdrawn the amendment that adds point 5a after point 5a. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I want to tell you that I didn't realize the essence of what we've been doing in the last five hours. I have to be extremely honest with you in this. The next person to be declared is MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10319	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Dacic, I think you owe us something more than a finding to describe yourself, Mr. Stefanovic as a man who doesn't know what we've been doing for the past five hours. You are the President of the Assembly, and even though you are not aware that you have allowed this to happen to the Assembly in the previous hours, at least you owe an apology for your ignorance. I think it would be easier to say that you are ashamed and ashamed. This is what marks the previous hours of our dealing with one of the most serious problems of the citizens of this country of Serbia, a problem that in its own cause actually has everything that is summed up today, shown in those few hours of shame that we have turned into a Serbian Parliament. First I want to tell you something, Mr. President. I think it's clear that there are only two policies today. One policy that you have presented to me as a representative of LDP at consultations, a policy that has run out of support, a policy with a clear character and a policy that has not passed a reality test. I don't think any of us are happy about it. It's a policy that talks about Kosovo, about Serbia, which unfortunately is no longer there. Another policy is the one we've been talking about for years. This is not the moment of our triumph today, we have no right to such a thing, as we listen to the Prime Minister who repeats more or less what we have said for years. I can't say it's our defeat, but it certainly is a huge failure, because we weren't capable enough to find support for a policy that would open up a new perspective in our society, instead of wandering through agony, for which we're not alone, but to the most extent, we're responsible. I agree, Mr. Dacic, it's no time for big words, but not because it's a good policy without big words, but it's wasted, Mr. Prime Minister. The last time they disappeared was in that tractor in 2008 when you, Mr. Markovic, told us that patriotism is not poured into the tractor. They offered us life without patriotism, and I think, and so do we from LDP, as I believe most MPs and MPs in the O.R., that top patriotism is a willingness to face the truth and that no matter how difficult you formulate politics is, since we are dealing with a policy that would offer us some way out of life that we are disappearing. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, you received the last Serbian student from Prizren, and I remember meeting with the prodigal of Prizren's religion, the current Prime Minister Atanasi Rakita in 1993, when four thousand Serbs lived in Prizren. You're trying to impose one for us inadmissible thesis, which is one of the reasons why we won't vote for your resolution, which is that it doesn't really matter how we have made such a mistake in Kosovo. You know, your government is dealing with questioning what happened in the past. I don't mind that, whenever anyone in Serbian politics defines themselves for that review, we personally look forward to it because we come out of it always stronger. All those pointless arguments that we've been described for years through these questionings are actually faded. Tell me, Mr Dacic, why it is more important for Serbia to have an answer to the question – where everything was wrong in privatisation, from the answer to the question – how did it allow itself to be the only European country, the only country in the world that loses such a significant part of its territory, not only physically, but in one that is crucially defining and affecting our identity. We can't deny that. It is always in our stomachs somewhere, and when we agree and disagree on this Kosovo policy. I ask you, President Nikolic, how are you going to be president for the next five years who thinks one thing and the other works? I don't think that because you were a radical once, vice president of that war government, you have no right to be something else today. No one is black enough to have the right to a good gesture, nor is any of us so good that we can look through his fingers when he's wrong. But you are the one, President, who should tell this country the truth. The second president will not even commit the truth anymore, as in the meantime the last man in the country, the last Serb in Kosovo, will be clear what happened to Serbia in Kosovo. The problem with this resolution is the excess of the ex-post mind and the lack of any vision. I still remember my officer who lined us up on the plateau barracks in Divulja in 1991 in the middle of the war, looked at us and said, "Soldiers, there's no reverse." Then he took off his uniform and went home, and left his 18-year-old children behind. Mr. Dacic, the fact that we can't go back to anything gives you the right to lead Serbia forward without answering the question of what it is. Tell us what our society's goal is. What is the goal of our society in Kosovo? If we are talking about this recognition of Kosovo, then you must say why Serbia cannot recognise Kosovo. The arguments you state are arguments that no one respects. The only argument that at least in our conversations with others came to an understanding, not agreement, was actually the conclusion that none of us could ask us to admit what we didn't really understand. That's where you need to be honest. Mr. Dacic, that's what your party did in 1995. She confessed to Bosnia in Dayton, ended a three-year war and agony, and today, 20 years later, Bosnia is not a state, and relations in that unfortunate Bosnia are more complicated than they were before the war began. Don't solve Kosovo like that, Mr. Prime Minister. You're trying to convince us that you're just implementing the policy of the previous government. In that government you were the first vice president, what Mr. Vukic is in yours today. Imagine how sad your sentences are that you describe this government as the government that dealt with the most difficult political issues by phone sessions. Why did you answer that phone, Mr. Dacic? Why were the first Deputy Prime Minister allowed to adopt documents that give everyone the right to ask you today if you are normal in Serbia when you propose resolutions to deny what you agreed to? Because of the people who live in Kosovo, the ones who are left there, I think you had to, Mr. Prime Minister, even if you tried to apologize, not on your own behalf. I don't think I'm the one who should be telling you something like that, but you're the Prime Minister. You could have said -- you Serbs scattered and scattered around the peripheries of municipalities here in Serbia, as coming, second and third-row citizens, row houses behind those who came from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you parents are sorry that you lost children in wars, who started even though we didn't want them, and we didn't know how to avoid them, which ended in agony and defeat that only we experienced as victory, sorry and you who escaped from us, excuse us, and you Albanians, our citizens, buried here in Belgrade's periphery, forgive us. That would be another Serbia then. You don't have to apologize to us. When we talked here in the 11th debate on Kosovo, every time we talked with ambition to help you and we now want to do it. If it means something to anyone in Serbia, then I want to publicly repeat that Serbia has not lost you and your government, has not lost it either because of Boris Tadic, has not lost it either because of Kostunica, has not lost it because of Milosevic, our Kosovo defeat is much wider than the defeat and failure of politicians and politicians. All of us, both Slovenians and Croats, and Bosnians, and Macedonians, and Montenegrins, and Albanians and 70% of young people do not bind their future to Serbia. We became the country where the main news was that sheik left with a bucket of paprika and cream. When we know that, Mr. Dacic, then we have much more to do. We must first say that the cause of the Kosovo problem is here in Serbia. Whenever we weren't able to understand the time and formulate a policy that would respond to what was ahead of us, we were closing down. We didn't understand everything that marked Yugoslavia's collapse. We didn't realize how much it was actually that big chance we got in 2000, a clean space for serious and profound changes without major internal conflicts. It was your duty. It was a DOS obligation that fell apart in the same way as it was drawn up, in one day, because of what it was made for, because of the authorities. Today, when we know all of this, what prevents you as Prime Minister and you as President of the Republic, Mr Nikolic, from going out and saying these few clear indications, what is it that we offer to Serbia in front of it, what is that forward that your policy is talking about, because we know what it is back there, we survived? If that's an orderly country, on what grounds? We stole ourselves in a vote for the Constitution, and now we cheat on the ones we stole by hiding that constitution from them. I don't know what the obstacle is to formulating a clear policy. If reason is the idea of living in Europe, it's too cheap, Mr. Dacic. Such a people as we are today, he does not need Europe, nor does he need Europe. One who is not able to respect himself, one who is not honest and is not ready for questioning cannot cross such a great path that generations before us have failed to realize. Your idea of being able to discuss Kosovo's resolution and not stepping out of the continuity of the wrong policy that you yourself have proven by quoting one or two sentences in your 1999 resolution speech, it is wrong. I'm not telling you this because I want order to criticize you, it won't open the perspectives we need. I agree with your first vice president, when he describes the importance of Europe. When anyone who runs this country today says we can't do it without this Europe. We were not left without this Europe because we wanted to, but because we were not capable of such a life. I don't know if you're aware, but in six months, as far as you're running this country, a lie has gained legitimacy, not truth. Enough of that. You, me, and you, President, knew very well what would happen on January 11th on the administrative line, on Brnjak and on Jarinj. Those Serbs living in Kosovo, the vast majority of them have long come to understand what we are supposed to be discussing today. But those in northern Kosovo, they survived much more difficult truths than those we today refuse to tell them, when we talk about their position in northern Kosovo. Serbia should take care of them, but it is not able to take care of itself, let alone anyone else. Serbia must find partners in the world, but we cannot agree with each other. You, President of the Parliament, yourself said you don't know what this is that we've been through in the last five hours. It's humiliation. It's a humiliation, but you've allowed that humiliation, you and the ruling coalition. There's never been a session over an amendment. Because of the debate in the party's initiative, which says that the talks are suspended, although the government is proposing a resolution that is totally the opposite, so what does that oblige you to do? The idea is yours, Mr. Dacic, as you said, to stab Gilas a little bit. Don't push him today. Meet me somewhere private, then settle your relationships. This is offensive to all of us. If there are two policies, Mr. Nikolic, we cannot support your policy, because we don't know what it is we need to do to make it happen. Not that we don't want, yes, we want Albanians in Serbia, which is why we went to southern Serbia in the campaign, asked for their votes, tried to agree. We also wanted Rugova in Serbia. If we'd shook his hand like Thaci, believe me, it would have been a lot different. There's nothing more we can do. You can give this power to our police, which is necessary, in order to build normal relations, first in Serbia, and then with Serbs living in northern Kosovo, which we cannot say, as you say, Prime Minister. It would be better if you were a little more independent. What does that mean? In translation it means – take care of yourself. They didn't bring themselves into it, maybe it would have been better if we'd taken more care of them. They're down on the authority of your party. Your MPs from Kosovo are sitting here. That must be forgotten, that word must be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10320	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10321	I'll be done in 30 seconds. There is no support for a resolution that does not formulate what is ahead, there is no support for politicians who think it is easier to keep society in the past than to face the challenges of truth and this uncertain time ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10322	I only have to answer this part, as president of the National Assembly. We interrupted the session, of course, not just to discuss it once, but to discuss 15 amendments. One was a fundamental change in the resolution that is ahead of us, i.e. the declaration, which is why I felt that it was necessary to meet at the college, and we kept talking about all the amendments, which were on the agenda. One amendment, which the DS proposed, was fundamentally controversial, was the amendment that we were most discussed about, to say the most, that is, the one that we talked about most in this college and tried to make a decision in order to achieve as many MPs as possible to support this resolution. That was the essence of the college. I just don't understand why we were discussing something that was withdrawn. That's the point of what I said, and that's the thing I don't agree with in a political sense. The word is Mr. Dacic, as Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10323	I wanted to pick up earlier, but I didn't press the microphone, because in my day, when I was an MP, it wasn't like this regulated, so I apologize. I wanted to inform you about what we talked about, although Mr. Jovanovic was a participant in the meeting. We had a meeting of the heads of Parliament's clubs, where both the president of the Assembly and the President of the Republic were. We talked about 15 amendments. Given the changes made to the Rules of Procedure and everything else, it is ultimately the solution that the relevant committee proposes some solutions based on amendments that we think can be accepted. As a matter of fact, none of the amendments will be accepted as proposed, but based on the agreements we have reached with each other. The heads of Parliament's clubs know what we agreed. I don't feel the need to inform every MP about it right now, assuming that the club bosses will do it. This is about something else. We have today faced an amendment that comes directly out of the party's policy that proposed the amendment. We have faced an amendment, which has not been submitted to improve the text or improve the text of the Resolution. He was reportedly filed on behalf of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He would indeed ask the amendment's promoter, Mr Bogdanovic, to explain when he referred to the Serb attitudes of Kosovo and Metohija? When the technical protocols were signed, was your head of the Kosovo district against everything you signed? You are now proposing an amendment on behalf of the reportedly, taking care of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, taking care of the views of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Serbian Academy of Science and Art. Your party president, Mr. Gilas, I'd like to correct Mr. Jovanovic, are you saying that it's my fault what happened today? Those who have submitted this amendment are to blame. They submitted the amendment so that they would reportedly drive the other MPs to the clearing. To what clearing? To what clearing did the Serbian Government, in agreement with the President of the Republic, change that position from the platform? That's right. We barely convinced the President of the Republic to accept that. But you asked it to change. Your party president said he didn't agree with it, that it would slow down European integration, and now you're asking us to return the text of the resolution and the platforms to what you were up against, saying even, that when we accept your amendment, it doesn't occur to you to vote for it, because it's bad. You're making fun of this assembly, the peoples of Serbia and the people of Kosovo and Metohija, please. This isn't political games. Do you know that I have been here all day in debate with members of the government who think that if you want to interrupt the negotiations, you will not give up the amendment, that we will vote for that amendment of yours, and then you are withdrawing the amendment, saying that we were saying that we would remove the mark - confidentially. That's true, but that's what we said when we talked about the whole platform, so it doesn't turn out to be a secret. The President himself said that we would withdraw the mark of confidentiality, to see that there is no difference between what was adopted and what was in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Listen, as far as your platforms are concerned, have either of you ever seen four points of Boris Tadic? Did he ever see it? Tell him to withdraw the confidentiality mark, he's no longer president. Did you inform Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic that you had changed the resolution? He went to New York, didn't even get to wake up, but was changed by the resolution we submitted to the UN General Assembly. What are you talking about? I was with you in the coalition, I didn't know about the text or the first or second resolution of the text to the General Assembly that we proposed. It's absolutely true. Mr. Krkobabi, is it true? Mr. Markovic, is it true? Where's Mr. Dinkich? Is that true? Therefore, I appreciate it when the DSS says it will not be in the EU. I appreciate when the DSS says we need to cut the negotiations, because they really think so. You don't mean that. You suggested it to make fun of this present-day RS assembly and our entire people in general. I welcome that you have withdrawn this amendment and I am sorry that you have submitted it in the first place. I just don't know how you're going to introduce yourself anywhere more in Europe as a party that advocates dialogue and conversation. No, you're not going to Europe anymore, so good. Mr Stefanovic, who I worked with together, conducted technical talks and negotiations. Mr. Bogdanovic was Minister for KIM. Did you act in line with the views of Serbs with KIM, when the Protocol on Freedom of Movement was signed, were they in agreement, were they in agreement with the agreements on administrative crossings, were they agreed? Serbs with KIM, if they had agreed with you, would have voted for you in the election. The Socialist Party of Serbia received the highest number of votes in KIM, PUPS and JS. As far as you're concerned, I really don't know what proposal you have today. In one amendment, you speak -- you want a platform, but you don't want this platform, but you want President Nikolic's platform, in the second amendment you're saying you're not going to take the platform out of the first point of the platform issue. Now it turns out you pulled the amendment, because we agreed to withdraw the confidentiality mark. We agreed before you even talked about whether or not you would withdraw the amendment, because Mr Samardzic asked whether this version of the platform was the same as the one proposed by the president or not. The president himself was there and said that no problem is that MPs, if they need to get a platform marked with confidentiality, because you are the highest representatives of the state government in Serbia. So, please let us try to avoid this kind of thing in the future, because what if you hadn't withdrawn the amendment, what if the Serbian government had supported your amendment, what if the DSS had voted for that amendment, they would have cut off the negotiations? Wait, ladies and gentlemen of the Democrats, when are you going to learn to keep your mouth shut while someone's talking? Did I throw anything at you?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10324	I ask all MPs to allow the prime minister to finish, and so do you, Mr Dacic, not to address the MPs directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10325	I'm not on a live feed with you here. You're nice to me, but I don't know you, anyway we worked together in the previous term. Thanks to my decision you've been in power for four years, respect that. At least let me go... No, the other way around, because I could've been with Nikolic and Kostunica then and you didn't. Therefore, I wish you all the best. You realized that you were wrong to submit the amendment, because it was playing with the fate of the entire nation and the whole state. If you say we continue the policy of the previous government or previous governments, etc., I will continue everything that is good. Also, of course we will continue the talks and the desire to gain EU membership. On the other hand, I don't hesitate to say that we were wrong and I don't hesitate to say that we can't go on like this, because this policy around Kosovo is sterile and inefficient and does not lead to a solution. That's why we have to look for a solution, and that's why we suggested all of this, to come up with a solution. I'm sorry it was this break. At the board meeting at 18 hours, what we agreed on will be brought into line. They accepted everything that was possible to accept without changing the essence of the resolution and the platform proposed by the President of the Republic. I'm sorry, although no one had that intention, we now have to deal with these issues that are not principled in nature but are a matter of political tactics. I don't think anyone can win on the subject of Kosovo, but we can all lose together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10326	The word is made by MP Predrag Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10327	I don't want to affect the political part of the discussion, but the question was, confirm Mr. Markovic, for those who thought he was referring to me as a member of the government, at the time I wasn't a member of the government. I suppose the question was addressed to Mr. Palma, Mr. Dragan Markovic. It is known that I never vote for resolutions that I disagree with.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10328	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10329	This is really slowly becoming a circus, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10330	I'm just asking you not to call the Assembly a circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10331	I'm saying that behavior and the course of the session are starting to look like a circus. I think that's where your intervention went when you asked what we've been doing for the past few hours, members 27 and 106. Then you let Mr. Dacic speak, not entering into whether I agree with any political views he has made, completely past the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, as you will. The urgency of the Rules of Procedure is to allow a member of the government to speak at any moment. It is understood that this is some kind of reaction to what was previously said in the discussion. Mr. Dacic continued to wage his war with the DS, with some of the arguments he made, I agree, but I realized that we had been here five hours of dribbling and raving, so that you could solve this war in other halls of this assembly, and that when we got back to the big hall, we could talk normally. I don't think there are any grounds anymore, that there are no conditions for a normal debate on Kosovo today, especially after what Mr Dacic was talking about. Is it such a weak government policy that an amendment by some opposition party can force the government to define itself or to consider accepting the amendment? He's yelling "DS"! I don't think there's any reason for him to yell good. All that's going on, it proves how much this is today that we're attending, faking, and there's no guarantee that any new ruling majority, in six or 12 months, won't speak here as Mr. Dacic says, that he didn't know what was written in the first UN resolution and that he didn't know what was in the second. No letter, Mr. Dacic, is the same and you voted for both resolutions. What is our guarantee that there will be at least one letter of this resolution that we are discussing today, in six or 12 months, with the same or any new ruling coalition that you are going to make?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10332	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10333	A lot of bile emotions, hard words, screams, and I don't see what, about the amendment of one, as you say, small, confusing, opposition party. We're really very strong when we shake you up like this over something that's just really exorcism to the purity of this government. What's the problem? You told us everything and gave us a lecture, and you just didn't tell us if you were taking down that confidentiality mark or not. You didn't tell us that, and you said it wasn't a problem. No problem, take off the tag. Here, I'm asking you in public. That's what you said at the meeting of the heads of parliament. We are because, Mr Dacic, we have withdrawn the amendment, because we have confidence that both Serbian citizens and MPs, who should vote for something, will agree that it is normal, they know which platform they are voting for. We may, for example, believe your word, but citizens can't take your word for it. We need to see what the text is. You are now revealing to us what the text is by what you say – you are against breaking up the dialogue. You're saying that the presidential platform is actually the platform you're referring to, or isn't it? You said there was a platform. Did you say there was a platform? I believe you. Remove the code of secrecy, share the agreement with all MPs for insight and everyone will vote in favour of this resolution. If you don't want to take down the code of secrecy and you're bothered by our parliamentary maneuver that we've done here, you're excited about it, you're making conclusions about DS, our motives and politics, with no basis. Don't worry about us. Do you think anyone in Serbia will believe Ivica Dacic that we are against the EU and dialogue with Pristina? You won't be trusted by people who love DS. So you're not going to take off the secret mark. In that case, we are unable to support the text of this resolution. (President: Time. ) Therefore, honourable fellow MPs, because we do not know which platform we are calling on, what if the platform writes – the interruption of European integration and the interruption of dialogue, how do we know that it does not write? What if it's that original platform of President Nikolic, which you're trying to protect with this? (President: Time. Tell us the secret, that we know what we're voting for, but not on the word, but through the government's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10334	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I would like first of all to the citizens of Serbia, who cannot understand what was going on here, to say what was really going on and to clarify some of the misunderstandings. Some people here have been made naive, ignorant. I don't normally protect the Prime Minister, but he hasn't said a single second of it either small, opposition, or a confusional party, even though I might say it today, but he hasn't. I guess that's what you wanted to introduce to the public, so you made it up out of pure peace, I don't know why. So I would like to point out a few facts to the citizens of Serbia. Namely, respected Serbian citizens and respected MPs who did not read it, the DS has proposed today not to know what the platform is. From the text that I will read to you, it will be clear to you that they and how well they know what it is. They even call for support from the platform, the original draft of the platform's text, seen by the president of the Republic, which received support from both SANU and the Serbian Orthodox Church and Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, the DS asked for the platform to regain its legal power in the exact same text at all. That was the D.S.'s intention. We, because of the citizens of Serbia, have tried to make it clear, and at the initiative of the President of the Republic, we have tried to get as much support as possible in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I was against it myself. I've personally been there for you not to ask anyone. Today I want to tell you that I didn't understand why we lost five hours. It was enough to ask people from the DS whether or not they would stay on their diabolical amendment, since all their amendments are absolutely contradictory. If they stay, no problem, we'll come clean. If they don't stay, no problem, we'll come clean. If they don't stay, it's also good to announce it. Neither should they be negotiated in a special way, nor should we waste time on citizens, and blackmailing us whether or not they will vote in favour of the platform, quite personally, I don't care whether they vote or not, especially after this attitude they have shown, which is absolutely irresponsible, irresponsible, unconsistent and a stance that is directed directly against the citizens of Serbia. So, respected citizens of Serbia, the DS told us the following. They sought -- in the motion for a resolution, I quote, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the basic principles for political talks with the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, after point 5, the 5a point reads: "The political platform of the president of the Republic of Serbia for talks with representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina in the original form", so the one you saw is "an integral part of the reasoning of this resolution". So that was the plan and amendment DS. We were thinking whether to support it or not. That's our thing. That's why we wanted to take a break to agree, let's see, because if that was the goal, not my idea, I took it because the President of the Republic asked for the broad consensus, we agreed to talk to everyone, to see if it was really an idea, can we achieve that consensus on these grounds. In their explanation, not to be confused, the following is said -- the said political platform of the president of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in its original form by representatives of Serbs from Kosovo, SANU and the Serbian Orthodox Church, and it is necessary to form an integral part of the reasoning of this resolution, regardless of which the text of the President of the Republic is not presented to the National Assembly. So it is necessary that this text be an integral part of the resolution. If necessary, so you didn't withdraw what is necessary, either you played with our people or you played with Kosovo and Metohija or you played with all of us here or we lost five hours to make four statements here in front of the press, Mr Stefanovic? Your four statements cost this people five hours in the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija the attention and everything else they were supposed to devote to today's session of the National Assembly. Then we heard we weren't ashamed, that we weren't ashamed. For what should we be ashamed of? For trying to reach some kind of consensus? I say again, I didn't stand out in that desire. For one second, I didn't particularly care how you vote, because I know how irresponsible you are, I know you don't care about the state, I know you've been waiting all along to say something against the government, even if you haven't had any fundamental objection, because your remarks are going to be -- the sheik took the cream and the yogurt, or you're going to say that sheik doesn't have a tooth or anyone else in the opposition or I don't know what it is. In your time, you did not want to receive people to talk, and these people today provide the biggest investment in Serbia, such as you did not bring to the citizens of Serbia. That's what we're different about. But you can make fun of whoever you want, you can act irresponsiblely, you can act irresponsiblely, and we'll be held here for hours on how we're not ashamed or how irresponsible we are. I'm sorry, we're acting very responsible, very serious. At the request of the President of the Republic, we've been waiting all day to see if we can agree on a bigger consensus or not. Then we realize that you've been messing with us the whole time, because somewhere at 3:30 you say, we're pulling that amendment. Then make it up for confidentiality. If that's your reason, which is why you withdrew, return the amendment. I tell you, there will be no trust in you, but it will be for those who will receive it. It won't be for you. Return the amendment to show the people that you are lying, to show the people, to clean you out, to show how and how you deceive the public and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10336	Mr. Wolf, please don't speak to the MPs in those words.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10337	I speak to the MPs of the people literally as they deserve and how they behave. I don't make up people's language. So if you think you're blackmailing the Serbian government, if you think you're blackmailing anyone here -- we did it for that and that, don't, when I ask you, don't do it for your confidentiality, here, you don't have it. Return that amendment to Mr Bogdanovic, so let's see how it goes at the vote, but let's know, let's see how we voted it and who's responsible for what we voted for, so that it's the most honest relationship possible. I think it's something that would be fair and that we know what it is and what kind of policy the DS represented, and not here to give us a tiarade and a lecture, and that we have to listen all day to how unserious we are, how unemployed we are. Every day we work unlike you who ask, unlike you, some of whom ask us not to go to the EU one day, another day to go at all costs, and that's why you know how to bathe and relax in the EU and send us such messages from there. Excuse me, please, this government has better things to do. This government wants to look into the future. This government wants to protect our people both in Kosovo and Metohija. This government isn't a lie of legitimacy in six months, it's the truth, the fight and the work. If someone thinks it's a lie to show how and how you can fight for Serbia's interest, I think some people here have a serious problem. As for respect, we respect all the political parties, but here, when you use those expressions, we dangled and waited to see that you plead, because we wanted to achieve as wide a consensus as possible. I'm sorry we're guilty, trying to reach a consensus. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for that. We will no longer want the widest consensus possible, but we will do what is our job. Unfortunately, we realized that there were not enough responsible in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to take the job along with us. We'll respect everyone else, talk to them and finish the best job in the interest of our people. The future of our people is Serbia's greatest interest and the highest interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know who, I don't know what, leave for someone else, and forget about this government and this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10338	Mr. Dragan Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10339	I didn't mean to replicate, but since Mr Markovic was afraid that he wasn't invited by Cedomir Jovanovic, a famous sentence – patriotism is not poured into the tractor, I said on behalf of Unique Serbia. Unique Serbia will never give up the realization of that sentence. I don't want to comment on what Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said, but he promised the international community much more than I did. He's done a lot for the international community. While he was a senior official of this country, he sent Serbs to The Hague – from porters, chefs, who was in a picture, and on the first battle line, he went to The Hague. Unlike Mr Jovanovic, who said in his speech that he was worried and worried about Albanian tombs in Belgrade, JS is worried about Serbian tombs as well. 3,500 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija were killed and missing. So, Mr Jovanovic has a great obligation to criticise the international community, especially when it comes to the UN tribunal's liberating and shameful verdicts, for two Croatian generals, for Naser Oric, for Haradinaj, and not to attack something that JS is not in a position to realise at the moment. What's the point of that sentence? To get Serbia into the EU, to become a member of that large family, but we also have to tell the international community, because since 2000, the international community has watched Albanians, Shipari, kill Serbs in KIM, and no one has answered or been punished. I respect LDP policy, but also, this policy does not contribute to Serbian citizens better tomorrow. Please, Mr Jovanovic, invite those you tasked and tell them that they no longer make up, that they are no longer asking Serbia for something that is impossible, but in June or July for Serbia to get a date for negotiations.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10340	Time. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10341	Mr. Stefanovic, I answered because of the replica of Prime Minister Dacic, and in the meantime Mr. Markovic answered, so I will try, for the sake of seriousness in the Assembly, to respond to both. I think the problem, Mr. Dacic, is that although you are formally in favour of the kind of seriousness of today's work, which would go beyond the party interest, you cannot escape from the sentence you recently said. In fact, you consider it a punishment for all of us to be that you lead us to Europe, and I consider it one of the few successes, because we have managed so much to change you. Forget the DS, SPS, LDP, you run the government. I think it's a serious institution. I didn't ask you to take down the confidentiality mark because I believe you had some serious reason when you applied to the laws of this country. If you've estimated that something should be classified, so be it. Don't let it depend on your goodwill. Every day here in the congregation, we organize committee sessions where we speak, among other things, by calling upon the obligation arising from the law, which does not give us the right to say in public what we hear, so that we can decide on it. As for you, Mr. Markovic, you are not the accountant of corpses and deaths. You're not that. I was also talking about the exiled Serbs from Kosovo, and the murdered Serbs from Kosovo, and I prayed for the forgiveness of those Albanians, who are alive today, because of those we killed. All that balance of one policy that was developing under the dresser that you were under. Don't remind me of what I did, because I know it very well. I've never run from it. There are those who witnessed the way I did my job. I even respected Milosevic and he never thought to say what you said. (President: Time. ) It is true that I also participated in negotiations that led to his arrest and the extradition of Milosevic The Hague, but I did not push Mladic and Karadzic into a tractor, so that he would be in power, which you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10342	The word is Mr. Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10343	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of Serbia, honourable members of the government, honourable MPs, since I am the promoter of this amendment, above all I want to answer the prime minister, because I was called on his behalf, and to say that neither the DS nor anyone wants to make a circus in this assembly. The point of the amendment I submitted is to publicly state whether you are behind the platform, offered by President Nikolic to the Serbs in KIM and accepted by the Serbs with KIM. That's the goal of this platform. The second goal is – is there even a platform? Today we need to make a statement about something that we don't even know exists. In the first sentence of this resolution, we are calling for this political platform, adopted by the government and the President's Office. I don't see why I'm nervous, I don't see the need for pathetics or frustrations or anything. This is my obligation as the man who comes out of KIM to clean up some things here -- whether the Serbs are down again, whether they've been re-planted by a false platform for which they pleaded. You all know that DS didn't believe it and that the committees and presidents of the DS with KIM were restrained, just knowing that we would come into this situation, that neither the government nor the President of the Republic would, unfortunately, give up this platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10344	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10345	If anyone else needs to get a word, I don't care. Since I am the Prime Minister who proposes this text, I have the right to speak because I am not coming out of the agenda topic. What Mr. Jovanovic was talking about last time I said that I didn't think it was bad for us, but it was for those of you who performed October 5th. The biggest penalty is that we lead you into the EU. If we've changed, we've changed for the better, and where are those who have been with you? And they've changed. It's just, did they change for the better? On the other hand, when it comes to Mr Bogdanovic, I don't mind but I didn't know that the DSS and DS cooperate so well, since Marko Jaksic had just advised him about what to say. I noticed he came to him. While Bogdanovic was in power, Marko yelled for him all the worst. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know if it's a political maneuver or not. I am talking about Serbia having technical talks and political negotiations. This Serbian government didn't invent that. That's what you started amongst other things, the UN General Assembly Resolution. Were the Serbs for it then? Are they even asked about it? How can you endure such an amendment? It can be anyone else, but you who participated in it cannot be individually, because it is not correct, because you all know what Serbs think about the agreements that have been reached. In addition, they wrote in a letter that they sent that talks should be interrupted because the results of these talks were directly contrary to the national and state interests of Serbs at KIM. Now you want to examine whether there is a platform, whether we are behind President Nikolic's platform, etc. Is that some kind of secret? Did we publicly say that we disagree that the talks are terminated and that we disagree because it is impossible at this point to conduct a policy of negotiations - that nothing is agreed until it is settled, because we are not starting negotiations over again. You don't know that? You want to question whether there's unity or not? I think this political maneuver was very unsuccessful, but it's your political matter and your decision. I don't make any political noise about it. That's your thing. Just plead which policy you want to lead. Mr. Stefanovic just said -- he wants to believe me that they are now running anti-European politics. They shouldn't trust me. Let them believe their own eyes. It is like when a woman catches a husband in a seduction, and her husband answers – do you trust yourself or your own eyes. You spoke and submitted an amendment that spoke of it. You've submitted an amendment that says we should go back to the supposed old platform. You have submitted the amendment... Are you telling me something? Did you say something to me? (National MP Borislav Stefanovic throws out of place. What? You're warning me about the dignity of the assembly? You who burned this National Assembly of the RS? You're warning me of dignity? Will you stop throwing more when someone's talking? Learn to listen to someone who speaks. I've never thrown anything at any of you. Is that right? Never anyone. Listen to what I'm saying. You won't be sick. You didn't feel bad listening to me. You've created a political maneuver aimed at showing that someone cheated on the Serbs at KIM. Let me tell you one thing, it can be a political maneuver or not, but with what you suggested you made the same move as the DSS, only it's their policy. This is your political maneuver, and I don't think the time for political maneuvers is. I'm afraid it might be time for some new maneuvers. I'm afraid it's time we had a situation in Presevo today where they refused to remove the monuments that raised the KLA. And now we're talking about a political maneuver. I don't want to answer any more of this. What I'm trying to say is that I've put a great deal of effort into accepting it. Tell Mr. Stefanovic what was wrong with my approach. We've invested everything in accepting what you suggested. Everything that was possible was accepted. Cedomir Jovanovic no longer agreed with your amendments but with many of us. I don't think it's a good thing we ran this session like this today. If that's what I did, I apologize. I don't want to fight with you at all, just learn one thing. Politics exists because of controversy. What do you think, you're running politics, that everybody praises you? The political struggle is constant. How do you think you're running politics? Sir, I am the Prime Minister and as such I have the right to speak. The fact that the previous Prime Minister didn't use it is his real problem. Please don't throw it to me anymore, because if you have something to throw at me, we have a place outside to throw, and this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and act in accordance with the political culture that you think you're carrying here in RS. Act like it. What were you like before, wake up now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10346	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10347	They've been broken. 101, 102 and 103. - the dignity of this assembly. Mr. Jovanovic said I was under the rails. I want to tell him that I wasn't in a vest or under a skirt. Unlike him during the war, it is very well known to Serbian citizens what his policy was, to call on NATO to bomb Serbia as much as possible so that Slobodan Milosevic signed the capitulation as possible. After that call, a bomb fell on a bridge in Barvarin, on the day of the fair, where more than 25 young people died.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10348	Mr. Markovic, I have to ask you, these are the difficult qualifications you stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10349	Those are the messages that were then.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10350	You can speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly. You have the right to reply to Mr Jovanovic, but when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you address the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10351	I'm talking to you. I'm not talking to him. I want to inform you since you were a kid then, you didn't know, and now you've grown up, and you haven't even read when you were little. Later he found you and said – this boy speaks well, so let's set him up to be president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10352	Mr. Markovic, I don't mind. Everything you said about me, I don't mind. Please, what you've said has a difficult qualification... (Dear Markovic, from the scene: What you were little. Mr. Markovic, no. Who's little, who's little now, that's other stuff. I would like to warn you that the word you speak can be very difficult and amounts of offensive and inadmissible qualifications that have not been proven in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10353	Unlike you, President of the Assembly, this is my third term in parliament, and I know very well what I'm saying. (President: That doesn't mean you're right. I remember very well what happened and what messages were then from the policy circles represented by Mr Jovanovic. I don't want to quote a man and mention his name, but he was part of that policy back then. That's when little Milica died on her costume in Batajnica, then the tape bombs were dropped, so today in Serbia we have 30% abortions where women can't carry out pregnancy because of everything that happened during NATO aggression. (President: Time, Mr. Markovic. Just two more sentences. I will not allow that when Jovanovic replicates to scream, because he has spoken to such a tone that we from Unique Serbia are scared, so I ask him to speak with that tone that is clear to TV and to the present MPs in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10354	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10355	Mr. President, I called to respond to Prime Minister Dacic. The man who's still waiting for Beethoven and Mozart I don't want to give a single second of our time together, that's what I mean about you, Mr. Markovic. You know what this is about, Mr. Dacic? It's true that you've changed. Even if I wanted to, I wouldn't have the right to challenge those changes. It's a matter of time before you understand something and motives. I'm not gonna be so unfair as to accuse you of doing it just for the government's sake. This is the eleventh resolution of the Kosovo Assembly. Every word we said in those discussions was confirmed by the events that followed. All your attitudes have been denied by events and time. You have the right to change. We wouldn't be serious politicians if they thought it was just us who were meant to lead this country. On the contrary, I think we have the right to a normal life in it alone, as well as the chance to seek support for our policy. You took the right of Serbia to change while you change, because on the one hand you speak firmly, clearly, decisively, strongly, share Kosovo with Albania, arrest in the electoral silence of Albanians who are absolved by this state's decision, and then release them from custody that after the vote, and then come here with different political messages. That's why we have more police around the Assembly today than we did on October 5, 2000. Part of our society doesn't understand that. Part of society doesn't understand that. Serbia cannot solve Kosovo's problem unless people in it know why it needs to be done. You give them that explanation and argument, because you are power.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10356	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10357	I thought you'd forgotten about me, since it's been 30 minutes since I answered the line. Thank you, Mr. President. Perhaps it is good to bring down a little tension with me and perhaps with Mr. Vukic, Dacic, since the most harsh qualifications were presented, directly addressed to MPs in threatening form, were false, bad things, that we said someone should be ashamed, that he was ashamed. We never said that. I don't understand why you're complaining about the five-hour break the Prime Minister asked for. You should either accept or reject our amendment. I don't know why you're complaining or who you're complaining to. We've submitted the amendment. You could've turned him down right away, but the problem is deeper. I want to congratulate the government, I want to congratulate Prime Minister Dacic and Deputy Prime Minister Vukic for having the strength and the political courage to prove here today that there are two policies both the government and the president and that the President's policy has been defeated. That's why we've been looking for this amendment to get that thing cleaned up. You confirmed this by saying that the platform of President Nikolic would not be technical dialogue and European integration. Of course, we could never vote for that. Our goal was for you to say it and show it to the citizens of Serbia. There's nothing irresponsible about it. I'm grateful for that, and it takes strength and courage, so send the president's explanation. That's true. If you're already talking about whether we're talking unworthy of some sheik from the United Arab Emirates, we're not. You spoke to me, Mr. Wolfie, and you said it couldn't during your reign. Maybe it couldn't because you were in the opposition at the time and said what you had to do with the Emirates because they recognised Kosovo's independence. Maybe you could have told him that first, but it doesn't matter now. The fact is, some have burned the Assembly, but they are in your government, Mr. Dacic, from Minister Ilic to the URS. Don't talk about who set the assembly on fire. Don't remind me of October 5th, as it is now the current "it's over" password in Slovenia. Make sure he doesn't come near our republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10358	The word is Alexander Vucic, as a representative of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll just say a few words, since I see that there is some need for you to represent us and the President in a different light. In order not to have any empty and pointless stories, I'm sorry, for my question – why did you withdraw that genius amendment, I didn't get an answer. I didn't speak to you for the Emirate. I didn't mention you once, nor did I think of you. I was talking to someone else. I think they saw it wrong, too. As far as I'm concerned, I never told you. If you wanted to transfer the fact that the Emirates have recognised Kosovo, why are we working with them? We're working together because it's important for our country and we're going to get a lot more than we've gotten from most of the other countries, I'm not going to say from everyone in the previous period. So, to be quite serious, on the question – why did you withdraw the amendment only after four or five hours, there is no answer. Excellent, brilliant maneuver, brilliant amendment, for not leaving him in the process. Why didn't you leave him here in the congregation procedure? It's completely contradictory with all your other amendments. There's no answer to that question. As far as the threats are concerned, no one has threatened you for one second. I didn't want to answer to the president of the National Assembly when I was saying, when he interrupted me and warned me, even though now that I've picked up everything I've said, I don't think he was right, I'm counting on him to see it more objectively, maybe he sees it better than I do. Just because I didn't answer, or say anything, like Mr. Markovic did. So he's probably right. But I'm surprised the president didn't warn you about those threats about "it's over" or I don't know what you think or think you're beating someone here again, like you used to beat up in front of television, like you lynched people, so you never prosecuted them, or you threatened someone to leave power. Mr. Stefanovic, we'll leave the government, so what? That's the difference between you and me. It's not a tragedy when we leave power. It's a pride for me to tell you now -- yes, I'm here for a while, maybe not if the people don't want to, but I didn't steal anything, I didn't rob anything, I can look you in the eye like this all day and all of you together, all of you Serbian citizens with pride can say that I worked for this country as much as I could. I don't know if everyone in your ranks can and can say it today. That's the difference, and that's what we'll always be different about. This which is finished or is not done, we shall wait for the people, and let the people not say it in the streets any more; for don't threaten in the street. That's not good for anybody. I admit that I have sinned myself sometimes in pointless criticism of everything and I don't find it hard to admit it. It was difficult for you today, only one thing we expected from you, one small thing, but the vanity of your leaders was so much that you couldn't do it, just one little thing to say – we were wrong, sorry about that. It was hard for you to say – we were wrong, sorry about that, because your vanity, your political points were more important than anything. I'm sorry, no one's vanity, especially political vanity, can neither be above Serbia nor above Kosovo and Metohija, nor above the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I said everything about what happened today. I'm sorry, you won't hear another word from me. I'm sorry I took so long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10360	It was a replica, Mr. Samardzic? No, all right, then. Mr. Jaksic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10361	I'm reporting right now for the call of the current Prime Minister. It's common for the Prime Minister to see who he hangs out with in the O.R., who he tells. I simply understand that the Prime Minister, as Serbia's first officer, has actually gone into a professional deformity. I guess something like that could be. On the other hand, it is a former minister in the Serbian government, where my smallness would advise a minister. Besides, it's your former colleague, Serbian Prime Minister, you've made a policy together for four years that the EU has no alternative, and together you've made all of these Bork agreements that we're talking about today and we're talking about. What is also important and important is that it is precisely you who agreed, without the Serbian government's regulations, that they could not be realised, and just to remind you that all those regulations have been signed by you, whether with your knowledge or without your knowledge, it is already another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10362	Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10363	There's one thing that Prime Minister Dacic said, which I really have to react to. It is not that we have submitted this amendment because the Serbs in Cosmet voted for the only presidential version, but it is that I repeat that we wanted to show that there are definitely two policies and we have succeeded. Now you can get nervous, yell, drop blood in your face and stuff, but that's a fact. You may threaten to insult us, the people saw today that the DS fictitiously defends the President of the Republic and his political heritage, and his SNS and the Prime Minister read the amendment that we have submitted in fact to the President of the Republic. It's not very good-looking. It's not exactly what you guys talk about all the time. That's two policies. You have two policies. The government's policy has taken over. Mr. Dacic, I congratulate you. It's not a little old. Some said you weren't the prime minister. You proved yourself prime minister today. Why did we withdraw the amendment? Because we've received assurances that the secret mark will be removed from the platform, so that all MPs here know what they're voting for, the most natural, most normal thing. Do it, Mr. Dacic, I ask you once again. If you do not, we cannot support this resolution, whose text is not bad, whose text is continuity, whose text is heard multiple times. Whether we have failed Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, you will look at your eyes, not us. It will be the SNS looking with their eyes, whether they failed, not us, you've noticed it well, except with those eyes, gentlemen, you and thank you for continuing the proud policies of the democratic party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10364	Mr. Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10365	Mr. President, the honourable members of the government, Mr. Prime Minister, has been violated by the Rules of Procedure, Article 106, the previous speaker spoke of an amendment that was withdrawn. It's really not clear to me how it can be said, that we're talking about something in the tide, and here I have paper that the DS amendment has been withdrawn. My colleagues from the ICC and colleagues Bogdanovic and colleagues Stefanovic say the purpose of this amendment was to show a double policy, to show disunity, and I call on them at this time, to come out and once say what their policy is, and what is the real background of such an amendment. Is it the policy of my colleagues from the ICC to invite people to barricades, then to leave them at these barricades, and when I say to the ICC, I mean to a small confusing party, as they like to call themselves, is the ICC counterpart's policy of stopping further euro integration, is the policy of stopping further negotiations? What I will tell you, the government of the Republic of Serbia is determined to continue with European integration, to tell Serbian citizens living in both the southern Serbian province and the rest of Serbia the truth. In this way and this resolution we are fighting for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Besides, tell me if this amendment has been withdrawn or not withdrawn, and what are the reasons why you handed it over and what are the reasons, possibly, if you pulled it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10366	I believe that it is not a broken member of the Rules of Procedure which you have stated for the reason that, although you are essentially formally right, during the agenda, the item of the agenda is discussed, however, the essence of the amendment is not only in the amendment, but in the whole process of the agreement on the vote on this resolution. That's why I don't think he's been broken. Informally, all the participants in the debate have been talking about this exactly, and I think it had to be continued in this way. Mr. Arsic, replica, as head of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10367	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, Mr. President of the Republic, I can say that what is now happening has never happened in the Serbian Parliament, especially since the Republic of Serbia has not exercised its power in Kosovo and Metohija territory. Even when we from the SNS were a fat opposition, we never played with Kosovo and Metohija, and we never made political maneuvers for getting cheap political points, as DS is now doing. What's worse, what she's doing now, and she's working while she's in power, so we've been on the best track for the Republic of Serbia to recognise Kosovo and the Metohija, and when you're so committed to Kosovo and Metohija, solving this problem or showing the difference between the President of the Republic, SNS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, decide why you withdrew that amendment that we were prepared to accept, and you know it well. One more thing, for the first time, Serbia has a president of the Republic who is not president of one party and for the first time, Mr Stefanovic, and you have the president of the Republic of Serbia because we have had party presidents so far. Therefore, do not talk about the division of power based on political programmes, but rather the division of power based on the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10368	Mr. Stefanovic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10369	Thank you. Mr. President. Dear colleagues from NDS, therefore, from the advanced two-headed party, should make sure when they present these qualifications that we understand each other well. I agree with you, except there's a confusion here in the next one. We support the government's text. The government says-- my mother's, the platform is what we tell you. We ask them to take down our confidentiality mark, to see if it is true, to see the public, to see Serbia's citizens. You say - well, we won't - I quote Mr. Wolf. Why? To show that this is a historic moment in Serbia. Serbia's government with the same party has fenced heavily from its former president and the current republic. We, as an opposition, if someone were to say - we are cynical, and we are not, we find it unworthy, that the President of the Republic ends up in an explanation and the prime minister in dissent. Where does that lead, Mr. Arsic or Mr. Granny, anyway? He's leading to Europe. That is why we cannot vote for a platform in which we do not know if it writes what President Nikolic suggested or what Prime Minister Dacic suggested. If it writes what Prime Minister Dacic suggested, we will vote in favour, because it means continuing dialogue, continuing European integration. If it says what President Nikolic suggested, we cannot vote for it. That's why we've proposed that amendment, to test what you want. We've got a two-headed policy, gentlemen. Therefore, we withdrew it, because we received assurances that I believe the prime minister will meet them, and I still believe that he will fulfill it, so that we can vote in favour of this text. What's unclear about that? What's immoral about it? Talk to each other before you reach such conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10370	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10371	Correction works, I just want to say that this isn't about the Serbian government making a different version of the platform. Based on talks the president had with political parties, with government representatives and other parties, he delivered this version of the platform and proposed to the government, so it is absolutely not about the government building another platform. This is the platform of the President of the Republic, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in the conversations we had, we pointed out what we consider to be a practical problem, so that we could lead a rational and real policy. It's about a few things. As you all know, one question is the interruption of technical negotiations. The second question is whether we can run politics – nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, which is good, but when you start negotiations from the beginning. Then, the second question is that those competences that are the competences of autonomy, we felt in the government that it was good not to boil those powers, not to count them all, and then to shut down our ability to talk, but to write that jurisdiction and internal arrangements would be subject to political talks. The part concerning the president's opinion in which security stability should be guaranteed for Kosovo, which is a guarantee that the military, etc., is not part of the platform. It's all in the explanation. I have already said that the other occasion was also said by the President of the Republic that there is no reason why this platform should not be made public, because it is essentially, other than two or three paragraphs needed as an introduction and an end, not different from what it says in the explanation. In our opinion, this should not be related to these topics at all, because it is no longer a version of the platform. So there is no conflict there, that the Serbian government has voted or changed the president's views, on the contrary, it is a joint agreement that we had and I am grateful to the President of the Republic for respecting some of the arguments he heard, which he may have personally had at a certain point reserves whether to accept or not, realizing the importance of the moment we are in. I don't want to take this any further. I understand political parties from the opposition and us from the ruling structures. Here you have one document, i.e. two documents, which were created as a resolution and an explanation that mostly contains a platform adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This platform, of course, can be delivered to MPs, even if it is classified, there are no problems for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10372	The word is Mr. Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10373	Dear President of the Republic, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this is the seventh resolution on Kosovo and Metohija discussed by the National Assembly in the last six years, the fifth of which I have the honour to say several sentences, and in total, as we know, eleven in 10 years. We have always stressed on all occasions when the National Assembly brought documents on Kosovo and Metohija that for SVM, it is only acceptable for a peaceful solution to all misunderstandings and conflicts by political and diplomatic means, through dialogue and respect of the interests of both the majority and minorities in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. What has been the common line of all resolutions and declarations in the last six years? They contained certain formulations, which according to us were not in line with the modern language of diplomacy. They contained certain elements that were war-hoofed. They've been putting an end to diplomatic relations with certain countries of the world. With one of these resolutions, the Republic of Serbia declared military neutrality, which we believe is harmful to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and some declarations and resolutions also threatened the approximation of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we were always restrained when the National Assembly voted, when parliament declared itself on these declarations and resolutions. There is only one resolution on the subject of Kosovo and the Metohija that we have supported here in the National Assembly. That was July 26, 2010. We then voted in favour of the proposal because then it was clear what the then government of the Republic of Serbia wanted, or what the then government of the Republic of Serbia wanted. At that time, the UN General Assembly was being addressed. It's the only resolution we've ever supported in the National Assembly. Once again, we did this because it was clear what the government's goal was and what its intentions were. There is another common line of all resolutions and declarations about Kosovo and Metohija in the last six years, but I could say in the last 10 and 13 years. It is that these resolutions and declarations were without any legal or even political influence. That is why we believe that this current resolution is not as crucial as the text. That's why we think the resolution itself is irrelevant, that it doesn't matter, that it doesn't matter, that it doesn't matter, that it doesn't matter. Then what's important to us? It is important for us to start things about Kosovo and Metohija from a dead end, to start facing reality, which we have been talking about here in parliament for years back. It's important to us that it finally starts with that knot being untied. We're all talking to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm doing and, of course, I'm not just talking to the citizens of Serbia's Hungarian nationality, I'm talking to everyone. You know what they tell me, and that's what they tell all of us? They ask – how much more, how much will Kosovo and Metohija be a key issue in the internal political life of the Republic of Serbia? How long will that be the most important question? How much is that going to cost us? I must also say that of course we are aware of what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and as you know we respect this Constitution in general, as we respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, since this country is our country and our country. But I also want to ask a rhetorical question that citizens ask, but they don't ask that question in a way that they don't expect an answer – how much longer should it take to produce lost generations, as long as we still have to live in this way, and that the state, the day-to-day President of the Republic, the government of the day and the Parliament always begin to face reality? How long will we be hostages of various mantras and ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? I said it's not relevant, it doesn't matter what it says in the resolution. What's important to us? It's important to us that things have changed radically in the last six months. The communication has been profoundly changed in the last six months, I mean the communication of the President of the Republic and the communication of the Government, above all by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. We see this as the beginning of the end of both Kosovo and the EU. The resolution says that the absolute priority is progress towards the EU, that is, in various statements by the country's top officials. Finally, the rating is neither the President of the Republic nor the Prime Minister. They began to tell the truth even though she was painful and the courage was ahead of the citizens' courtship. We have spoken years ago – politics should not tell citizens what citizens want to hear, but politicians should educate citizens. Politicians are supposed to tell citizens what's causing it. That's why I think things have changed for the better. I would like to support this claim with a few quotes from the President of the Republic and Prime Minister from the previous weeks and the previous months. For example, Mr Tomislav Nikolic said on December 27th last year -- I quote -- there has been no victory in Kosovo and Metohija for Serbia long ago, but defeats must stop. The city of Pristina will never again be in any membership with Belgrade in the sense that it depends on it or that Belgrade decides on it. That's what we've been talking about for years. This is what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know, they know perfectly well, but there was no political courage in the earlier period to say it, there was no political courage in the past government to say it. The President of the Republic said the following, I quote - Kosovo is leaking through our fingers, what we could have done five or ten years ago today we cannot accomplish, and what we can do this year, next to the end we will not be able to do. That's true, but that's not new either, but it's a newspaper that the President of the Republic says it out loud and clear. It's courage, and courage in politics should be respected. What Mr Ivica Dacic said in the National Assembly at the end of December, I quote - you say now the EU is forcing us to surrender Kosovo, I must tell you and ask if we have not already handed it over completely. We did. Why? Because only the Serbian national state interest where the Serb community lives remained in Kosovo. That's what we've been talking about for years. Whether we like it or not, it's a living truth, it's a reality, and we have to face reality because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we seven million don't be, that we're not being held hostage by some myths that no one believes in anymore. In the same sense, Ivica Dacic said next December 29th -- I don't want to tell fairy tales to the people, the whole situation around Kosovo and Metohija has long since come out of the Serbian Constitution. And that's what we've been talking about for years, us as SVM and some other parties in the National Assembly, but no one from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in earlier times had the courage to say that. But it's not surrender, it's not capitulation, it's facing reality. We think this is only phase one. No one mentioned today, but we all know what it says in the EU's opinion on Serbia's progress since October last year. We know what is in the December EU Council conclusions last year. It stands loud and clear there, black and white, that neither Serbia nor Kosovo should prevent each other on their way to the EU. This should be made clear to the citizens of Serbia as it is in the December EU Council's conclusion last year. I think we're on a good track because the sentences I've quoted, which were spoken by Mr Nikolic and Dacic, the Serbian politicians in the last 30 years have not had the courage to say, which is to respect, it's for support, it's for recognition, we have to admit that, and we from SVM, it's a huge thing. I said that the resolution is irrelevant and that these statements that I quoted are important because they speak of what will be the next steps and that these next steps of the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia will be in agreement with real life. So a big step has been made. Far from that, in order for us to formulate it from the SVM, it is far from what many citizens of the Republic of Serbia say when we speak regardless of nationality, but progress is doubtless. As the President of the Republic said, we are at least five to ten years late. This platform contains some solutions that this same National Assembly rejected just five years ago, it did not refuse, but rejected. If we had acted differently then, we might have had more today. That should also be said loud and clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We from the SVM want to help with further hand untiement. This resolution and the platform have left the space needed for compromise decisions, which is very important. As I said at the beginning of my address, we have been pushing for compromise solutions that do not harm anyone in Kosovo and Metohija for years. We today, Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Dacic, ladies and gentlemen, want to support this courage. We want to support this beginning to face reality. Therefore, the MPs of the SVM tonight or tomorrow, we will see when, will vote for this proposed resolution. By voting for Resolution, we do not support the text but this new policy. We support courage, face reality. I want to absolutely support the idea of the autonomy of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, however, not all details are clear. We could make a point and ask how could it be possible for members of the majority people in Serbia, if we start from the assumption that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, how can the Serbian people in their own country enjoy national autonomy? How is that possible? Where does that make sense? Where's that in Europe? The national minorities do, but how does the majority people in the state who define themselves by the highest legal act as a national state? How can most people enjoy autonomy in their own country? But that doesn't matter, it's much more important to make it clear and loud that the Vojvodina Hungarians support the idea of Serb autonomy in Kosovo. Mr Nikolic, President of the Republic, you probably remember that on 13 June 2009, you attended, then as president of one parliamentary party, the SVM Academy of Ceremony on our 15th birthday. That's when you said Hungary was an example, as far as helping countrymen in the environment. If so, and it is, I think, then it is logical that we, which the country of origin supports in every respect, as also supports Hungarians in Romania, Slovakia, Ukraine, Croatia, Austria, etc., be in favour of Serbia helping Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I should also say that if anyone understands the Serbs at this difficult historic moment, it's Hungarians. There may be other peoples, but the Hungarians certainly understand you, completely, since Hungary lost two-thirds of its territory in 1920. One-third of Hungary has since lived outside Hungary's borders. I can also tell you experiences, no matter how much we respect the Republic of Serbia as our country, that it takes several generations to heal, if possible. That's what I say most well-intentionedly. Once again to say and to conclude, we will vote for this new policy, for the courage of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. We know it is difficult, but we believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President should lead a policy that is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of national and all other belongings and any other possible differences in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Not only should the interests of the people of Kosovo and Metohija be taken into account, but all of us seven million citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10374	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10375	Dear Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transfer, and especially our brothers in Kosovo and Metohija, I could speak for 30 seconds and say that the NS Parliament Club, with all eight MPs, will sincerely support the resolution that is ahead of us. I decided to speak a little longer, disappointed, as I think most of the citizens of Serbia, who heard and saw this here in a few hours what was going on. How much, first of all, will it take for us Serbs to understand, the political options and the political leaders, that Kosovo's politics in Kosovo and Metohija can't win a rating, and the cheek can lose forever? I think that the current government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of Serbia, as rarely in the near past, as few statesmen who led Serbia, honestly, courageously and responsibly, have truly and realistically seen where our country is and within it, Kosovo and Metohija, and offered in the past few months a series of talks that were not common to political practice in previous years, and with those we might not talk to, that this is a private matter of one of them or mine, but rather a matter of the state interest of Serbian citizens. I must admit, perhaps in my political naivety and my colleagues from the NS Parliament Club, that we have come today with the illusion that we will attend one session of two to three hours, aware of the responsibility we have in front of our citizens, voters, and also in front of history. I'm listening to some of the colleagues here who talked, so it's like they're saying that the policy of the president of the state is definitely defeated, and he's the initiator, and he's putting together a platform and most of the motion for a resolution. How can you not understand, if he has stepped down from something, that it is his virtue and that for the next ten years, he will, among other things, be the president of Serbia? It's his strength. So there's no such thing as his vanity. The man sees Serbia's interest and, within him, various political ideas and political interests. The second moment, where I was and had the illusion that this session would look like something nicer, if anything nice could happen to our Serbs in the coming years or months in Kosovo and Metohija, given what they've been through, that famous meeting of the heads of parliament groups was, which I hadn't attended in the past 12 years since I was a national MP. So, three men with three of the most responsible functions, the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister and the President of the State, sat down for the first time with all the heads of parliament groups, and from words to words, from amendments to amendments, without any vanity, as easily as possible, talked to representatives of opposition parties, to come up with a common solution. Some of our colleagues here are talking about political maneuvers. Do we have the right to political maneuvers, gentlemen, brothers and sisters, if it is Kosovo and Metohija, if it is sacred to us, if what we all say is ours? I don't want to mention anyone, I really don't want anyone to realize that I have something personal and that I'm disdaining someone, that I'm giving him a cause for replication, but in political maneuvers, some maneuvers are also involved with combat ammunition, and also with blanks. We're witnesses today, we heard here that he was involved with political impasses. Do we have the right to do this when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija? I also listened to some colleagues here, who talked about euro integration. Well, of course this is all connected. It is not today, gentlemen dear, that I will not say any special truth, nor my art, only about Kosovo and Metohija, this is where it is discussed about Serbia. When some of the previous declarations and resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija were adopted, I said whether we are talking about Serbia and all Serbian citizens here. Of course the success of these negotiations and talks, it's obvious, it has to be said, no matter how difficult it is for me and perhaps I wouldn't want to admit it in my heart and soul, will depend on these Eurointegrations. Some have had the opportunity, not knowing how many years ago, to be the top interpreters of the European pathway. What did they do? It's come to the foundations of the state to totally collapse. If I were like one, I'd say, "Well, man, you were in the government of Rexhepi by yesterday, don't do it to me now." It's not an opportunity, and it's not the time. Whether I was deceived, that should be said by the other fellow heads of Parliament at that meeting. I haven't heard a word out there as harshly, for some and offensive as we've heard these past few hours in direct transmission, which, unfortunately, the citizens have listened to. I'm not for us to show any false unity, but what was happening at that meeting was maximum correct, especially from the head of state and from the Prime Minister. I wish it were in other countries, too, I'm not sure, but it's a good thing it's about Kosovo and Metohija, and it's in everyone's interest to reach some consensus. What happened after that really disappointed me, and I believe most of Serbia's citizens, and that disappointment can all be prevented together and we can relax in the follow-up session and end this session within a decent time and vote and congratulate our Serbs on the New Year. Is Kosovo an independent state? It seems that for some of our colleagues, the only resolution that we will all say "yes, Kosovo is an independent state". Another colleague who spoke before me as long as we will talk about Kosovo and Metohija -- while there is a living Serb in Serbia in the world that will be our theme forever. I may be talking to emotions, but I've been talking these past few days, preparing for a session, from a party famous here in the political sky of Serbia that it's not very patriotic, that I'm not talking to young people, none of which is independent of Kosovo. So if that were independent, why would we be asked to talk about it? Therefore, while it is not a member of the UN, even if by some case it is, it will not be independent until the Serbs agree, because we live here and our people down there live and live and for centuries we will live next to each other. So it's an interest for both of us to make a deal. The fact that a colleague before me said that the president showed courage, okay, is easy to be brave in politics, but he showed state's skill and wisdom, and that showed by the first move, when he resigned from party office. Exactly what one colleague recently said after so many years, we first have a president of the state who is not at the same time president of the party. I'm not saying that the Prime Minister is acting partyly, far from it. So, we had a chance at one. No one would have dropped the crown from their heads and no one would have lost their opposition eagle, as if there were no room to criticise this government for some moves, so do some of us who are part of the ruling coalition, but in Kosovo and Metohija, on this topic, there was no opportunity in the resolution, gentlemen. This is my appeal, not to say for some unity, but for the minimum courtesy of ending this session for a people who look at us at a decent time and vote honestly, as they think. I think the resolution and the text of the resolution is sufficiently tolerated for all the options that exist here, regardless of the political programs and ideologies. To talk, we must, but to acknowledge Kosovo we will never. I didn't have to say anything, I could only say what was said in the resolution in point 1 below (a) of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with international law, the Constitution and the will of the citizens will never recognise and will never recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. I think about everything else that we can talk about and give that message both today's sessions and messages to those Albanians downstairs living in Kosovo. We don't want a fight, we don't want a war, we want to talk to you. We'll be neighbors forever. I think it's a Christian Israeli message from here, but we'll never agree that it's not our country and the soul of Serbs while there's a Serb alive, perhaps a younger, perhaps smarter, perhaps more capable than I am. When I see this youth growing with 21st century and with technology and with the EU and with all those values that we want to apply here in Europe, the vast majority will not give up Kosovo and Metohija. It's indestructible. It's like faith to you, it can never be destroyed. It's like water to you, it can never be crushed. So what we feel about Kosovo and Metohija, it will exist forever in the Serbian people, is just a matter of how an acceptable solution can come about. Point b) of the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija says the goal of the talks is to create preconditions for the Serbian community and other national communities in the entire area of Kosovo and Metohija to be able to strengthen, grow and live in peace and security. The whole resolution exudes one tolerance, calling for talks. I don't know what's going on here and what could be controversial to anyone. He would not vote any member of New Serbia, and neither would I, if there were, among other things, to say that the basic starting premise for talks with Pristina's provisional self-government institutions at a high political level should be that the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international law, the Constitution and the will of citizens, does not recognise and will never recognise Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. If it wasn't for independence, they wouldn't have talked to us. As for the NS, we support a policy led by both the president of the state and the government headed by the Prime Minister, which already has one continuity. So you're talking. We support that you continue to discuss with these people representing Albanians from Kosovo, but that every step, if not every step, then some three-month steps are being reported here by MPs of the National Assembly, and not as in the last session, that we have a 10-15 session where irresponsible people will not come. It gives us assurances that so far the behaviour of both our government and the President of the Republic will be so. Therefore, once again, I would like to welcome the text of the resolution, to welcome the text of the reasoning that follows the resolution, and that, as our government, especially the president of the state, will have genuine support in the MPs of the NS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10376	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, the Kosovo problem, as it is, did not come into existence today, but for decades it has been burdening Serbia, and before and beyond communities, i.e. The former Yugoslavia. The problems that were created at the time were not adequately solved, they piled up, and the culmination was created in 1999, when violent withdrawal of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia occurred after NATO intervention. Otherwise, the history of wrong and inadequate policies towards Kosovo and Metohija is very rich, and I don't think the Serbian side has always been responsible for everything. Many interests of Albanians, world forces, our neighbours and who knows who else has been intertwined through Kosovo and Metohija, but the most difficult consequences are borne by Serbs and other non-Albanians living in a one-provision called the state of Kosovo with a minimum of human rights, freedom, rights to movement, education, health care, etc. Dear People's MPs, the SDPS believes that we should fight and seek a solution by respecting two principles – the principle of reality and the principle of justice. The principle of reality, because we cannot enter Pristina, and neither can they enter northern Kosovo. That's what my colleague Pastor was quoting. Also, it cannot happen that Serbia always has to give in, give in some rights, and that the other side just gets in. It's got to balance access, which means no one gets everything, no one gets anything. A compromise can be made by respecting these two principles. Also, we are starting from the point of view that the Republic of Serbia has not recognised, nor will it ever recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Serbia's stance is respected by countries that have not recognised Kosovo, but also by those countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence. It is our right, but this does not mean that we should not talk to representatives of temporary self-government institutions in Pristina and on technical and political issues. Technical issues should provide the best conditions for the lives of Serbs and other non-Albanians, both those in northern Kosovo and Metohija, as well as those south of Ibra, who live in enclaves. The question is also how to protect cultural heritage that is not only ours but also world heritage? In doing so, simple technical questions, how to travel, which tables, how to treat, train, protect property, etc., are vital to a normal person. He doesn't have time to wait for historical circumstances to change. If they change, he lives today and seeks quick but sustainable and acceptable solutions. That is why the SDPS will fully support this resolution and will vote for it, and we also believe that Prime Minister Ivica Dacic should continue talks in Brussels. In these talks, although the maneuvering space, for our side, is limited, taking into account the current political and economic circumstances, but in such a narrow space it is necessary to discuss and seek improvement. It should be borne in mind that achieving a sustainable solution is a long-term process and is ready to compromise in order to overcome the current situation, but given the state and national interest. In our opinion, the proactive approach we now have means a great advantage and it should be used. A sustainable and lasting solution to the Kosovo problem means that we will finally have a zone of peace and stability in the Western Balkans. Of course, the presidents of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija should consult at all stages of the negotiations. Their opinion and attitudes are very important because they will directly participate in implementing agreed policies in institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. Dear MPs, resolving Kosovo's problem is closely related to Serbia's European integration. For SDPS, these are two parallel processes, interlinked. Progress in one process must lead to progress in the second process. For SDPS, Serbia's European future is unquestionable, regardless of all the difficulties that arise on the road. For us, it is "modus vivendi", but we insist on respecting what we call European values. Many issues, especially in the technical part of the talks, are efforts to provide living conditions for our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, which falls within the basic human rights corps in line with European values. Dear MPs, we must objectively look at the reality, the strength of Serbia and realize that as a small country, we do not determine world flows, and that as a result of the wrong policies, we have always had expensive prices. So let's turn to realisation of things, with our values, advantages and opportunities, and let's get Serbia to ourselves to be desirable to others. We must work a lot to introduce European values, laws, respect for rights, regardless of the time limit we will enter the European Union, although we would like that to happen as soon as possible. Let us address as soon as possible and life-threatening issues that will allow citizens of Serbia to be better and to live in it better. In the end, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic on the ongoing conduct of the negotiations, and to wish him success in the next rounds. In doing so, we believe that the resolution, as well as the documents that follow only the framework, both for technical and political talks, and every solution that comes to it, would have to be found in parliament in front of MPs. I reiterate that the SDPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this resolution, with the hope that it will be a good starting basis for achieving concrete results. I also believe that Kosovo's Gordy Node must be resolved by this generation. Serbia has no time to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10378	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10379	Dear President of the Republic, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I remember the end of this meeting that we had with the President of the Assembly, the Government and the State, when the President of the Assembly suggested that we propose to our colleagues in the Parliament club a reduction of discussions to end by ten, eleven, twelve hours. After that, the government with DS representatives, two-and-a-half hours increased about one amendment, to re-develop a discussion between them that lasted another three hours. What we would have saved in about half an hour – an hour, they simply used gallantly in their interfaces that we had to listen to. I'm sorry to have to start with this discussion, but it's more important to me to have one syndrome. No matter how much they argued with each other, I have the impression that they will end up in some peace and order, each other, this whole debate and somewhere I suspect that this resolution will be adopted with more MPs than the number of representatives of the ruling party. It would be no wonder, given that, regardless of the arguments and insults, the two sides tie one important thing to them, one common denominator, and that is their wild desire to introduce Serbia into the EU. It's such a big wish that there's one dispute in orthodox in that thing, who's going to believe in that dogma more. From this dispute comes a whole series of competencies, competitions, envy, and jealousy. We've been to such a fight. I only mentioned the European Union because it is absurd that we are losing five hours because of it, and we are talking about Kosovo, but also more than that, because it is one structure that works full steam to kidnap Kosovo from Serbia. So much more absurd is this argument, which exists among government representatives and representatives of the opposition party, about one amendment. At the very end of the line, that amendment was withdrawn and we had to listen to that argument anyway. This resolution, which received an epilogue in this debate, of five hours of meaningless and completely meaningless, I don't think it could have gone any better. We've been waiting for her for six months. It was announced at the end of July. Meanwhile, the government was working on Kosovo's issue, pushing further on its own, without some state document, a new government document. She, they say, continued the policy of the previous government because she was forced to do so. She actually wanted to stick to fair play, so that according to the international community, it doesn't turn out to be some state that won't respect the obligations of the previous government. To be clear, that's not the main reason why in the last few months, when we didn't have a platform or a resolution, the government ran such a policy. The main reason is that the government decided to continue the European path at any cost, and it resulted in the government's obligation to apply those agreements that are highly unfavourable for the country. So, in the meantime, when she didn't have any documents, and as we waited for him all along, she did a lot of work. She downloaded the text from the star of Kosovo, for example. She built these customs and other checkpoints at an integrated border crossing. She continued talks with Kosovo representatives, so-called representatives. independent Kosovo countries. We've been waiting for the resolution all along. She finally came after many peripetias. I'm talking about this phenomenon that we need to decide today as one completely, how do I say, pathological element in our political life. So, we have received a proposal from the platform, in which the President of the Republic tried to turn on some light in that dark tunnel, to move that policy from that terrible determination in which Serbia only loses, in which Serbia can't get anything on European integration, and not even that date, if it doesn't hand over Kosovo. It was obvious from a few views of that platform and it was really a shift, it was a change. It's a light that's been intruded by someone, whether I'm president, whether anyone else, it doesn't matter now. We found out today that it's a unique attitude and I believe it and I don't want to go in who actually brought it back to the beginning. Then we got a resolution with a very strange structure and because of what happened, the DSS decided to put amendments to that text, as she read it. You remember, the public talked about it, the journalists talked about it, after the first talks with the President of the Republic, the DSS announced an amendment. She found enough reason to consider the original text of the president of the Republic a good initial step towards changing a policy that is Serbia's suicide policy. When we saw that there was nothing of it, when we saw the text of this resolution, we made the amendment as much as we deemed necessary, so eight. None of them have been accepted and that's kind of understandable to me. It's not about the amendments. It is about the topics, the aspects of the problems in this resolution, where we express our disagreement with the continuation of this policy, which, I said, is falling into some past recently, where it has been decided to sacrifice Kosovo for some gain in the EU and with the EU. So, every attitude in this resolution that repeats that all this seems to be for the sake of European integration, that even talks should be conducted by contributing to European integration. In a situation where the EU intervenes and the EU helps Kosovo independently, each such attitude had to be deleted according to our amendment. Then, any stance that says talks should continue that began a year ago and that led to Serbia's obligation to step by step in step, but quickly recognises Kosovo, that these talks must stop, as it was formulated in the original proposal for a platform of the president of the Republic. There are then amendments to the situation of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. There is one position in this resolution, through which one can well test what the government is thinking with Serbs and on the Serbian issue in Kosovo and Metohija. In that position, she wrote that the Serbian community and other national communities should enjoy, advance and develop in Kosovo and Metohija. We have rebelled against the term "Serbian community", because it is insidious for the position of Serbs in Kosovo. In fact, if we use such an expression, it is a magazine of a policy that will treat Serbs in Kosovo as a community or as a minority, on which the matter will end in an independent Kosovo, which will, however, gain great competences of autonomy in that Kosovo, which is discussed by the reasoning and part of the platform, but will remain what the word itself says – the Serb community. Our amendment says those people should be called by what they are in Serbia's constitutional system. They're Serbian citizens. If not said -- Serbian citizens, then they simply secede, are legally separated from the category of people who bear Serbian civil and civil rights. It's one important moment of this amendment that, of course, has been rejected for known reasons. You see, the platform in its Article 1 shows what kind of difficult compromises were within the governing structure any words when it was formulated. That article 1 is totally weird. It said the assembly should adopt a resolution that will lay down principles based on a platform on political talks. So it's a completely confused order of moves as it should be, regardless of chronology, what was first and what was second. It is logically understood that the Assembly should adopt a resolution with the principles on which the platform will be based, completely opposite of what it says. With one amendment, we wanted to put order into this galaxy words and concepts that no one would understand. Of course, that amendment was also rejected. There is another topic that is very important, and this is the subject of this special law on essential autonomy, which we have also proposed and which we originally thought would be our only amendment. In fact, Serbia is obliged to pass the constitutional law under the constitution, but it is not just such a constitutional obligation. It's about something much bigger and more important in that proposal of ours. You all know that the provisional institutions of self-government declared Kosovo's independence on February 17th and in all possible talks with representatives of Serbia and Belgrade definitely formulated their starting position. It reads - Kosovo is independent. Serbia has a view -- we will not recognise independent Kosovo and it is written in this platform. But it's a defensive approach, a completely defensive tactics. That Serbia will not recognise an independent Kosovo doesn't turn anyone on, neither the Albanians in Kosovo nor the EU. So they can all get over it, because Serbia can't recognise any country in the world, so no one will get excited about it. What Serbia had to do was define its legal relationship with Kosovo, as it sees it, in a politically strong position. The legal relationship was to be formulated by this special law on essential autonomy, on the one hand, because the Constitution of Serbia in the preamble says that Kosovo will have the status of essential autonomy, and secondly, Resolution 1244 establishes the essential autonomy of Kosovo. We have two strong reasons, legal reasons, to do so, and we have a political reason to tell the whole world after Kosovo's declaration of independence, and above all, the EU, which is our position on Kosovo's status, regardless of how much we know that the status talks may not be conducted. But if they don't, they may be guided one day when the situation is more favourable to these conversations. If we go to the EU at all costs, it is understood that the status talks will not be because for 22 EU member states and for the EU itself and its institutions the status problem is solved once and for all. Therefore, we have capitulated the fact that we did not want to pass this law that acts Benningly, or even legally excessively, and has a strong political function. Today was a proposal from the Prime Minister, when we discussed the constitutional law being passed after talks were held with the Pristina delegation and after they ended. What are you talking about? The status talks will not be obtained in this constellation. So we'll never pass the law. If technical talks are concluded, then Pristina will not accept that it adopts a status-defined law. Therefore, these things are quite clear, but your maneuvering space to do anything, when you have indeed decided to give Kosovo for the date, remains very tight and is clear to every man who negotiates with Brussels. It was also clear to us when we negotiated with Albanians, however, under the auspices of the UN. The Albanians had a rather comfortable position because they knew what they wanted and knew they had a strong back. It was the United States, NATO, and the EU at the time. We didn't have such a strong international back, we did what we could, but during those months, over time, we got really strong support. Our support in the UN security world came to pass, July 2007, with Russia's firm stance, a state that has the right to veto, that it would not accept the change in Resolution 1244 by the Martti Ahtisaari plan. China, like another country, was for this, as well as a number of missing members. Serbia's position in international relations, which was severely overcome and which could have been guaranteed, certainly one other negotiating situation, after a year, two or three, the latter government has thrown it into the water since 2008 and thrown it under its feet. Today you hear in this assembly that there is talk of an international community that is doing something about these talks, negotiations in Kosovo and Kosovo. People, this is not true and it is only one euphemism, it is Western countries – the United States and the EU and their Member States that are running the game here. They are not an international community, they are part of the international community, and over time, increasingly weak and unaffected part of the international community. If you have a firm intention or a serious strategy to preserve Kosovo within Serbia with what you have on the ground, in Kosovo itself, you will not enter those talks and allow the EU to intervene. The European Union is not an impartial mediator, we all know that. Someone today quoted the views of the last conclusions of the Council of Europe. The European Union has a clear position and in the far line, it is not even an EU position, it is a strong Member State's position. If you will, the matter comes down to Germany, Germany, which has submitted to our delegations that seven-point paper, where you have that seventh point that a deal with Kosovo should finally be made, a written agreement on mutual obligations. According to that point, of course, it is also the view that Serbia and Kosovo should not disturb each other on the path of European integration, as set out in the Commission's opinion in October 2012. Gentlemen, you know all this well. These are the documents you are constantly reading, which you have in front of your eyes, but you are persistently leading a policy that is absolutely the policy of losing Kosovo, and this is not a loss due to historical disasters, given that it is stronger in Kosovo, we have had in the last 500, 600 years. He rode harder on Kosovo more than once, so he took off from Kosovo. But never a Serb who represents people, who represent the people of Serbia, accepted it. That's what this is about. It is about Serbia accepting the EU's ultimatum, making its own move, not to shoot itself in the leg, but to shoot itself in the temple. That's what you do when it comes to the state. You have no right to do that. You have a clear opportunity, an opportunised opportunity to defend Kosovo both in the international community and in Serbia and Kosovo. When it comes to Kosovo, we had until four, five years ago control of 15% of the territory. We left that in the legacy of the government that inherited us. What did she do? She disbanded local authorities she didn't like, and you all stopped the local elections in Kosovo together. Is that what happened? You called it in, but you didn't want to do it. They were conducted only in two municipalities of local elections, in two municipalities that were not loyal to your decision, but were legally able to do so. That's the retreat I'm talking about. Now the Prime Minister says - we have done something against the parallelism of institutions. No, you destroyed our institutions there. A Serb municipality community was formed at the end of June 2008, based on local elections in 24 Kosovo municipalities. These are our institutions and communities of communities. It could no longer function, if these municipalities no longer have electoral legitimacy, they lost in 2011. We have disbanded our institutions, our community of municipalities. Now we're going to negotiate to get some perfect autonomy. Please, no one's naive. When you read the explanation, actually to the Platform, you see that there's such a large number of maximalistic demands that it's impossible to achieve them and I don't know who you want to throw dust into your eyes? You won't to the Serbs in Kosovo. You won't be able to, because it's their skin. They know exactly what he's doing with them, and that's why they're so complicated. They don't need a material good from Serbia, of course, in the first place, they don't need a nice word, they need Serbia's support as citizens of Serbia, as citizens of Serbia. It breaks everything, whether you release them down the water, or keep them as citizens of Serbia. (President: Time. ) With the category of the entire Serb community, you release them to Thaci, hoping that he will accept this great autonomy. Please nice, it's not. No matter what this seems like a failed thing, only the DSS is against the EU, not because it hates the Union, not because it does it for dogmatic reasons, but because of Kosovo. (President: Time, Mr. Samardzic. ) You are all for the EU, and I certainly have that in mind, I will end up very quickly, but in fact, the DSS draws the clearest consensus from the government's move and tells the public about it. So, a citizen at KIM who recognises their country, they stick to the end. This resolution, if adopted, will be the scissors that rely on that thread, which we will finally unwind and that small bond we hold and leave them in the hands of Kosovo institutions and Hashim Thaci.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10380	Please, Mr. Samardzic, you've been talking for almost a minute now. The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10381	Madam President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the Government, Mr. President of the Republic and distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members, today we have a topic on the agenda that is so broad, especially if we understand it even wider, that, in fact, the Chairman cannot use the Rules of Procedure at all in the sense that the MP has missed the topic. However, the debate, especially in one large part, today has shown that it is always and, I think, those who wish it were, we also use it in a bad way. What do I mean? This is by who knows which way to discuss Kosovo in the Assembly. In every debate, facts and arguments have been brought in. This time, until the final proposal for a document that we have today before us, it took part in its creation, from the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, members of the government and in the consultations of many others, from Serbs from Kosovo to SANU, SPC etc. I don't believe it, and I haven't heard a lot of new arguments today that's going to help us so much here in our MPs' room, and that's what I've been talking about before, it hasn't already been covered. For these reasons, and also for the reason that we are economical in time and to finish this job, the PUPS parliamentary group will not talk about what has been said many times. We're going to say very specifically a few words based on the resolution document. We believe that the resolution and the adoption of the motion for a resolution is a realistic approach, a fragmatic approach of this government, which, on the one hand, maintains continuity, regardless of what is said here and resents the fact that discontinuity should be done right now. But I think there's a continuity since Kosovo's problem is at least one of us, which is to defend and defend it. That's the continuity. The realism of this document and the promoter is that it intends to apply, I would say, if we were to compare it with the football coach, the tactics of the new one, or the director in the theatre, which means – they have brought the most comprehensive document in the form of a negotiation platform that follows this document, i.e. the resolution and follows its principles. I want to believe that this government, in one brave step, is extremely realistic with both legs on the ground, given the circumstances in which we should perform and lead the upcoming period of struggle for Kosovo, given that I am deeply accepting what the Prime Minister said, we have no opportunity to take any step back, or to return to the beginning of solving the problem. It's the one thing that stops us. The other thing is, we have a situation where we can't bring in a document and approach the problem in a way that we can make free desires happen. There is an international factor that is extremely influential in this situation. We have a situation that Kosovo's problem has come to an extent, and that is why it is an extremely realistic approach for us in this resolution and the explanation that you say is a majority part of the future platform for negotiations. We don't see that argument as an integral part of the resolution. Today we vote for the resolution. The explanation is an explanation. So we think this is going to be, not plebishing that this may be the most successful that we're preparing for further management of this problem, but it is certainly what is new in some way strategy in solving the problem, so we're going to have a situation, that I'm ultimately banalizing the situation, the coach who ran the football team and didn't make a good tactics, so he lost or played unsettled, and the second coach comes along and with the same club wins. I deeply believe that we're going to do, I'm not going to say that we're going to solve the problem for a short period of time, based on this resolution of a new shift in problem solving. What is essential for us from the PUPS, which is in the government's definition, I do not agree with those who disprove it, is of great importance, in addition to everything else, to preserve Serbia's citizens in Kosovo and not only their survival but also further possible prosperity. Another problem is that we may have an exorcised situation in the overall situation, lately as these documents are brought in in our society, which is that it was extorted almost to the end of the public of this document that is tactics, or platform. I'm afraid of one thing. The whole situation has put the negotiators of tomorrow who are in a difficult situation because in this platform, at least what I read, we've highlighted some of the things that we can go to, and the other side knows, and he's going to negotiate with it as a minimum. For example, if you leave the province with this document with your constitution, not the statute, and he knows it now, it is minimum for him and will go further, and we could use the constitution to be in our negotiations the last concession we can make, if I was clear enough and illustrated it. Regardless of all of this, we think that this document is the most comprehensive approach to solving problems and the most comprehensive tactics to address this problem as a platform so far. For this reason, the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10382	The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10383	Dear President of the Republic, the Honorable President and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are sending a clear and important message not only to the local and international public but also to the side with which we are prepared to discuss this political process, and in the interest of all the citizens of KIM. The resolution that we are about to adopt today must first and foremost reflect the national unity of the position of the vast majority of Serbian citizens and all relevant institutions of this country. Today is not a good day to compete in patriotism, to place seductive paroles and party bickering, and even less is a good day to drill into the chest, threats, unrealistic promises and oaths. Today is a day for real consideration of facts, wisdom, tactics, and dignity. The reality is that the KIM crisis is deepening, that Serbs are increasingly living there, that there is no return to internally displaced, that politics has been missing its goals for years. This is the situation most affected by ordinary people living on KIM, and the Stanisic family from Pristina, who was expelled twice in 1999 and 2008 convincingly confirms it. It is clear that Serbia must finally take responsibility for political processes in its southern province and enter a productive dialogue with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. I consider the motion for a resolution an extremely brave and determined step towards starting a genuine and meaningful dialogue on the future of KIM. The absurd situation and the existence of parallel institutions both in Pristina and in the north of KiM has led to the paralysis of political processes. Serbia does not recognise the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, and Pristina does not recognise RS institutions in northern KIM. The situation must be overcome through negotiations and solutions that will allow the authorities' legitimacy in the province's and Serbia's and Albanian sides. The resolution sets out the basic principles for political talks with representatives of the provisional institutions in Pristina, where it is a key principle that Serbia does not recognise or will ever recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Negotiations will be directed towards creating preconditions that the Serbian community and other non-Albanian communities have conditions for sustainability and development in the future. This means that arrangements have already been reached and negotiations are being continued within the framework of this resolution, with permanent dialogue with Serb representatives with KIM. Furthermore, the resolution envisions that all agreements reached contribute to the European integration of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the definition of going towards a comprehensive and lasting solution for Kosovo and Metohija, and to build lasting peace and stability in the region. Serbia's readiness to make further concessions, which must not endanger our national interests, and taking the initiative towards proposing concrete solutions, gives us room for optimism and exit from the offensive we have been in since the start of the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. This resolution gives a framework and a defined direction of state policy for all state authorities, and above all, the government that will be obliged to report regularly to the Assembly on the development of events during negotiations with temporary self-government institutions in Pristina. The width of the framework given to this resolution to the Government is the government's responsibility for the outcome of this dialogue. It can be discussed how much maneuvering space is left to the government by this framework for negotiations. The position of the URS is that the government has plenty of room for productive dialogue and, consequently, has great responsibility for the fate of these negotiations. The sense of negotiation lies in the compromise and willingness of each party to sacrifice some of the goals for the realisation of those it considers a priority. It is clear that in the process that follows, it is not possible to achieve all planned objectives. Something must be sacrificed to keep the deal sustainable. The success of the negotiations is only possible if there is a balance in both sides' gains and losses. We need to be aware of that, both of us and the Albanians. Solutions where one gets everything, and the other loses everything, are not possible or sustainable. What is trying to impose on Serbia by the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina and a significant part of the international community, as a permanent solution, is that Kosovo will gain independence and that Serbia, contrary to international law, Charters of the UN and Resolution 1244, loses some of its territory and sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. Such a solution is totally unsustainable and cannot be permanent, nor would it contribute to stability and peace in the region. Among the two opposing solutions that the sides offer in the negotiations on one side is Kosovo's independence, and on the other, Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia's high degree of autonomy has plenty of room to negotiate and find an optimal and lasting solution. Although reality on the ground is closer to the first solution and is due to high pressure on Serbia, war conflict and violations of international law, Serbia must do everything to keep the minimum of its national interests and dignity in the international community through continued dialogue. Serbia's pro-active stance, explicitly contained in the resolution, proposing concrete solutions to regulate relations in the southern Serbian province, insisting on dialogue with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, has led us out of the offensive we've been in for a decade. The willingness to compromise and additional concessions is not a matter of weakness, but of a demonstration of constructiveness and a clearly expressed will to achieve a lasting and sustainable solution. The resolution obliges the government to contribute to Serbia's European integration. This implies that we get guarantees from the EU that Serbia will not be subject to new requirements that have never been set for any EU candidate country. It is not possible to ask Serbia to recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, as no serious state would ever agree to such a condition. Of course, we commit this resolution to the consistent implementation and respect of all agreements reached with representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. Serbia will push for decentralisation and regionalisation of Kosovo and Metohija and the establishment of an autonomous community of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija that would constitute a territorial autonomy of four northern municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija and other municipalities with a majority Serb population. The competencies Serbia would leave with these negotiations and legislation to Kosovo and Metohija's autonomous provinces in the same way would require the temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina to be defined and admitted to the autonomous community of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. The original competences of the future Autonomous Community would be realised in the fields of education, health care, sport, culture, public information, environmental protection, spatial planning, agriculture, forestry, water management, justice, mining and energy, finance and other areas. The deal would also be defined by the autonomous community bodies, which would carry out defined competences in building mechanisms, which would protect minority communities from majorisation of Albanians. In addition, the agreement must also ensure a contractual relationship between the SPC and the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina with the analog status of the Roman Catholic Church in Italy, thus ensuring that the international guarantee ensures the preservation of Serbian sanctities in Kosovo and Metohija. In the focus of political dialogue, our national interests and the protection of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija must be on the Serbian side. The government's ongoing dialogue with representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and consultations on future agreements will best protect their interests. The United Regions of Serbia will support this draft resolution with deep confidence that dialogue is the only way out of the deadlock we have found and the only way to find a lasting solution to the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, I also want to say that it is very important today in what atmosphere we will adopt this resolution. It's just as important as the text of the resolution itself. It seems to me that the atmosphere we had in the afternoon was not at the level and in some way offended the dignity of this assembly. I therefore appeal on behalf of the URS to continue the session and the very act of voting itself be at a far higher level, given the importance of the decision we are making today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10384	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10385	Mr. President of the Republic, the Honorable Prime Minister, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have indeed had a very busy day. It is my duty to say what are five reasons why DS cannot support the resolution in this, unfortunately, unchanged form, with the hope that the Prime Minister will keep his word and take the secret mark off the platform to know which platform is being called on or at least put it precisely when adopted in the Government, in what form, to know what it is. We're very glad, as you said, there was unity. That unity we don't want to bring down. We're accused of a lot of things today. That's mostly incorrect stuff. We are accused of being insecure, of playing with the fate of Serbs. These are very difficult qualifications without foundation. So we want to, and we wanted an effective way to show whether there are actual rumors that there are two platforms. Are there true rumors that there are two policies and that we should vote for? You will simply solve this matter, Mr. Prime Minister, if you meet what you have said several times in the media and why we have withdrawn our amendment, which is to remove the code of secrecy so that MPs know whether they are voting for the platform recommended by the President of the Republic to the presidents of the parties, the international community, the church, the SANU, the Kosovo Serbs or the platform that you later brought together and which departs from the original platform. We fully welcome that. We just want to make it easier for you as a negotiator, not to be told tomorrow – no, this is meant by that presidential platform that stops dialogue, interrupts the European path, criticises Eulex, requests the arrival of Albania's army, Serbia's armies, etc. That was the reason for me to be absolutely accurate and you can handle it in five minutes, though, you probably have to reach out for an unpopular phone seat. I must say, the first reason, there is no unity between the president and the government, the resolution is empty, not enough is mentioned by our people in Kosovo and Metohija, must be expelled from calling on the platform or made public. The second reason, in the text, it is necessary to place a greater focus on the rights of security, the prosperity of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, which you have somewhat respected through your correction of the text, but not the adoption of our amendment. The third reason why we can't support it in this form, all documents and UN General Assembly Resolution on Dialogue with Pristina must be listed -- you've made an intermediate, you've adopted all the decisions of the General Assembly and Security Council, which is better than what's happened so far, I have to say. The fourth reason, a contradictory and illogical sentence must be cast out, which you told us at our consultations that it must remain, and which it says - we will make concessions, we will not make concessions. We have proposed an amendment that effectively resolves and says – it will make concessions, but not at the expense of national and national interests. I don't see what's going on here, but you said it had to stay. We don't know why. Actually, we get it. The first part of the sentence, Mr. Dacic, is a sentence of the Government, and the second is a sentence of the President of the Republic. That sentence best paints the nature of this document and all the anger, the shouting, the accusing, the pounding, they can't erase it. The only thing that can erase that is confirming your political victory, which you have our support for, which is finding out what platform it's about. That's why we submitted the amendment. We do not accept and will never support President Nikolic's platform, the original one, because it means the end of Serbia's European path, the end of technical dialogue. You can now say that we are against Europe and other fairy tales, no one believes it anymore, and neither is it our turn to defend the President of the Republic, it's unworthy. He has, if I understand the Honorable President of the Republic, a party that is his child, but the child seems to have given up the father, because, as they said, it is buffalo. You see, that's why anxiety, respected citizens, that's why these problems, that's why this noise and rage. The fifth reason, this is a paper with two policies, with us sorry that the president ended up in an argument, and the prime minister in disposition. If, dear citizens, we wouldn't be here explaining the essence of the lack of reasoning, i.e. Significantly amended, according to the prime minister, the presidential platform. I have to tell the citizens that the argument has no legal power or obligation, and therefore, for the DS, it does not constitute a document on which it votes. We wanted to fix the document, the disposition, the basic text of the resolution. You didn't let us. Dear citizens, no amendment has been accepted by the government. I'm so sorry about that. There is still a chance, Mr Dacic, and I am asking you, not on behalf of Kosovo Serbs who have largely voted for the DS, but on behalf of the need for the public of Serbia to know. Please, Mr. Dacic, keep what you promised. Take off the confidentiality mark, so we know which document we're voting for, what we're calling for. Completely civilized, normally we ask of you. Why? Because the policy of this government is politics, at least Kosovo and Metohija, European integration, the fight against corruption and crime, DS policy. Thank you for that. I already told you, I'll do it again. Congratulations, you are now, Mr. Dacic, fully political adults. You defeated a retrograde policy that only received support from the DSS. The government has rejected the presidential platform, the SNS has rejected the presidential platform, the DS has rejected it, everyone has rejected it, and we have come to this absurd situation that as an opposition who has the right to do so, you may not like that right, I understand that, that I ask you to say it publicly – what should we vote for, what is that paper? Is that the paper you listed? Well, we like it a lot better, I have to tell you, but why don't you make that little effort and let us vote for this resolution and thus show a lot of unity? Why is that a problem? We know the answer to why it's a problem. This would reveal that there is a policy of Andric's wedding and Serbian president and government policy. Everything else is shouting, anger, noise, threats. You are – says Mr. Vukic - unworthy, playing with the lives of Serbs. How do we play? By asking people to see what our policy is, what government policy is, what the president's policy is, because they are unique, I trust you, but make that effort to make it nice on paper, to make people see it. Why is that a problem? Otherwise, the resolution itself does not say anything, in the text of the resolution, about autonomy, about the future status of Serbs, about the status of Kosovo and Metohija, and you said you were entering the dialogue, I remember, to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija status issue. There's no such thing. How will the negotiators, i.e. You, strictly hold these resolutions, when the letters are not about telecommunications or energy? There's an explanation, it's non-binding. Maybe tomorrow, Mr. Dacic, someone will remind you of another platform. We want to help you. You may not need that help right now, but people are looking at this and wondering – we don't like DS, but it's time to know what we're calling for. What I'm glad that you finally understood and accepted, this government is unique indeed, if nothing, in having fulfilled the promises of the previous government and all honor to you. Otherwise, Kosovo's theme, many have tried to solve it, there are no positive points in this topic. There is no smiling face with which to go before citizens, whatever you do in Kosovo and Metohija, but we support the course of this government that requires a continuation of dialogue and requires the application of the agreement and requires finding a solution at the green table. We absolutely support that. We support Serbia's European path, not because it is the only alternative, but for now the best. We support every investment you bring in from any country, completely irrelevant. To be clear, we're being accused of everything and everything, but the DS really has a political mission to go to the public and say, this is the situation, and this is the situation, what the government does, what the president does. You know deep down, you're an experienced politician, just like the President of the Republic, for twenty years he's been in this assembly, and the President of the Republic knows that he would intervene in this parliamentary move, to expose the government's intentions, to expose the government's policy, which in this case is two-state, Mr Dacic, two-state. Cohabitation, alone with you, is the wording of the resolution. I think it is your turn to accept the DS amendment, which was the order, you did not accept, requiring the abolition of every step in the dialogue following carrots in European integration. This government tried to put itself through conditions. It's unrecorded in current political practice. You didn't accept that amendment either. This government wants to condition itself. This government wants to condition others in decisions it makes itself. This government doesn't want to solve problems in the right way, it doesn't want to just talk the way it needs to be with the world. This government wants to join the EU. You've filled our ears in the election campaign that we've been doing everything for the sake of candidacy. Is it true? Yes, it is. And what is this? We're doing this all for a date. Well, you don't need that either. You don't have to go to the government either. No one in Serbia needs it. Why should we, our opponents, who are many in Pristina, but also in other capitals in Europe, Pristina is not the capital, who needs our disunity in such wrong, flabby moves, why do you tie your legs when you want to run? Then we say fix it. No way, it's from DS, not a single amendment, not one. We withdrew our problematic amendment, because they promised us -- we'll take down the confidentiality, you'll know what you're calling for. We said, okay, we pulled the amendment. What are we waiting for? Attacks, hate, nicknames most brutally. Yeah, you pulled the amendment, so you were playing? No, we weren't playing. Serbian citizens today see the truth after a long time. The Emperor is naked, gentlemen. Once upon a time, your presidential candidate spoke that metaphor. Now I say, the emperor is naked, but his men took him down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10386	Thank you. It's Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10387	Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Borko Stefanovic, at one point in his exposure, criticised the country's president's policy by saying it was supported only by the DSS that runs retrograde policy. Borko Stefanovic didn't care if he was going to shake the right attribute for DSS politics, it was important for him to say something negative. He missed it completely. Why would it be a retrograde policy led by the DSS when it ran retrograde policy? It means a reverse policy, a policy of turning back. In the 1990s, she did not run a retrograde, but rather led a very modern policy on Serbia's democratic reconstruction. At the beginning of the two thousand years, it led Serbia's democratic reconstruction policy and the EU's movement. In the second half of 2000, she led a policy of doubt and skepticism towards the EU for the first decade, so that, given the EU's stance towards Serbia, she would lead a separation policy from the EU, a detachment from that road, which implies the recognition of an independent Kosovo. All these policies were modern, in agreement with time, not retrograde. They, therefore, followed the rhythm and pulse of time and the EU, if you will, if it's any direction in your policy. Therefore, the attribute could not be given, and it is no wonder that my colleague Stefanovic said so, since his party's policy is such that no attribute can be given to such a policy, because it has never, above all, had a policy in these serious things, the EU and Kosovo. She had only a blind escort to what others had said, above all the EU, so no attribute to that policy, which was not theirs, but someone else's, could either give or be negative or positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10388	The word has Mr. Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10389	Dear Professor Samardzic, retrograde is my political assessment, but it's not a topic. The theme is that I know that you're very sad today because you supported one piece of paper that everyone is now giving up and it's not an easy thing. I know it's not easy for you. The writer gave up, so the students gave up. That's the problem. In fact, I call on the President of the Republic to consider our proposal, to resolve this unwanted situation, to adopt a single paper or almost uniquely, to vote in favour of this resolution by having the President of the Republic influence the Government with his unquestionable authority to remove the confidentiality mark, to let MPs see what the platform is and that we can all vote for it, so that, as our people say, we can call on that platform, that we know what we are calling on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10390	I can't give you my word. I think there's been enough replicas. The word is Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10391	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Republic, the Honorable Ministers, the Kosovo and Metohija issue, of course, is the state issue of a couple of excellencies, and this is, if I am not mistaken, but 11 acts, whether it be declarations, resolutions, decisions made by this high house in the previous period. What is important and obvious is that we all swear to it, but some sincere, and some dishonest, this is not a question of inter-party conversation, foreigning, political maneuvers, this is really a subject that we can understand or understand, to gather, to see from the trees the forest, to achieve as broad a consensus as possible in relation to, unfortunately, the differences that are evident among some political parties here in Serbia. This is a topic that really requires a serious approach, but also a topic that we really need to talk about in a precise, reasoned way, to talk about what the subject is. So, the topic is the resolution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a resolution that is quite sufficient to measure and sufficient framework for what awaits us in a future period of time, during which political negotiations will, of course, be continued at some time at which we will probably have fears of what kind of epilogue will be. But we had two options, or we had to put our heads in the sand and that as some of us are talking -- Kosovo is Serbia and we're doing nothing, or we're going to go to the international arena and try to respect reality on the ground, to respect our governmental orientation and try to bring all these interests into norms in some way. This resolution is quite enough for one such path and what is fundamentally important is that there is no dualism of policy on this issue, that there are no two platforms, nor is it a load of some that can contribute to the serious position of this parliament and the state of Serbia. It is important when we talk about this document that we simply know that it should represent one waterworks, not just another of the documents in the series that we talked about today, but that there will be a document that will really be a positive step that will lead us to a solution that will be both sustainable and comprehensive and full of denials, of course and a lot of compromises, but that is the only way we can go. This is also a document that puts both the Serbian public and the international public to the knowledge that the European integration process is a priority of the government's policy, that the European integration process cannot be separated, nor presented as a parallel process with the process of happening to the Kosovo Gordi node. I think this is a step because for the first time perhaps in one qualified and quality way state leadership has shown unity and the fact that the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the entire cabinet together have proposed this act. So, it's important to tell the truth, it's important that I respect reality, it's important that we respect international standards, that we insist on our foreign partners to respect it, and that we try to make some of what we may have done in some previous historical moments. We used to have maltenes all together against Ahtisaari's plan for the simple reason he hit practically as a plan for this status neutrality. But when you look at some of the solutions in that plan and you hypothetically introduce them into practice that year, what would that mean for this negotiation process today? That's why it's important that we tell the truth. To admit that we are all responsible, to admit and to know that this problem has not existed since the 1990s or since the 99s or since the beginning of any government after 2000. Remember simply the idea of great Albania, Albanian separatistism, the first and second Prizren League. We need to know, simply historical facts, in order to know how we're going to model our struggle to preserve integrity and sovereignty and sovereignty. We've tried through history many models, I think we've learned enough. Maybe someone will say it's too late. I think we need to be optimistic and simply point out that it will never be too late, if we're proactive, if we just take responsibility. It is therefore important that this level of technical dialogue is also raised to a much higher degree, right from the moment this government was formed. The responsibility for this process of political negotiations was assumed naturally by Prime Minister Dacic along with the president of the Republic. I think we have quite rationally approached this process and I think it will be recognised by both EU partners, but of course by those who oppose this, which are representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. How will we resolve this model of autonomy for Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija? How are we going to solve functionally Serbian Orthodox churches, or Serbian monasterys in Kosovo and Metohija? How will we resolve the framework of rights to which, of course, all citizens of this world, including Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, have the right? How are we going to solve the level of their self-government? How are we going to solve all these issues? It will, of course, be the subject of these political negotiations. Pragmatism is a word that is often heard here today, and that is what is needed. We don't have to deal with, I repeat, some party transfer or interparty transfer, spend time on something that doesn't produce effect. Our zero position is this one that is currently real present both in the field and in the international arena, and through the prism of our foreign political position as a country which is who it is. That's why we have to keep all this in mind when we're going on a road like this that won't be easy at all, but in any case it'll be much better if we go at it, but if we try to go back, because it's just not possible to go back. It bothers someone that this resolution doesn't exude some details. It deals with the issue of the framework and the principles for this process of political negotiations, and I see no reason to now enter into details that will only be the subject of some talks. The platform, this one single platform, despite some wanting political maneuvers here to act as some political benefits, I don't know for whom I don't know why, this platform is thoroughly addressing all these issues that will be the subject of some future talks and negotiations. Of course, if those who want to go through norm or through formal legal status want to see reality on the ground, they can do it, but only in one theoretical way. It's not a way that can lead us to a solution. The way in which we would introduce this into a formal legal norm is that, as an epilogue of these negotiations, one constitutional law that would practically treat this issue - transfer of competence. It's something that's only real and only possible in some future period to do. That is why, of course, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this resolution. We would, of course, like to give full support to both the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic for the presented, above all willingness, because this is the obligation of all of us, including them as the most responsible political officials and at the courage shown to face one of these challenges. Also, I want to invite those who may not think the same as we from the ruling coalition to still contribute and support and to see from the trees the forest and to realize that this is not a party issue, but that this is also a historical question, and the state issue is a couple of excellencies. If there is more of us on that journey, it will be much easier for us to endure and to accomplish what we intend. In the end, I want to simply point out because of both citizens and citizens of Serbia, that in addition to the fact that no solution is perhaps ideal, this is the solution that is only possible at the moment. This isn't a road without a return, this is a road that's routed very thoroughly, argumentated, and I'm sure there'll be problems on that road. But if we're dealing with this problem, I think it's an obligation for all of us to approach it in a much more responsible way, whether we're in opposition or position, because the KiM question doesn't recognize one such division, because it's always been a matter of state interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10392	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't say that this paper that represents both the resolution and the platform is something that makes me happy, which gives me inner satisfaction, that the problem that is related to our AP Kim will be solved the way that we would like it the most. That is why I am surprised by what is happening today at the session of the Serbian Parliament, because for the first time since Serbia does not exercise power in AP KIM territory, we do not have a serious and responsible consensus between us who have chosen in the election to solve the problems that are related to KIM. During this session for the first time I also had to hear statements that certain political parties here are performing certain political maneuvers when it comes to KIM, the accusations that this resolution and the platform are being passed because of the start date of negotiations with the EU, and what is the greatest impression on me is, it seems, too, a rejection of responsibility for KIM's fate. Did we who participate in political life, especially those who have exercised power since 5 October 2000, have done everything they could for Kosovo and Metohija. I can say, if they were at least half of what they could, the contents of this paper would be far better. Just to remind you what happened in Serbia during that past period. When there was violence in Kosovo, which had a sprawl of Serbs, in March 2003, in Serbia, who would be Prime Minister, who would be the party's party to form the ruling majority, got out of control. What happened to the previous resolutions that this same congregation had brought? Nothing, apart from the declarative acceptance that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, that we will never recognise Kosovo's independence, has never gone beyond that, and this looks at the rejection of responsibility for all that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. Even some large countries, with great political influence in the world, spoke, personally attended us - determine what you want with Kosovo and Metohija, make the proposal and deliver. We can no longer fight for Kosovo and Metohija from you who are in Serbia. We cannot think better of Kosovo and Metohija than you who are in Serbia. We have never, until today, but a declarative push, what with Kosovo and Metohija, as MPs, had neither from the president of the Republic nor from the governments of the Republic of Serbia that were in that period here. What did we have to do with it? We may have also been able to negotiate with the international community, which then ruled Kosovo and Metohija, but we had nothing, we had nothing to do with, we had no idea, because we were afraid of political responsibility for the rating of our parties, that one such paper that perceives the real facts of the field, we made and delivered to the Assembly and that they knew about it and the citizens of Serbia, who voted for us in the elections. While we were wrapped in one of our shells, in one of our armors, the temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija slowly, but surely they circled their way towards declaring independence between the AP Kosovo and Metohija in relation to Serbia, and this reflects the greatest responsibility of all those who then exercised power in the Republic of Serbia. Since the declaration, it has had to be accepted that the political situation has changed and that we can no longer negotiate with the international community, rather than accept the fact that we must do so with representatives of temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. That's the best we can do right now. In addition to our political action on this problem, let's look at what it has to do with Kosovo and Metohija being part of the Republic of Serbia? If anyone is infatuated that it will be resolutions, declarations, political flossules, they are very wrong. If it is thought that only the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be sufficient, it is also very wrong. In order to exercise the right to lay this right on Kosovo and Metohija, as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, in the first place, the Serb people must live there. That is, for the first time clearly, unambiguously, insists on development, first in security and later in economic and second development of members of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Only in this way can we preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it was a great responsibility for the promoter and the resolution and the platform to start a dialogue, which gives us the right to remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia during a period of Kosovo and Metohija, with full respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, throughout its territory. Those who fear to accept such a responsibility should neither run for the elections nor participate in the political life of the Republic of Serbia. That is why, Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, the other ministers, you have the support of the SNS for this resolution, for the platform for Kosovo and Metohija, because we do not want to participate in one problem, not to solve it at all, and to be ashamed of our actions and not to do so at all, as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10394	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10395	Article 107, paragraphs 1 and 2, President of Parliament, I do not think you have responded, and you had to react when Mr Arsic spoke and when he used two estimates or two sentences that are deeply offensive to this parliament, even if they are offensive to the LDP. In fact, Mr Arsic said at one point that in today's debate he saw no serious arguments against this resolution and went one step further, noting that the motives, I suppose, were among opposition MPs, who participated today in the debate, and thus the LDP also notices the absence, i.e. the unwillingness to take responsibility for Kosovo. I think I even quoted it correctly. Sorry, for LDP, it is offensive, because exactly what Mr. Arsic is talking about, complaining to others that they are reluctant to take responsibility or what Mr. Ruzic is talking about correctly, but a few years too late about how many solutions to Ahtisaari's plan today were great for Serbia or for Kosovo, or for Kosovo Serbs, we talked about 2007, 2008 and were then accused of treason. Also, you have not responded to the fact that Mr. Arsic simply falsifies the political past of this country. Therefore, only those who have exercised executive power cannot be held accountable. A rally outside the building, on 21 February 2008 in the wake of Kosovo's declaration of independence, was organised not only by the Serbian government. Some opposition leaders, including today's President of the Republic, spoke highly of the stage. If in the meantime you have found the strength to partially change your policy, which I welcome and in the case of the President of the Republic, then be responsible to the end, and admit some of these mistakes from the past. Not those who criticise you today, the most well-meaning, as the LDP does, as criticised by all governments from 2004 to this year from the same positions, and in the meantime we have proved right, to accuse ourselves of a lack of readiness to lead a responsible policy towards Kosovo. We weren't wrapped in our own shell, as you said, Mr. Arsic. I'm afraid it was you in some past periods. In a shell or in a badge, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10396	Time. I don't think he's hurt that member. You are, as always, I allow MPs to debate, and you know that in this way you have used more, or to say you have abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica, because if I were to apply the criteria that you have cited as offensive to the LDP, then the president of your party would not be able to speak the word without breaking it. So I absolutely disagree that the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I will certainly not allow Members of Parliament to abuse the Rules of Procedure as a right to replication, although, let me say, you have done it very skillfully, I have no objections. I like to give the opposition's representatives the right to speak as much in this House as possible, and I think that's a good thing, but I ask everyone else to go back to the debate, but I will certainly put this on when we have the day to vote as, say, the possibility of the National Assembly pleading on it. Mr. Samardzic, did you have a replica? (Free Samardzic, from the place: Yes. I'm just trying to establish the basis of your call. Mr. Đuric reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10397	The 27th member was injured in this response while you were answering me. It may not be offensive for you when someone says your political party is unprepared or you personally as a MP to take responsibility for politics towards Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10398	You can't answer me. You can only plead if you accept. So you can't answer, you can point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10399	I think what you said hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's a new breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10400	That really doesn't make sense, Mr. Guric. What you're doing doesn't make any sense, because you brutally abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As president of the National Assembly, I take away your right to do so, because I have it under article 27. Rules of Procedure. So don't abuse. Now, please, let's get back to the debate. I really can't let you go any further, because it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure on my part. Mr. Samardzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10401	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I will not interfere with the image of the past given by my colleague Arsic in his act, but I must mention some facts, which he has completely confused. They'll see why I'm reporting for replication. He said that at a time of pogroms that took place in March 2003, it was foreign to Serbia about the formation of the government. I'm reporting because the government was then formed by the DSS, and its mistakes are material in that it wasn't in 2003, it was in 2004. You must know so much that the pogrom was in 2004. As you get involved in such fine historical facts and details, you should know the next thing you know, that the pogrom was on 17 and 18 March 2004, and that the government was formed on 4 March 2004. Therefore, she could not party to the formation of the government 13 or 14 days before the pogrom. You said "in the time of the pogrom in 2003", which you were wrong, of course, "was partying in Serbia about forming a government". In fact, you wanted to make an impression to the audience that someone who formed the government in 2004, did not actually take care of Kosovo because he was dealing with himself. Your complete picture of that recent past is wrong, but I wanted to show you that you're not competent to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10402	The word is Mr. Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10403	You've injured Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, Mr Stefanovic, and I wouldn't insist on that if you hadn't opened the subject yourself. I suggest you resolve the misunderstandings you have with Mr. Jovanovic. I really don't see the point in explaining to me whether he would have the right to speak or if you wouldn't interrupt him. Speaking of which, you gave Mr. Jovanovic a warning two or three weeks ago when he said the sentence – I...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10404	You can't call on a session that's over. You can talk about this session. Legally, you have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10405	Give me 15 seconds. You've done an injury today. So, for the same formulation, you did not give Mr. Vukic a warning today when you verbally warned him to speak differently to the MPs. He said, "I address the MPs exactly as they deserve." The same formulation was used by Mr Jovanovic several weeks ago in relation to you, and you gave him a second warning. I see inconsistencies in that. Therefore, if you want to be a credible president of this Parliament and to establish some standard of conduct, then the same standard for Mr Jovanovic and Mr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10406	If you want to go back to that session, I can tell you that after my warning, Mr. Vukic stopped talking about it, and Mr. Jovanovic didn't. That's the fundamental difference. Anyone who behaves the same way after my warning I'll give a warning and I'll be very consistent with that. So, as far as that goes, I ask the MPs to return to the essence of the debate, not to allow this debate to escape in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Too many topics are important for us to bother Serbia's citizens for too long. Of course, I allow the debate to take place on the subject. MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10407	The same member who advertised the previous speaker when advertising the Rules of Procedure, because competence cannot be measured by a lapus that is related to the date, but is measured by works. From the SRJ to the collapse of the same, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the collapse of the same and the declaration of independence of Kosovo, these are facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10408	National MP Slobodan Samardzic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10409	It's not about the date, it's about the two dates you've been wrong. So the two you mentioned were wrong – both in 2003 and 17 March. That's why you're incompetent, because you don't know the facts. Therefore, things are completely clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10410	National MP Judita Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10411	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm advertising members 27th and 110th. Rules of Procedure. I really think you're misusing this Rules of Procedure and I think you're taking away the word of the MPs. In particular, you took away Mr. Đurić's word, even though you had no conditions for it under the Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure, among other things, and Article 10, which states after which the actions of one MP, or the President, may be taken away from the speaker. So, not only are you very subjective and unselective, you're going very lightly and elegantly over certain terms used here and pronounced. You've gone very elegantly over the term "suspecting amendment" spoken of by Mr. Vukic. You didn't warn me. I followed closely. You've gone rather elegantly through the qualms that have been discussed here, and you've punished certain MPs for one word, which is a lie or a false representation or a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10412	I'm sorry, Mrs. Popovic. I ask the MPs, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We must have enough dignity to listen to every speaker. I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10413	Mr. President, you really insult the dignity of this assembly and insult the dignity of the MPs, especially the opposition MPs, when you selectively apply the Rules of Procedure. It would be good for you to have a slightly different, much more objective approach when opposition MPs speak, as well as those who belong to the ruling coalition. Note that the Rules of Procedure should be applied, but should be applied to everything. I would ask that when you take away the word of an MP, take care that you can do so, but only on the basis of article 110.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10414	I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. Article 27 defines the way the President of the Assembly can take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. In today's debate, if I can say it as something I've seen, I'm equally criticised by the ruling coalition MPs and by the opposition, which I think is the balance you're talking about, and I think it's the job of the president of the National Assembly. My job isn't to be popular here, it's my job to take care of the execution of Rules of Procedure and the order of the Assembly. As long as the assembly session runs, I think I'm doing a good job. The Rules of Procedure, whose adoption I did not participate in, defines whether or not the President of the Assembly has violated the Rules of Procedure. It hasn't happened yet. So far, the National Assembly has decided that the President of the Assembly has not broken the Rules of Procedure. Since I've never broken the Rules of Procedure, I hope to continue to hold a session like this. We continue to work and move on to the list of registered speakers. The first registered speaker is MP Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10415	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I will not say anything new if I repeat that the JS Parliamentary Club and this time, as many times before, when other resolutions and declarations have been adopted and the topic was Kosovo and Metohija, will support this resolution that speaks of the principles to be managed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia in talks with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. Whether this is 10th, 11th or not, I don't know what declaration or resolution on Kosovo and Metohija is not important, but it is very important that we have shown once again, not only to citizens living in the Republic of Serbia, but also to citizens of Serbian nationality, who live outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as it is said in the dispersion, as well as to other citizens in other countries, one major dissension and disunity when it comes to the fundamental national issue, which is the struggle to return the kidnapped territory of the Republic of Serbia, under the framework of the Serbian state. Why is it so, whether there is something in the genes of the Serb people, in tradition, history, I don't know and I'm not the one to judge, but once again in the work is the folk saying that has been circulating with Serbia for centuries, and it is said – don't let God agree with Serbs. I am sorry that one small part of the MPs in the National Assembly, some for political reasons, some for other reasons, do not want to prejudge what other reasons are, but apparently these are very good reasons, do not want to support this resolution and vote for it. Unique Serbia has repeatedly shown that it is a state-run party and that it will always vote for those documents, for those resolutions that go after it to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Serbian state. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, many big words have been spoken today, but it is not time to say big and big words, today is the time to go into big and big acts. When I say big and big deeds, I mean, trying to save what's to be saved can be in Kosovo and Metohija, that those remaining Serbs and other non-Albanians, who respect this country as their own, are somehow protected so that they can move freely, that their children can go to schools, cafes, have fun, that they can get jobs. They simply live like all citizens living in the rest of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This resolution in that part offers us a few suggestions, principles. I've talked about it before, but I'll start in a row and I'll stick to the resolution. The 1st position under a) says we will never and under any circumstances recognise Kosovo's independence, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija and JS agree and has repeatedly repeated that there is nothing that the international community can buy us to support Kosovo and Metohija's independence. There is neither material nor any other good nor any giving that I believe and a good part of the MPs of this National Assembly will be able to convince that for these or those reasons, or for the main reason, we should recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Secondly, what is very important in this resolution is that the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Dacic and the President of the Republic of Nikolic, will always consult Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to certain talks, to reaching certain compromises and agreements that the rest of the people could live normally. It is also very important to say in point 3) that the Republic of Serbia is not ready to make further concessions that could lead to the threat of its national and national interests. We have so far made several times by some other previous governments, often made certain compromises, certain concessions, in return for getting something from the international community. What we got from the international community, you can tell. We received acquittals for the executioners of the Serb people, not only from Kosovo and Metohija but also from Croatia, and we received that we had to deliver every police and military general to The Hague, only because under oath they took, they defended the Serb people where they were appointed by the state summit, to go to defend the Serbian people. Should such concessions be made in the future? I am sure on behalf of the Unity of Serbia that there is no need and I am sure that both the President of the Republic and this government will stand firm behind this, that there is no compromise on the state interest of the Serbian state. Finally, what is very important to us, MPs, is that the resolution stipulates that this National Assembly must be informed by the President of the Republic and by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what agreements are being reached, that we MPs can, too, tell those citizens who voted for us, and let them know what the highest state summit is doing, and when it comes to the Government and when it comes to the President of the Republic. Unique Serbia remains firmly convinced that we will have to see in the state of Serbia what this country's national interest is, what is a red line below which at no cost, no matter who is in power, we must not go. Whether we agree, whether it is in our political programme, whether it is our political position, but as other countries, we must know what is the national interest of the state of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, the Serbian people and any other citizen living in the territory of the state of Serbia, respects its Constitution and its laws. If that's not how we do it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to use one term, I'm afraid we're not writing well in the future, and so let's agree on at least one thing, to be unique in this, to protect the state sovereignty and integrity of the state of Serbia and of Kosovo and Metohija. A unique Serbia stands at your disposal and will always vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10416	The President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have denied myself many rights, even the right to respond to insults. That's why I don't mind being offended, even though I'm a guest in your home. Even in terms of words, it's over. That's where I'd like to quote Shantic, I guess he didn't want to offend you, he says, "My grandmother, I wasn't afraid of the living when they were for horror, let alone dead dogs." It wouldn't be good if it were different. After all, no one made me win the impossible conditions. For twenty years, I've been an uninterrupted MP. I fought, I was cursed, I was beaten, I was brought out of the O.R., but never, ever, when it came to Kosovo and Metohija and when others suggested platforms, even if I were opposed to them. Why did I propose a platform and then a resolution? Because no one should have done it by now, and it should have been a long time ago. Am I happy that you will adopt a resolution like this? I didn't. Would I be happy if you had adopted a resolution that would represent 100 percent of my wishes? I wouldn't, it'd just be a list of good wishes. I would have had all night to answer, but I will try to cut short, as it seems easier in Serbia to be against Serbia than for Serbia. The mentors don't like it. You keep saying in the assembly that we stole at the vote for the Constitution. We live in a country where some MPs claim that we voted when we declared the Constitution, and by this constitution they go to elections, they form parliamentary groups, they have privileges, they live better than other Serbian citizens. You're asking if this was supposed to be Rug's offer? I traveled 17 times to negotiations with Rugova in Pristina. Professor Ratko Markovic led the delegation. I was a member. We spoke to him once, but the Albanians then had the support to go the other way, and we, if you remember, were under sanctions, in isolation. We didn't have any support. You were talking here about supporting me. I don't need political support. I'm not a politician. I'm just the president of Serbia. You are minimising the EU's influence. I'm not in love with her. But how did DOS come to power? Because the EU imposed sanctions on our country at the time and could not survive. Had it been possible to live better under those sanctions, DOS would never have defeated those who were in power back then. Some suggest that we get off the European path immediately, and did they open up other roads while they were in power? No, I don't. We must not anger the EU and open new roads. Why erase EU-related attitudes when we have committed to never recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence? If it is opposed, we will give up on the EU. I am not ashamed of the compromise I have made with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't accept the charges that we've taken a defensive stand, if that means we don't have a position. We've got a position. The law on essential autonomy has not been passed so far. Now some are accusing us of not having that law. I have not missed and I reject the accusations that we are handing over Kosovo for EU membership. That's almost insolent, Mr. Professor. This justifies the fact that in eight years some people were not allowed to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue, except for one train that drove one day. If the platform has maximum demands, what exactly do you want? I've lost a lot in my life, and Kosovo can't because it's not mine. I can remove myself from this process, lead it as you have done in the past 12 years and remain calm, as for my life, Albanians will not reach Kragujevac and be restless because they would be in the King's and Vranj's. I'm wearing my cross. Bring, gentlemen, the MPs, at least a cross. Show the power of the Serbian parliament when resolving the Serbian issue. Listen to you, I am grateful to God that some of you have not been able to decide on Serbia 1389, 1804, 1912, 1914 and all our years. I feel like laughing and crying after criticizing the first platform that it's unreal, unreal and populist, in order for you to show unity, I liken it possible, and then you attack that platform and ask me to return the one you said you'd never vote for. My sons and I fought for Serbia, my grandchildren, your sons, your grandchildren won't have to if you're willing to help me. Completely calm, clear conscience, I'm handing you my realistic idea of a vote. I didn't want to be president and run away from responsibility until the end of the term. Some of you will probably never accept that I am your president. I don't care. All that matters is what the citizens think, whether I justify their trust. I'm not afraid of that court because I work very hard and honestly. I'm just afraid some of them didn't realize that Kosovo and Metohija didn't stay with me or them. Only torment is inherited around Kosovo, and a good host does not leave behind trouble, problems and unresolved issues. Dismissing DS objections. I would like to read to you the three positions of my platform that the government has accepted and did not include them in the resolution, first, second and last: "The government of the Republic of Serbia will, in order to protect state interests in further agreements with the PIS in Pristina, start from any solution, whether general or any specific issue, on the temporary, transitional or final status of Kosovo and Metohija, on the position of Serbs in the province or on the protection of Serbian, religious and cultural heritage, must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the UN Security Council Resolution 1244. In the context of the so-called A technical dialogue on energy and telecommunications, which is a condition for starting the EU negotiation process, the government will not allow for a change in the situation on the ground in favour of PIS, a weakening of Serbia's negotiating position in high-level political dialogue and the potential destabilising of security opportunities." And lastly: "This political platform for talks by representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia with representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government or PIS in Pristina, the government adopts on a proposal from the President of the Republic of Serbia, with which it assumes joint responsibility for fulfilling it." I guess it's better than this: "I use this opportunity, dear Robert, to point out once again that for the Republic of Serbia the Integrated Management Agreement means that Eulex will have exclusive executive power at administrative crossings 1 and 31 and will manage all issues related to customs duties on behalf of Pristina. Also, for the Republic of Serbia, the Integrated Management Agreement is a guarantee that Serbs in the north will have an unlimited entry and exit through gates 1 and 31 with Serbian documents and tables, until otherwise agreed in the implementation process." I wanted the papers of the platform and the resolution, which I also proposed, to be acceptable to most, because this is yet to be negotiated with Pristina. With this attitude in Belgrade, we do not need Pristina. There's someone here to strengthen her position. If you have a problem with even a cross, vote against, you only cheer Albanians. It's just, the kids will ask you once they grow up -- why didn't you help when it was hard, why did you stop the Serbian car uphill? Insomnia will be the least of the problems that your conscience will cause you, those who have consciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10418	The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10419	Dear Serbian citizens, the respected Serbs living in KIM, the respected Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a platform about KIM appeared in December, I was very pleasantly surprised. For me, it was then an end to the pervasive policy of the previous government towards KIM, but also the start of a new political dialogue with Pristina, which will protect the interests of Serbia, Serbs in KIM and the Constitution. All this was not in previous talks between Belgrade and Pristina. I was truly happy when the President of the Republic directed the platform, in order to gain the consent of SPC, SANU, but also to representatives of Serbs with KIM both north and south of the Ibar River, and fortunately, that agreement was then won. What happened after that? The platform, meanwhile, has been amended, has been declared a secret document, and has dropped its representation in the Serbian Parliament. Obviously, it was due to external and internal pressures. At a January 9th session, the government adopted a motion for a resolution that we are discussing today. Point 1) states that the Serbian government is authorised to continue implementing, implementing already reached agreements and agreements with representatives of Pristina. This means that this resolution is in function, the legalisation of previously reached agreements in Brussels. The resolution aims to give this Assembly the legal basis to the Serbian government for further implementation, i.e. the application of the agreements reached. The government has already made a border between Serbia and Kosovo, as it has done so by applying the Integrated Border Crossing Management Agreement, defending that a serious country must apply everything agreed by the previous government. That's not true. A serious state, a serious country, must protect its borders and its people. It was not mandatory for this government to apply the agreements reached in Brussels because they do not have any legal basis, they are not even prescribed and are not in accordance with international law. The only agreements signed are legally binding, and these are only initialled by one of the Serbian government officials who just initialled it, which does not oblige anyone. The government has decided that in order to get a date for starting negotiations with the EU, to do everything the EU asks Serbia to do. What does it mean to get a date for negotiations for Serbia? You'll say 170m euros a year. Yes, but is Kosovo and Metohija worth just that much? Is it only so worth the Serbs with KIM and Serbs who escaped from KIM? This resolution is in fact a resolution for Eurointegration, not a resolution on KIM. This clearly says point 1) of Mr Resolution's position, which I quote - talks with PIS representatives in Pristina and any agreement reached, should contribute to the European integration of the Republic of Serbia. This is really not good, because in translation it could mean that this authority is willing to sacrifice both national and national interests to join the EU. Point 3 says -- the Republic of Serbia is ready to make further concessions to overcome the current situation in relations between the Serbian and Albanian people, but is not said to be further concessions. Guys, how many concessions? All four Serb municipalities in the north of KIM were fenced from such a resolution. In an open letter to the President of the Republic, they protest that the resolution is contrary to the text of the platform presented to them on December 22nd in the Serbian presidency. They also complain that they were promised that the platform, in the original text, would be adopted in the Serbian Parliament. They say, quote – continue negotiations at the technical level and... (President: Time, Mr. Pelevic. ) Allow only 30 seconds, please. They say, I quote - the continuation of negotiations at technical level and implementation, therefore, the application of the agreement, is a direct recognition of the independence of so-called "independence". the Republic of Kosovo. Mr. President of the Republic, I address you as president and as a friend, and I have seen that you have called me on a TV show as a friend, not because we are friends, but because I believe that the original platform was very good, that today it is on the agenda, I would vote for it, but not for this resolution that does not protect the interests of Serbs on KIM, which does not protect Serbia's interests, but rather, damage the interests of both Serbia and Serbs with KIM. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10420	The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10421	Thank you. As you have heard more than once tonight, this is the 11th time the National Assembly of Serbia has passed a resolution, some document, a declaration about Kosovo. When the result is looked at, it sees what Prime Minister Dacic just said, which is that Serbia's sovereignty in Kosovo has fallen significantly and has increased statehood, attributes of an independent state of Kosovo. Why did that happen? It happened because all the documents we had now, and tonight is not something better than them, dealing with surface issues, consequences, not cause. I have a habit of saying that someone who can use someone else's mind is smart. I have seen it occasionally, both the President of the Republic and Prime Minister Dacic do so, but occasionally. I have proposed and asked that I be given the opportunity to give them some views that, unlike what we've been listening to tonight, can solve the most important issue in a permanent way, which is the protection of our living life living in Kosovo. I propose that, as others have said, that the entry that the National Assembly of Serbia cannot recognise an independent state of Kosovo. That's the only thing we all agree on. I add that we cannot recognise a government that will lead people like Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, who are responsible and not convicted of significant crimes, so they cannot guarantee that the goals that are in the interest of both Albanians and non-Albanian live will be achieved. I'm looking, i.e. I propose that KFOR forces, KFOR forces not determine the mandate, but stay in Cyprus for a long time until Serbia joins the EU with Kosovo at the same time. It is known that joining the EU means achieving standards that give equal rights and obligations to all citizens living in one place and which address the fundamental conflict issue that exists today. I also suggest that the talks in Brussels not only discuss with PIS, temporary institutions of self-government, but immediately request that the policymakers who led to this situation be present in these talks, which is the United States, France, Great Britain, Germany, Italy, etc., because their presence and attitude depend on whether an agreement will be reached, which is that the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo meet those standards on which the EU rests today. When that happens, it will be quite irrelevant where the border is located, as on both sides of the border, such as in the Benelux countries and the EU, will be equal living conditions. There's an old Roman saying "kill Bene, kill Patricia" - where I'm good, there's my country too. That's what we have to do and we can achieve it. I propose that all of these items that I have said in relation to KFOR, in relation to EU entry, to achieve standards, we must return to the table of questions, standards before the status. This was launched by the Western European forces, and then left before anything was changed in terms of standards and non-Albanian animals, they recognised Kosovo's republic. Since they allowed the hanging brat to do whatever he wants, they are obliged to invite him to stick to the order and order in which they rule in Europe and the EU. What I said should be... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up... Prime Minister Ivica Dacic's warrant and authority to conduct talks in Brussels. It's minimal and maximum at the same time. It can't be less than that, and it could be if it's more possible. We must remember that this hour it is clear to everyone that we will never again have the status we had before 1999, but we can achieve this that Serbia's 200,000 refugees to return to Kosovo and live as they once lived and as they do in the EU. Around the EU... (President: Mr. Trnavcievich, you've been talking for six minutes.) I had an understanding. It really doesn't make sense because of the other MPs. I always enjoy listening to you, but you must understand that other MPs will ask me for the same rights I gave you. I'm giving you ten more seconds to finish your thought, but I'm asking you to really be ten seconds. We are all talking about when they will see us and whether they will welcome us into the EU, and I have not heard from the Government either from the President of the Republic or from this Assembly that someone is talking about when we will raise productivity, because if we live and work in this country as we do in the EU and we will live as in the EU. That's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10422	Thank you, Mr. Trnavci. MP Dubravka Filipovski. Before you go any further, let me just say that the order of speakers has experienced a small change concerning MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups and who will be moved, because they have been mistakenly placed as those who have not stated whether they are in favour or against. After they've made their point, they'll be moved up. It's a little shift and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10423	Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Parliament Speaker, respected citizens of Serbia, I think today's debate has shown all our diversity towards such an important resolution, respecting all our political differences, but it is very clear that the attempt of some MPs has failed to reduce the importance of this resolution in any way and to try to create an atmosphere in parliament that there are two policies within the ruling coalition. I think this resolution has very clearly shown our state policy guidelines by clearly defining the minimum of state and national interests with one basic objective of creating a guarantee of a man's life for all citizens of KIM through future negotiations. The explanation of this resolution is a clear view that during the negotiations, it does not deviate from the framework defined by the state platform, and the essential part is in the resolution. The NS Parliamentary Group believes that this resolution and the continuation of the negotiations can achieve a fairer solution for KIM than we are now offered as inevitable, because we believe that what we see today in KIM does not correspond to the civilization achievements of the 21st century. When I say that the resolution clearly defines the minimum of our national and national interests, then I think first of all that it defines very clearly in its first position the protection of Serbia's territorial integrity, as well as its first very clear way of seeking autonomy for the Serbs at KIM. As some of my colleagues have also stated the reason and tax under 1, 2, 3 and 4, which is why they will not vote for this resolution, I will present the reasons why we from the NS parliamentary group will vote for this resolution and what this technical political dialogue aims to do. First, it aims to create the autonomy of the Serb municipalities community, which will be a guarantee for the survival of Serbs at KIM. Secondly, achieving concrete results on specific issues. Third, the desire to achieve a comprehensive solution to the welfare of all communities in KIM. What is very important, this resolution is not exclusive. It provides the necessary space for any compromises, but these compromises no longer apply to only one side, the Serbian side, but also include the compromises of the Albanian side. It is true that this resolution is Belgrade's biggest concession, in fact, essential autonomy for Albanians and recognition of the legitimate institutions of theirs at KIM. It is also true that for the first time we make it clear – we recognise your institutions, but we ask that you recognise the institutions of Serbs at KIM. We ask you to acknowledge the autonomy of Serbs in KIM. That's our minimum we're not going under. The international community has reminded Serbia of reality countless times. This time we are very clearly reminding the international community of the reality of Serbia and Serbs in KIM and there can be no solution. Therefore, the resolution is a document which represents a comprehensive examination of the overall situation with a clear message. I think it is very important in this discussion to say that Serbs are for no reason afraid that their institutions will be abolished. The resolution clearly says there is no abolition of any institutions until a solution is reached. I cannot mention this discussion, and this is what the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic said at the UN Security Council session, that two years have passed since the report by Dick Marty, in which cases of extraction and trafficking of human organs have been detailed and that there is a constant attempt by Albanians with the KIM to adopt our monasteries and culture and that is precisely one of the very important reasons why we must continue negotiations and vote for this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10424	The next speaker is Carol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10425	(The National MP speaks Hungarian. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10426	The next speaker is Zvonimir Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10427	President-in-Office, Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, gentlemen of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with debate on this very important topic that is fateful for Serbia, but also for the Western Balkans, and above all for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, I would like to remind you that I am coming from the central part of Kosovo and Metohija, more specifically from Gracanica, or the settlements of Novi Badovac. Gracanice symbolises the resistance of efforts to declare Kosovo's independence and Metohija, so I can rightly say that I am very well referred to the opportunities and circumstances under which, in a very complex situation, life is taking place in this part of Kosovo, but at the same time I am well aware of the developments in the entire KIM territory. I would like to stress that the Serbian people, who have been selflessly sacrificed for the survival of Cosmet for more than 13 years, expect a lot from this government and thinks it is high time for something concrete to be done now for a more sustainable and normal life south and north of Ibra. For more than 13 years, Serbs in Kosovo have had conditions unworthy of the lives of civilized people. Fear, anxiety, and suspense persist. There are no periods in these past 13 years that could be said to have been something more favourable. True, today there is no such thing as physical torture and open violence, as has been happening almost all previous years, but facing the efforts of Albanian authorities to achieve Kosovo's independence is a new dose, not only of anxiety, but of constant burden with an inevitable question -- what will happen tomorrow? How to define the latest developments? Among all members of the Serb people, there is an open dilemma about whether and how it can survive in Kosovo without losing identity and preserving the rights and freedoms that even members of the smallest national groups in Europe and the civilized world achieve in Europe. Not to mention the permanent pressures to accept the institutions of the Kosovo authorities that we must admit are building their own state on the territory of the Serbian state. The Serb population in KIM still does not have adequate guarantees, neither in terms of freedom of movement and security, nor in terms of realisation of property rights, in the achievement of equal status, nor in the case of the fate of kidnapped, missing persons, and it is entirely impossible to return more than 230,000 displaced Serbs of whom most of them barely make ends up in some of the place of temporary stay across the Republic. Here it is necessary to say that it is of paramount importance that the guarantee and responsibility for resolving these issues be borne by representatives of the international community, and above all by KFOR, Eulex and the EU. What is a guarantee and possible encouragement for the survival of 135,000 Serbs in KIM is the organisation and operation of educational institutions in Serbian language, the provision of health care and the operation of local self-government. Measures to maintain educational and health institutions and the work of other state institutions and local self-government, undertaken by the new government, need to be strengthened with the encouragement of Serbs to KIM. Whether we want to admit it or not, while the government's concerns for the cosmetic Serbs are at stake, we will fight for survival in Kosovo. Otherwise, in addition to the firm determination of the largest part of Serbian residents to stay in KIM, if they succumb to the pressures to shut down these institutions, which Albanians and part of the international community call parallel, we will have a new extreme unfavorable outcome, i.e. leaving with KIM. I would like to express my gratitude to the state and its institutions for the pledge to fund almost 50,000 citizens of the Serbian nationality in KIM in different ways, while respecting the reality of the difficult economic situation in which the state of Serbia was found. In terms of the overall concern of the Serbs at KIM for their own destiny, a very important issue is being raised in the current dialogue that has a new dimension, as it is being led with the participation of the top representatives of the government of Serbia and the government of Kosovo, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Hashim Thaci. I must stress that this is not the first meeting with representatives of Albanians, because such meetings were also in Vienna in 2006 and 2007 when representatives of our authorities, across the way, sat in Vienna. There have been other, true, simultaneous meetings and handling of our officials with Pristina officials. The new approach, raising dialogue to the highest political level, opened an urgent debate, which was announced immediately after coming to power by the new ruling set-up headed by Republika President Tomislav Nikolic and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. I think it is necessary now to focus on five basic principles for the negotiations, which we will adopt in the form of a resolution on the government's proposal. I note that even in that resolution, not everything can be nailed, especially because life and negotiations are living matter that is susceptible and complementary, provided that the basics are not questioned. It is normal that the protection of national state interests is a cornerstone on which this resolution is based. I want here to support Prime Minister Dacic's commitment to openly and boldly enter the decisive phase of resolving the questions of the Serbs' long-term lives in Kosovo. I see this step as a decisive and courageous state-run move, which will be to the fullest extent, with respect to the existing reality, based on efforts to find those solutions that will contribute to more sustainable living conditions in Cosmet without recognising Kosovo's independence. Special attention should be given to the open possibility of the permanent presence of Serbia's state institutions, and in order to improve the situation of Serbs in all parts of KIM, whether it is the displaced south or north of Ibra. To be clear, I fully support the approach of our state leadership that, with more than a decade of passive relations between the former structures, the government is now taking an active position and proposing solutions that will be brought into line with the international community and the Albanian side. I do not find it acceptable to advocate the frozen conflict and status quo, as the Serb people in KIM are harassed, exhausted, with a constant sense of hopelessness, uncertainty, which can produce far-reaching adverse consequences for their further survival in the southern Serbian province. I also think there is no room for the application of the Ahtisaari plan's solution, because it leads to the full installation of the Albanian state in all the pores of Kosovo's reality. Waiting and hesitation can bring nothing good, and life and existing relationships do not endure delay. This concerns security aspects and the regulation of personal documents, freedom of movement and procedures at administrative crossings and the attempt to introduce Kosovo's educational programmes for the Serbian educational institutions. For the fate of the documents in front of us, it is important that it extends consensus here in parliament with a rational approach expressed by Prime Minister Dacic, who is also in the strongest fire, because he represents Serbia in conducting negotiations with the Pristina side. Of course, support and acceptance are essential to the basis of the document. Talks that will take place on January 17th, like all others who will follow will be very difficult, even painful, because they need a large dose of thoughtfulness and patience, determination, from one, but it also needs hearing and feeling for the existing reality on the ground, on the other hand. I have no doubt that the government of the Republic of Serbia will responsibly and consistently, with the highest possible measure of the needs of the Serb population in KIM and the state of Serbia, while respecting the existing objective situation on the ground, lead the negotiations in the best way. This must take into account the demand arising from the need for progress in Eurointegration. To express myself in sports terms, the game cannot be won unless it is entered with the necessary energy and the desire to achieve good results. A parallel with this is the need for all ministries and all state entities, and above all the KIM Office, to be fully committed to finding solutions that will contribute to improving the position of Serbs in Kosovo, with the involvement of all individuals and potentials available, both among the Kim residents and among those of the Serb people who have left the KIM area under duress. To be clear, they understand best, understand the problems facing Serbs with KIM. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, listening to today's debate, I have no doubt about the unity of the government and the President of the Republic. Is KIM a state issue of national and vital interest? Yes, but unfortunately not for everyone, not for all the political options. Individuals are acting in this home today and tonight as if we were in 2001 and 1999, that there are no Albanians at KIM, that there is no EU and that there are no world forces that have recognised Kosovo as an independent state. We can't forget that we spent 13 years on KIM. Serbs from KIM's space in this home serve individuals and individual organs only for a declarative statement, for verbalism, are very often abused, manipulated and humiliated. If I were to now, given that we all found this to be the 11th resolution and if we were to take the analysis of all the resolutions that have been made, it would take us a long time, and I would just remind myself of the resolution of July 31st 2011, which was made in this House, the conclusions where it is being established, confirmed, bound, etc., but without reason. The way, method and procedure of adopting this platform, what is important and what is a positive thing about this resolution, for the first time in the adoption of this resolution were the Serbs with KIM. I think a good part of their demands in the conversation and in the agreement were accepted and in the realisation of all agreements is in the resolution -- the opinion of the Serb representatives with KIM will be heard. What is important, and what is of particular interest to the people of KIM, is that for the first time through the resolution, through this leadership, it clearly defines state policy and a clear definition towards Serbs with KIM, towards the EU and towards the Albanian side. Also, what is positive is that this resolution provides for a solution and care for all Serbs in KIM both north and south of Iber. A positive proposal, it has stood in documents and platforms before, especially in 2007, since the adoption of the Law on the Community of Serb Municipalitys, implies the adoption of a special law that would systematically solve problems in KIM, as well as the adoption of returnees' laws. I have a serious remark when it comes to the resolution, on page 2 of point (a), I quote, please do not take this time: "that the Republic of Serbia particularly insists on: (a) establishing an autonomous community of Serb municipalities in KIM that would make territorial autonomy of four municipalities of the north of KIM and other municipalities with a majority Serb and minority population. "For example, Gracanica, Strpce, Gora etc. I think that from this place, from this home, from this document we send a very bad message and an unacceptable message to Serbs, above all from the Moravi area, from the municipality of Kosovo Kamenica, Vitina, Gjilana and Novo Brdo, where it lives, survives and lasts 40,000 Serbs. That's why my proposal yesterday is on the board and today it's here to cover that region, the sea end, and that's where the Ranilug gets the status of the municipality. Also, there is no Metohija, Klina, East, Peć, Gorazdevac, Dry River and Decani, where the solution would be the East. When it comes to the prizren end, the solution would be Big Hotch. The content of the reasoning and the proposed resolution, with the expectation that during the dialogue, the Serbian Government will primarily take care to ensure that better solutions are made for, as we see from the area of KIM and the central part and the maritime area, our survival with the help of the state and this resolution. First of all, ensuring the security of freedom of movement with permanent pressure and requirements towards the international community, education and health in the Serbian state, property and legal security of Serbs, protection of the cultural heritage of Serbs in Cosmet, resolving the fate of kidnapped and missing persons, creating the necessary conditions for the sustainable return of Serbs to KIM, financing Serbian institutions and economic strengthening of the Serb community with the creation of conditions for providing jobs for 13 generations of high school students and those who have completed colleges at KIM. Only if conditions are created for the application of these solutions will the survival of Serbs be ensured, and while we are present at Cosmet, until then the care and presence of the state is possible, because without the Serbs in Cosmet we would have nothing to talk about, nor hope for any favourable outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10428	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10429	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, cannot support this motion for a resolution because it is not based on reality and is also in sharp and complete contrast with Ahtisaari's document, which has already been widely accepted by the vast majority of Kosovo citizens and a considerable majority of Kosovo Serbs. I believe it is a proper commitment to support the assembly declaration to continue the initial Brussels dialogue. Unnecessarily burdened with content that has long been exceeded. Noting the political motives of such a rejection of Ahtisaari's document, I will also reiterate my position on this occasion, not only the theoretical possibilities that allow this document, but also the current practice that is taking place in Kosovo, I will confirm the expectations of the individual collective rights of non-majority communities according to the world's highest standards, and municipalities with Serbian majority population have a very high level of substantial self-government. For national minorities in Serbia, and especially for Albanians in the Presevo Valley, achieving these standards is a goal that would seek to achieve, but the fact that we are currently far below the level of the rights they exercise in Kosovo, I mean Serbs and other minority communities. Kosovo's leadership has very good co-operation with the legitimate representatives of Kosovo Serbs who have the Deputy Prime Minister and several more important ministerial resolutions, and I as the only legitimate representative of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley not that I am not consulted at all when preparing this resolution, but my suggestions have been ignored in full, when the president of the co-ordination body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, and I am here representing the legitimate representative of the area. This strategy of ignoring Albanians in the Presevo Valley is even more drastic when it is known that the highest state leadership, when military forces are visited in the Presevo Valley, is unable to decide to visit local self-government in Presevo and Bujanovac. The president of the state was in Presevo and Bujanovac these days, but also did not visit local self-government, and for a moment he said, perhaps I did not understand well, that he advocates that there are no Albanians in Vranje and Kragujevac. I say there are, because there are also in Belgrade, in Subotica and in almost all municipalities in Serbia. I don't see what the problem is. However, I think the problem is the lack of such dialogue and the lack of development projects sends bad messages, that then state levels are only interested in militaristic projects, only for special forces that are in the area all the time, and they are much weaker in these still civilizational development projects, which are the future for all, including the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. I really think that in this case someone mentions and mentions the panels that are rising and above Lucian, with the Albanian population, which has raised the gendarmes all the time during the performance of the works and is still following the facility, as we have, in parallel, and there is now a largely updated memory of the panel of the murdered Albanians in the conflict. There are murders in every conflict on the one hand and on the other. It takes a special point to discuss what prompted the Albanian rebellion at the time. I wouldn't be taking up your time right now, but it would be practical not to use hard words and threats instead of having a dialogue and solving problems with dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10430	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10431	Mr. President of the Republic, Prime Minister, ministers, co-workers and colleagues, who had a little better time watching our political life, could hardly have noticed that almost nowhere in the political struggle was so little that it was almost nowhere in the political world and so few ideas and visions were released to the people as much as in us. Political parties have their own pasts and traditions. They were created on behalf of the achievement of certain principles and fought on behalf of certain programmes. Today all these programs have faded and the whole struggle has gained a narrow personal character. This explains the complete insignificantness, inadequacy in our political life, and a terrible confusion in ideas. That's where it comes from that Serbia has radicals who won't hear of the general right to vote, Democrats who don't even accept the very idea of State intervention in relations between capital and labour, as conservatives who are anti-militarists and reactionaries who are tasking themselves with destroying the monarchic feeling in the germs. In this way, we have come to Serbia in a unique position to have parties with names that have parties in the West, but without spiritual relatedness and ideas with them. This is what Skerlic wrote in the beginning of the century. Today's debate shows that we're not very far from it. The partying of the worst kind, just so it can be explained, after all, this Skerlic's good observation from the beginning of the century, that the former Milosevic's spokesman, this is not a valuable court but a factual state, Mr Dacic, says that we are small to influence the great, that we must accept the rules of the game. People from Milosevic's party say the Ahtisaari plan now looks better than it looked before. The gentlemen who were wearing badges, and now they're not wearing them, they say -- we couldn't open this problem, we were afraid for party ratings. The president of the state boasts that he has been an MP for 20 years. He mentions other people's children, aware that his children must be satisfied with his 20-year-old parliamentary outcome. What happened in those 20 years to you citizens? How do you live? What happened to our lives? I guess there's a responsibility for 20 years of politics, and in those 20 years there were authorities, not just opposition operations. And when it was opposition, it was a ruling policy. So, what are we talking about here? Statehood or foreigning? What does the DS amendment mean? To end negotiations, it is an amendment, and to give up the European idea. Foreigning. It's just a statement from the prime minister that the government will accept that. It's a joke. I'm sorry, it's not serious behavior for such a big subject. Don't laugh.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10432	Sir, I'll stand by, no hard words and no offense, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10433	What word? For us, Kosovo is a state, not a party issue. You know how it's different from being a state-of-the-art stranger? Then when you're not taking care of the ratings, then it means you're thinking about the state. When you're taking care of the ratings, you're a stranger. Does what we've been saying since the founding show that we take care of the ratings? No, that's exactly it. What were we saying? We were saying that Ahtisaari's plan was a good basis for further negotiations. We were saying that Kosovo is going towards independence. We've been on duty traitors all this time. You've set our rooms on fire. Now you've come to the position that you who were in the past and in the current government are accusing each other of treason. You think that's why we're here and we're glad? It's not. Are we glad that all of you have accepted what the LDP has been saying for years, more or less, honestly or dishonestly? That's what we're happy about anyway. If you were a cynic, but we're getting into trouble right now, I'd say, what are we discussing here today? Look, in six months of this government, Prime Minister Dacic took advantage of the Borkov and the previous government and he's doing pretty well with the negotiations. He's got IBM, an integrated transition, he's taken the text off the star, he's arranged for liaison officers. I would say, with this kind of momentum and good relations that the Prime Minister has established with Hashim Thaci, that we would really come into a situation that we might even get a date. Then suddenly the platform. There's a platform coming up. What's the target of the platform? That's why the DSS colleagues are honest. This is not about Kosovo, this is about Serbia's further European path. Someone wants an anti-European force, but only a few are brave enough to say it openly – we do not need an EU. Among others, there are those who think so, but they won't say. There's a platform that actually needs to try to stop getting a date. Why is the date important? Because it's the date of that border after which it's no longer back. It's really a non-refundable process. A candidate is not in itself that nonrefundable process, and the date is. That is why we cannot vote for this paper, because for us, the explanation is as important as the text of the resolution itself, because in any future attempt to challenge any agreement of the general principle of the resolution will not be able to give a clear answer whether it is in accordance with the resolution or not, it will only give an explanation. That's why this is one rotten compromise by the ruling majority, which apparently rocked well on this issue in an attempt to patch those holes up. We could look forward to it as an opposition. I guess every opposition is looking forward to a fight by the government, but I'm still bringing you back to what's called the definition of state-of-the-art behavior. It is in Serbia's interest to get a date, as it was in Serbia's interest to win the bid. Did the LDP support the previous government? Yeah. We have to tell the truth here. I'm sorry, this is a rotten compromise. Resolution and reasoning would be like a compromise between monarchs and Republicans, which would agree that the state be a monarchy, but to be elected in the elections. It just doesn't work. It's nowhere to be found. That's why I remind you, that everything we've said, you can do it, Mr. Dacic. Certainly if Ceda Jovanovic met with Thaci, Belgrade would burn, and when you meet Thaci, peace and quiet. If Seselj were politically active, he could do it even better than you. Hence is the platform that has emerged, an attack on Serbia's European path and no care for Kosovo, and it should be known to the citizens of Serbia and Serbs from Kosovo, because if that were the concern you would take care of Serbs when they were negotiations with Thaci in Vienna, and then politics was agreed state policy both Tadic and Dacic and Nikolic, then with the badge and normal Kostunica. What did you say? More than autonomy, less than independence, and that was a policy of frozen conflict. Who wants a frozen conflict in Kosovo? Well, whoever wants frozen Serbia on the European path. Because what was more than autonomy, less than independence? A situation created in 1999 when Kosovo became an international protectorate and Serbia lost its sovereignty. Prime Minister Dacic says the other day -- Serbia has no sovereignty over Kosovo. That's true, he's been gone since 1999. He who wants to freeze the conflict wants to freeze Serbia's European future. It's the one behind the platform. That doesn't mean the government is pro-European. Why? Where's the dispute? We and those of you who accept our policy, as well as the previous government, are being unfairly implemented, you cannot promise everyone in Brussels, and in Serbia pump nationalism, search for traitors, play patriots. It is a patriot who wishes well to his people, who wants his people to live, that his hospitals be good, full of drugs, machines that work, that schools be full of computers, not Polish toilets, that his roads don't have holes. It is a patriot, and that is only possible in EU membership. That's why it's a responsibility not only to change your mind, Mr. Dacic, it's nice that you've changed your mind, but it's a responsibility to convince those you've convinced for 20 years otherwise they'll change their minds, because it'll be much better for you than for us in LDP. When we tell those who voted for you, for Nikolic with a badge, etc., that it was wrong, you have to explain to them that it was wrong, because when we tell them they won't believe us. That's the responsibility for the damage done. That's why it's not okay when you say it – it doesn't matter what happened, it was, we move on, we move on, there's no going back. All right, let's move on, but we're not gonna make it any further. What do you continue to mention of Resolution 1244 as some guarantee of Serbia's territorial integrity? Which you never read and explained, but we can say it 17 times, when Nikolic or Dacic, say it once, that people will understand what it says in that resolution. It says that at that moment when the Kosovo Resolution is adopted, part of the RJJ is part of it, and that in the future there will be a final solution through political dialogue that will certainly not be it. This dialogue happened, under Ahtisaari, and it ended as it ended, and now we're where we are. When we told you – use these negotiations to secure a better position for Serbs, you said – you are traitors, you want an independent Kosovo. When we said, the late Drnovšek, the president of Slovenia said that Serbian monasterys should get extraordinary, you said – he is for an independent Kosovo. Now they'd give anything to get it, and unfortunately we'd get crumbs. In that sense, we think that the responsibility for the previous policy, the previous policy that has led us here and which is depicted in 11 declarations on you that voted in those declarations, and you accused us of not voting for them and that we are destroying unity. I'm sorry, the destruction of unity on wrong politics is patriotism. Imagine that LDP also voted for all 11 declarations. Would Kosovo be in Serbia now? If the declarations adopted by the Assembly depended on Kosovo's fate, it would have long been in Serbia, and Serbia would be unitary and possibly almost to Tokyo. But that's not up to it. Real policy is something else, and we have been warning you all along that reality, acceptance of reality depends on the life of Serbs in Kosovo, Serbs, because Kosovo is as Serbian as it is, and among you there are many who think it is better that there are no Serbs in Kosovo, and that the flag of Serbia is on the Curse, between Kosovo and Macedonia. It ended in 1999, Kosovo will only be Serbian to the extent that the Serbs are there, and the Serbs will only be there to allow them to live there. Playing, manipulation with Serbs will drive them away from Kosovo. Perhaps someone's goal is that there are no Serbs in Kosovo and are not advocates of the great Albania, only among Albanians, there are obviously among Serbs. It is not the interest of people living in Kosovo, Serbs or Serbia, it may be someone's interest that would want instability in these areas. So what we're talking about today is not about Kosovo, the prime minister is going to see his partner, he'll agree, hopefully also the energy agreement and telecommunications, there's a key agreement on the postal number. It will depend on whether we get a date, it will depend on whether this government lasts until autumn or will fall by then. We're always ready for the election, but today wasn't a chance to talk about parties, it was a serious debate. We think, as we have previously contributed to this serious debate, we have given it today. Somehow, how can I tell you, the President of the Republic obviously doesn't like them both, they both went out, they held a press conference, so said Mr Nikolic that the platform adopted by the government, as she said - had a bit of a thaw. Maybe it's a game of words, I've rounded up the edge, but I'd say after all this discussion and applause, it seems to me that the farewells were sent to my former president, and we watched carefully when you didn't clap, I'd say that this platform "turned Tomica." You know what, in the end, we obviously don't have much luck with presidents as Serbs. The one before was run by the government, this one wants to tear it down. Somehow, I guess we're going to get one president who's going to behave normally, and first of all, not in my opinion, it's not normal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10434	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107, paragraph 1, has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, not to mention that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been wronged and violated because you cannot speak offensively, LDP gentlemen, about the President of the Republic elected in the direct elections. When you're at least in the second round, you can, let one level, let me say, skip a nice education on one side. On the other hand, he is not the former president, but is the current president of the Republic of Serbia. You have to take care of that, and it'll be at least five more years. Deal with it already. As I said in one statement, for the first time, you have a president who is also your president. Not the president of a political party that serves as president of the state, but the real, essential president of the state. When you realize that, then I don't mind you talking about a president.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10436	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Arsic, it might be easier for everyone to perform in such an original edition. You know there are some rules in life that go beyond day policy. One of them is, among other things, the one who obliges every decent man to leave his children out of politics. What we had the opportunity to hear from the President of the Republic, with the crouching and running away from responsibility, was sufficiently offensive. Yet we abstained from commenting. We felt it was our obligation to our society and that it was punishment enough that after the President of the Republic, Tomislav Nikolic, says Borislav Pelevic. The LDP parliamentary group has not demeaned the institution of the President of the Republic at any time. This is what Tomislav Nikolic did with his behaviour, because he defined himself to be silent all day and to finally say that he cannot give Kosovo because it is not his. This is what the President of the Republic's Platform has done, done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which you are the strongest individual from the SNS. Don't ever think you can teach any lessons again. If you think you can do it, perform in a real uniform, with a badge and a undercoat. That's what you've been doing for years. Then we won't answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10438	Thank you. The word is Zoran Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10439	Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10441	Replica. So, I wasn't talking about President Nikolic as former president of the state, I guess that was clear. I said "forgiven applause to your former party president," that's what I meant. Secondly, when it comes to my relationship with President Nikolic, it certainly is my President, as it is my Constitution, although I am against him, unlike you, who brought him so, so you often violate him, but we don't talk about it. You see, I will never tell you about President Nikolic what you said about President Tadic, and that's the difference between us and you when it comes to home-schooling. I will always tell President Nikolic what I said about President Tadic. You who said that about the previous president, what you said, remember, you're the last one to say, don't touch the president. That's how I never talked about the last president, and I kind of did. So I'm in the past, so I'm going to talk about this, and that's consistent with home education, and that's polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10442	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10443	Replica, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic mentioned me several times, because Mr Ostojic should know that when I spoke about Boris Tadic, I spoke about the president of the DS and that is the fundamental difference between the president of the Republic and the president of the party, because by the Constitution, the President of the Republic reflects the unity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and cannot be the political figure of one political party and at least its president. As for the original form, I think we have already absorbed this issue and I would like to see Mr Cedomir Jovanovic in his original form, while he was head of the DOS parliamentary group again and see him in that original form when he was Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question, if he had any rights that he used, why does it challenge me or any other MP here? I'd like to see his original again, at least one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10444	Thank you. The word has Zoran Ostojić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10445	Mr. Arsic, I don't think you understand Cedomir Jovanovic. He did not say that he would like to see you in your previous form with your undershirts and badges, but said when you changed your policy, you changed your image, when you became the euro radicals, then you should always behave according to that new image. When you forget and go back to the past in speech, in a way, in an insult, then you should adjust your uniform code, and then you wouldn't fit. We now answer to you because we deeply believe that you want to stay in power and after the next elections, aware that you will remain in power if Serbia wins the bid. The fact that your stay in power is bad for Serbia is the price Serbia obviously needs to pay, because the start date of the negotiations is good for Serbia. We're consistent all the time, we talk the same, no matter how much our rating hits. We want Serbia to move forward. You are now, you have most, but our obligation is to say that there is a conflict between the president and the government. From our point of view, it's better that the Government, let's say, has come out stronger at this point and the negotiations will continue with open arms, but we said that we were afraid that a mine was put into account for negotiators, or future agreements, and that it could collapse at some point, if the relationship of power changes. So, Ceda Jovanovic hasn't brought you back to the past. It's good to change. It's a good thing you're all talking about how reality should be respected now, etc. We only urge you to try to influence those you've affected with the previous policy, because you can do it better than we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10446	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10447	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, respected ministers of education, since you are the only one left in the hall as a representative of the motion, which of course does not diminish your importance, here I will speak in my original edition although it is some problem for some MPs who spoke before me and with all their capacity of home education, since the MPs have even succeeded, speaking of such an extremely important topic, to touch that too. I am one of the MPs in this House who patiently attends this scheduled session today from the beginning, all the way to this moment, and I have come very carefully, firstly, with the hope that we will discuss one of the most serious topics and the most painful problems in this country, which is so-called. a matter of resolving Kosovo and Metohija. From the first moment on, until now, I will leave this session of parliament with one very unfavorable impression, and perhaps my impression is not so important, because I am a politically marked person, how important the impression that Serbian citizens are carrying from this session is. I'll remind my distinguished colleagues how this session began. This parliament, the highest legislative house, not only the highest legislative but also the House of Representatives, was entered by the president of the Republic of Serbia as one of the initiators, i.e. the creator of the Platform, as one important political figure in each country. What the public saw is that part of the parliament stands up to greet its president, no matter what his name is, while one, fortunately, the smaller part that remains to be sent text messages, telephones. Some do not surprise me with their political behaviour, but I was surprised by fellow MPs who often call for sovereignty and constitutionality in their political address to Serbia, including on this motion for a resolution. I was surprised by colleagues who were up until yesterday when another person came in, also the president of the country, who continued to show their attitude towards the state of Serbia and to show their attitude towards parliament. That's why a lot of MPs have spent this precious time showing up for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 106, that there is not enough respect for Parliament and whenever they were personally injured, we do not address each other enough with respect. We attended, instead of talking longer about the very essence of this resolution, or the strategy the state proposes to the negotiating team of Serbia, and we spent time in some kind of Freudian analysis when someone recognized in which sentences in the history of this country -- whether it was led, whether it was called or not, which really does not interest the citizens of this Serbia, as we as self-centered persons, politicians at all, called at some point. Of course, the impression from this session will be very unfavourable in the public of Serbia, and should not. Today, to draw attention to colleagues who have been called to education, to bonton, to the past, to the undercoats, and I don't know what, and trying to be funny, but today in this House today is not a question of humor but of the seriousness of what we came here for this morning at all. To draw attention to those who will speak after me, today there is a motion for a resolution on the basic principles for political talks with the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that the statement on this proposal in parliament, which is not only the most legislative body, but to remind you, is the most representative body, because here we represent citizens of Serbia and not just members of our parties, and it is important for several reasons. First, I believe that one of the most important reasons is that, after a long time, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to Parliament a single act laying down the basic principles for further talks and resolution, as the people say, of KIM. I must note, to tell the Serbian government and to say that it is a very brave political act. The government very bravely opened dialogue with the public, several weeks ago, today dialogue with MPs, not for dialogue, but apparently the government is looking for the greatest support for its proposal to the legislative body of this country. I point out this because the previous basis for negotiations with Pristina remained a state secret for this parliament, or maybe they never even brought it to the government, which we heard today from the current prime minister. Besides, we never have any proof of that, unless the evidence is what appeared in each and very closely controlled media in 2010, which claimed that the government had actually brought these principles. In my view, the goal of this resolution is that Serbia wants to show that at the beginning of the next negotiations, which will take place in a day or two, will fight for itself and not for others, as it has been most of the time. We are all witnesses here, someone attended the government session, someone has other information that was held at the government's session on January 9th, indeed confirmed unanimously, which is what I want to underline, a state-run approach, or a state-run policy on KIM, as well as what seems to be bothering someone here, about the further course of Serbia's Eurointegration. Obviously, whether someone liked it or not, there is unity in the ruling coalition on all the most important issues in this country, regardless of all the effort, spin doctor to convince the public differently. What does spin doctors mean? This can be confirmed by the foreign minister what it means in diplomacy, how important and dangerous it is, and those who have not been engaged in foreign policy professionally so far, let them take Mr. Zivorad Kovacevic's textbook on the skills of negotiating diplomatic negotiations and then read how dangerous these aspirations, spinning the government's disunity on this issue and the president of the state have been. Unfortunately, today in this House there have been amateur spins from individual MPs on this very important subject, and that is even an attempt to propose some amendments, which is, normally, our parliamentary and business rights – five hours of "rape" Serbia, if I may even take the right to call it that at all, but let's say that I pulled the parallel between the book of Michael Liz "Serb rape" and what was happening today in this important topic in this House, where we waited five hours for one of our spinners to finally withdraw his amendment and stop harassing Serbia, because he failed to prove that there was no unity on such an important issue. The seriousness of the political situation in Serbia that our country is currently in, and is in a serious political situation and all citizens of this country, imposes the necessity of this unity and imposes the necessity of political stability. I think it would be good for all of us, no matter what political parties we belong to, whether we are the government or the opposition, that this necessity of unity is achieved in this respected home, no matter what part of the session has been marked by controversial tones, the least I would say is dissonant, from individual parliamentary clubs, which I can regret only to find out as someone who really thinks that if in something we need to achieve unity, that's the question of solving the KIM problem. The resolution proposed by the Serbian government is the first, I will give such an assessment, a serious state-of-the-art move that Serbia has made after many years, because with our political resolution and our strategy for achieving the state and national goal, which is certainly to preserve the integrity of the state and enable it, as stated in the resolution, a better life for all Serbian citizens, by joining the EU. Why is that still under confidentiality? That's what diplomats know, and everyone who's been involved in the negotiation process, and there's this in foreign policy textbooks that deal with the skills of negotiation, why it's also a very important thing. Besides, there's been a lot of discovery in the explanation. The greatest values of this resolution are this very essence, which is what is pointed out and reiterated that RS will never recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, that the Serb community has the right to live in peace and security and that Serbia is seeking a mutual and comprehensive solution to KIM and what is very important and courageous of this government is ready to make concessions to achieve the above-mentioned objectives. The sure value of this resolution is a provision stating that any agreement reached in the negotiations must also contribute to Serbia's European integration. Serbia should fight to achieve its right, to be a member of the EU, and on the other hand to fight within the limits of its opportunities to survive our civilization and Serbian culture in Kosovo. I was surprised that no one mentioned that segment of the resolution, because how much this struggle to preserve our civilization and Serbian culture in KIM is a significant witness to our diplomatic battle at UNESCO. This was the last time in 2011 when we prevented Serbian cultural heritage from being declared culturally good for Kosovo. To remind my distinguished colleagues that in Kosovo there are 1,500 goods of Serbian spiritual treasure, including Great Decani, Pećka Patriarchy, Saint Archangel and the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška, Gracanica, etc., that I do not retain your attention which has fallen significantly. I note that these are the best guardians of the religious and national identity of Serbs in KIM and that they prevent their existence from ending history whose witnesses we witness every day. Any attempt to alienate the Serb heritage in KIM leads to its assimilation and loss of identity, guaranteed by the international community and the EU, which often closes its eyes to such attempts. The preservation of our civilization and culture within Europe where, by a deep conviction, it is the place of cultural, geographical and economic certainly must not be in any contradiction, and I think these two concepts, and the two specifics of Europe and our civilization and culture are in no conflict whatsoever. It is obvious that Belgrade, or the RS government, is expressing its firm stance on this resolution to continue negotiations, only this time the current government wants to know whether there is a different side to dialogue with in this process of diplomatic skills at all, because dialogue needs two sides either way. Finally, the question is, who can be against such a defined resolution and objectives, which want to be achieved by it? Is it someone who, not only think about this Parliament, I mean much wider, who does not want KiM to be part of Serbia or someone who thinks it is not necessary to respect parliament and inform him about the further development of talks with parliament representatives or who thinks it is necessary to reduce the importance of unity in the defence of the state interest reached in the government on 9 January and who, to a greater extent, will be confirmed in parliament today? I accept that there are also those who have certain political excuses, or political reasons why they are against something. That is why I think it would be better for the Assembly to stand behind this resolution as much as possible and for the votes of MPs to give greater power to negotiators, and the negotiations continue, as far as we can see, on the media, on January 17th. That is why I call on MPs of all parliamentary groups to accept today's resolution of the government no matter what political option they belong to and by unequivocally vote we support the government and the negotiating team, to support the resolution as the only real and good chance of continuing Serbia's quest to preserve it in KIM as well as Serbia's goal, as stated in the resolution, to speed up the integration of not only Serbia but the entire Western Balkans region in the EU. Accordingly, SNS MPs will today or in voting day support the RS government's resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10448	Next reported for the word is MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10449	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of Serbs from northern Kosovo, I have the honour to say, given that they have given support to President Nikolic's platform and sent a letter to President Nikolic himself saying they are against this resolution. Why? For the reason that President Nikolic himself said that the platform for which they agreed was simply rounded, no longer the sharp edge or to say that it was numb. Why is that? Is it primarily because of the influence of members of the government or because of the influence of international friends, we remain in the future to see. What is important and important to say is that this resolution is primarily a resolution to get a date for EU accession. That's true and that's what we all feel and see. It represents what DS members say is that this is a continuation of a previous policy which also thanks the Prime Minister, that this effort has been strengthened by setting the border between central Serbia and Kosovo, which is the famous fusa of the notes downloaded and that we have received a nuclearus called the liaison officer, and in reality it will mean first of all the opening of the diplomatic representation. What we can say on our part is that in this effort, first of all, the government itself sees a pathological desire to join the EU, where we can hear that people from the authorities say that they cannot understand that their children cannot live without the EU. In order for their children to live in the EU, Serbian children with KIM should live in a monster state, not to say they should live in the so-called. "Yellow House." Where's the human solidarity? Where's the Serbian solidarity? If we need to remind ourselves of the words of Djur Jaksic, who says – we Serbs are not, we are not brothers or you are not Nemanja's strain. What is also important to say is that it is talking about painful concessions when it comes to EU accession, because for God's sake Serbia will stay hungry, it aims to show our unreal desire to meet in an alliance that literally fears. This part of Serbia has never been hungry. 20 kilometers from here, from this home, there is Vinci, there is the seat of European civilization and culture, and there is literally a letter from here. Hungry people aren't able to write a letter. Also, we had the opportunity to hear from senior officials that they simply had to sit with Albanians at the negotiating table, because for God's sake there is me. Since when and how has the problem of Kosovo and Metohija become culinary, not to say the catering problem? I hear from the representatives of the current government that they are running, so-called second half. It's not true, because most of the people of the current government and members of the previous government, so it was in the first half. In addition, the president of the current government signed an agreement with EULEX, which simply creates a border between central Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. We also heard from the government's representatives that, for God's sake, Serbs have made a terrible mistake that they haven't made their institutions in 13 years. One upside down logic. Should Serbs have become, as Albanians, separatists, simply split from Belgrade? 'What we, in our own way, can say, is, I want to convey here a message, primarily to the Serbian Prime Minister by the Kosovo Serbs, that he has no blessing that during the negotiations in Brussels, he is trading with the institutions of the Serbian state, precisely those we have been fiercely defending for 13 years, for the price of getting a date to start negotiations on the EU. I want to pass on a message to Kosovo Serbs who say no customs revenue is of no interest to the Serbs. Serbs want to return to the Serbian state tax system and we do not want to sell the state for customs purposes. What's important at the very end is to say, the other day I read Saint Simeon's Jews, normally in the present language, which occurred 800 years ago, and nothing would have been unusual if the American ambassador didn't tell us that we Serbs had the right to use our own language. After so many years, should the people accept their language, and American ambassadors whose influence on political developments in Serbia is very great.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10450	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10451	I will respond briefly to the findings made by Mr Jaksic. I find them absolutely politically incorrect. You have no right to say that. I don't trade in Serbian interests. I am negotiating on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with those you have negotiated with, Mr. Jaksic, with whom you sat at the same table. What have you achieved in these conversations? What did the Serbs have out of those snotty words of yours? You're talking customs. Did I read to you when customs began to charge? In 2001. Where have you been? You weren't interested in Serbs in the south, were you? You're only interested in the north. I didn't set up a customs payment. Customs doesn't pay. You want that, too. That's right, Mr. Yaksic. I want to go and hold a cabinet session in Pristina tomorrow, but I can't. I can't. Can you? Don't force the people into collective sacrifices. You have the right to sacrifice yourself personally, but don't force the people without telling them what you're going to do to protect them. I'm talking about serious things. I'm not talking about the store, as Mr. Jaksic says. What store? For the starting date of the negotiations. What kind of date to start the negotiations? Do you think the condition is ideal now? You think the situation is such that we have to fight to keep the status quo? What are we waiting for, Mr. God to solve our problems? I wish all that was possible. Don't tell me about Kim. My party, whose leader I am, fought a war for KIM. Don't interfere, because that's the way it is. That's because it is. You beat the fact that he waged war in the politics election that he was a war criminal and that you wanted to join the EU. How do you now teach another lesson that someone has set limits today? Who set the limits? Do you pay customs when you cross? So how do you talk about boundaries? What happened on the 11th? Has the regime changed? Don't lie to this people. Secondly, I want to tell you quite frankly, how long will you say that without Kosovo there is no survival of Serbia? How can you say such things? What does that mean? If Kosovo is not in Serbia, or we do not have sovereignty over Kosovo, or territorial integrity, Serbia does not exist. What about these other six, seven, eight, nine million people? (Sinisa Kovacevic, from the place: It is a soul without body. ) That's right, Mr Kovacevic, but Serbia was a soul without a body for five centuries under the Turks. We haven't lost a big thought about Kosovo. Old Serbia. Where old Serbia was once, there is no longer much of the Serbian people living there today. Serbia's soul may have moved to other parts. Could it be the Serbian Republic of Serbia's Piemont today? What do you think you're going to do now because you have local ideas that are inconclusive that collectively because of you, you're going to sacrifice seven million people? He won't. I'm not saying I won't, I'm telling you from experience. Don't set goals we can't reach. Let's not fight battles where we're gonna lose. Let's fight some battle we'll win. What is so unacceptable about this proposal for you that you just told President Nikolic that we will hand Kosovo over for the date? How do we turn it in? For what? Has President Nikolic suggested that there is no recognition of KIM as an independent state? Did he propose to form a Serb community? Did he propose to pass a constitutional law on essential autonomy for KIM and in accordance with the Serbian Constitution? What's out of the politics that you've been proposing before? You had platforms to go with. Are you responsible for not filling your platform? Are you responsible? Did you have the platform you went with? Who did you negotiate with in Vienna? With Thaci, is it true? Who was the president of Kosovo then? Has Ceku been Prime Minister for a while? Did you negotiate with him? What are you talking to me about right now? Don't lecture me, please. So you've been negotiating with them. Thaci was also in Ranbuje. Speaking of which, were you headed by the Serbian government when KIM independence was declared? What have you done? What, we held an emergency session of the Assembly and concluded for us that it was absolutely unacceptable. We held a molebdan, held a rally, burned the embassies, broke down the kiosks, and satisfied Serbia's national and state interest. We carry the constitution in front of us as a shield, but that is not enough, unfortunately, for the Serb people who live on KIM. KIM may have more Serbs in the south than in the north. What conditions do they live on? Is that what you're interested in? Did they have to accept everything you're talking about, customs and personal documents and license plates? What have we been doing all these years? You attacked Milosevic, in 1999 you lost the war, but at least it achieved Resolution 1244. You failed to keep that Resolution 1244, so shut up. So these are very serious accusations, Mr. Jaksic. I am not establishing a border towards Kosovo. Kosovo is as mine as yours. Also, I haven't negotiated with anyone for the first time in history with someone I'm negotiating with about Kosovo. Nothing new has been agreed, except for the liaison officer who is based in the EU mission, is that a problem? Is there a problem? We have a NATO liaison officer. After all, we didn't vote, ladies and gentlemen, in early 2000 for Euro-Atlantic integration, as you all voted in the DOS together. So I absolutely respect what you're saying. I had a meeting with Serbian municipalities, everything they asked for, I realized. You said yourself you didn't want to pay for the customs of Pristina, right? Are you paying customs? You don't pay. But wait, there are other parts of the Serbian people who pay there. There are at all other crossings except for these two. Who's to blame? You kept quiet about it for 10 years, because you couldn't realize anything better. What are you going to do? The Force of God does not pray. Let me ask you one thing. What did you not order, when independence was declared, if you said - all means will we fight to defend territorial integrity and sovereignty? What the Prime Minister didn't then order, along with the President of the Republic, to mobilise, so that we can apply all means to defend territorial integrity and sovereignty. Do you think geese are the best tool we have? No, territory defends itself by force. If you don't want to, then don't make the people, that the people of collective error pay with their blood, and in the end we'll leave them at bay. I guess that's why we're going to make some kind of deal and some kind of solution. You say in advance that we aim, you say now – negotiations are a betrayal of Serbian national and state interests. Then what did you participate in this betrayal of all years? Some of you have negotiated with these Albanians. Let me tell you, the more you negotiated, they were getting stronger and stronger and more independent and more independent. After all, the government determines and leads foreign and domestic policies. I'm not asking you to support the resolution to justify yourself. We bear responsibility for this policy and bear it. The people of Serbia should be convinced that we will never do anything that is not in our country's interest. And what's in the country's interest? You'll let different opinions exist. Your concept disagrees with the concept of most parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that is the essence. I don't want to fight or anything, but I don't accept that you call me a traitor. You know that concept has failed. After all, in 2000, our SPS targets Kostunica in Kosovo's Mitrovica eggs, calling him a traitor. So what? We lost. So don't do anything that's gone wrong. Don't deal with questions, don't be surprised, you organized meetings where you called this government a traitor government, you don't have the right to do that, because it can only be your opinion. You can't speak for anyone else. Of course, I do not judge and judge that I am always right, but the story of having decided to give Kosovo for a date, for the EU, that we have established borders, that this is a resolution on European integration, absolutely this resolution is almost similar to what we have adopted and in your time, that implementation recognises and accepts the independence of these agreements, I think there is no grain of truth. After all, ladies and gentlemen, if you think this government is not doing its job well, file a motion for her shift. Maybe it doesn't matter to someone when you tell them he's a traitor, it is to me, because my party has been on a pillar of shame for 20 years because it defended Serbia and Serbs in BiH and Serbs in Kosovo, etc. We were arrested by the party president and taken to The Hague because he defended his country. Now you're supposed to talk like that about me, as if we're about to realize something that can't be imagined that anyone from our party can do and won't. So, I apologize if I react, I can't react, I can't nod my head and turn my other cheek when someone's telling the truth, neither can you. Mr. Aligrudic, let me ask you-- did you maybe release Albanian terrorists from prison in 2000? Did you happen to have them amnesty? Did you release the responsibility of those who bombed Belgrade? Why didn't you arrest Solana when he came to Belgrade after 2000, but you lifted his verdict? Did you go to meetings with Madlen Albright for the destruction of Milosevic, along with everyone else? Yes, it is, Kostunica. (Free Samardzic throws out of place.) Wait, so you weren't even at DOS, were you? (Free Samardzic throws out of place.) "Madlen Albright was... (Free Samardzic throws out of place.) Here, there's Velya, maybe you went with Velya. So it is not correct to deal with this Serbian government in this way, because in Serbia there will never be a more national government than the one that is now. Your government that was then wasn't national enough. Because if it was national enough, I'm sure she wouldn't have kept the whole thing I was talking about. We have accepted all these amendments that we have agreed today. We also accept amendments to the KIM Committee. I don't know if I should read those amendments. Mr. Samardzic, I didn't answer the line. I'm a proposing officer, and I can pick up whenever I want. Don't you, Professor, solve the problem. You've cooked them enough. First you taught the students to go to the EU, now you need to get them out of it. You were looking forward to the date, when it was a feasibility study... We accept the amendments of the KIM Committee and they become an integral part of the text and there is no need for us to plead. Also, the government made a decision, based on what we had today, at the request of several parliamentary groups, unrelated to the DS and from the way they want to vote, that's not what I'm interested in – a confidentiality mark has been removed from the Platform. As I said, the platform that was adopted at the government session is in 95% of the text the same as the one that's in the explanation. But since there were doubts by the DSS and by DS and some others, whether there was the same text or not, simply, we felt we needed to do the same gesture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10452	National MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10453	Thank you, Mr. President. Art. 104 and 106, harsh lies were made by a ruling majority MP, but I'm not going to do it. Basically, what was said, we wasted five and a half hours for nothing. With great pleasure, on behalf of the DS, I can say that we are extremely pleased with the fact that the government has respected our request, or perhaps it is not ours, as the Prime Minister says, but the fact that a confidentiality mark has been removed from the Platform that is in our hands and that the public will be given an insight, from which it is seen that there is absolutely nothing unacceptable about it until then. It opens up the possibility of DS voting for this resolution. We will do so, because it is shown and definitely and determines that all the harmful parts, those who call for a break in dialogue and the interruption of European integration are no longer in this text, nor are there opportunities to condition our negotiating team in an inappropriate manner. We are very pleased and congratulate Mr Dacic's government on the courage and opportunity to make a clear, efficient political and any other deviation from harmful policies and harmful proposals, which was seen not only in your previous presentation. Well done, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10454	Replica, Dr. Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10455	I'm reporting because I've been quoted on two occasions in the final presentation of the Prime Minister. He said I told the President of the Republic that you were teaching Kosovo for the date. I really did say that, but I didn't tell the President of the Republic. I told that to all of you. I stand firm in that you really teach Kosovo for the date, by March of the month it will be around to get a date, and if you don't finish, you won't get a date. We'll see about that. Several sentences about this confusion that is constantly being met in connection with negotiations led by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Not that you, Prime Minister, remember so briefly and don't remember that time, do you? At that time, the government of Vojislav Kostunica held negotiations with the provisional institutions of self-government, not like you, which you are conducting negotiations with the government of the false state of Kosovo. That's two things. You call this government a false state of Kosovo - temporary institutions of self-government, which they are not. So, at that time, there were really temporary institutions of self-government under Resolution 1244, which we admitted by the very fact that we had recognised Resolution 1244. When a conversation was opened under Resolution 1244 on the so-called The political solution, representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government, however, took part in the talks. That's one thing. The second is when Kosovo Albanians unilaterally declare independence, and we later acknowledge it by accepting that we are negotiating with them. So now as the government of that false state. You have to understand that these are two different things. I will also remind you, when we conducted these negotiations, that we often came to-to resolutions that were not repeated but followed the stages of the negotiations and therefore there are so many of them, and that your party voted neatly for each of these resolutions. So you've accepted those conversations, too. Because these were resolutions about the phases of these talks. (President: Time. When the time has passed, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10456	National MP Marko Jaksic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10457	What's important to say is that the Prime Minister is absolutely not correct. Speaking of the president of Serbia, I don't think the Prime Minister needs to defend him. In general, the Prime Minister always used to imitate the stronger and bigger one. We only remember when the SPS spokesman imitated Slobodan Milosevic, so that the first time he went to The Hague, he would steal the party itself. His hair was similar, though. During Boris Tadic, he made a haircut, and I don't know what this third one is going to be now, or new one? I don't think there's any need for you to talk and talk like that, first of all, about the DSS. Then when it was the hardest time for you, we were saving you. That's why they attacked us for October 6th. You used to call us NATO mercenaries, chaos and madness. From this distance, the question arises – who is now NATO's mercenaries and who is now the power of chaos and madness? What is more important and important to say – that the DSS was not painful to you, it seems to me that in the affair "coffer" you would have gone much worse and it seems to me that you would not be there now. In addition, I hope that the new Serbian Deputy Prime Minister in the fight against corruption and crime and the "coffer" affair will investigate until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10458	National MP Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10459	Of course, I've been mentioned. Mr. Dacic said a typhoon of various untruths and mounted things, with a demagogue background, when it comes to the DSS. I know why you do it. You're doing it because you feel bad that you're in the position you're in today, which is why you feel bad that anyone in that DOS has ever helped you literally and literally pull a living head out on your shoulders. Because we're being accused by these sitting here and by those who aren't here right now, and up to them, we ruined October 6th, and you know very well what that 6th of October was supposed to look like. You know very well. You don't have the right to use the tone you're talking to us today to address the DSS that way. You have no right to do so and you know very well what I'm saying and look me in the eye. And those stories, the inventions of who, when and how he was acting, who was talking to who. First, the only politician in Serbia who had never met or talked to Madeline Albright was Vojislav Kostunica. The only politician. And what did you do? You've been ruining for 10 years, your political party. You dare call on that history today. Because for 10 years, in the 1990s, it has ruined Serbia in a fundamental sense, as a democratic creation. You denied it in the beginning of the way of government. What we do not hesitate to support you today is, regardless of the criminal way of government, a certain patriotic element in it. How are you not ashamed to teach anyone that way today? That's not clear to me. I don't have much time, I have two minutes, you have all night to make up whatever you want. That's what's wrong. You're talking today, you're turning things around. We're talking about that thing being very simple. We have documents on Eurointegration and we claim that it is not our obligation. We have arguments for that, and you honor us, you put things completely wrong, as if it were the most important thing in the world. You're taking an axiomatical thing that's completely upside down and you're building a complete argument by insulting people in parliament. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10460	Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10461	I want to remind you of one fact. You asked me to support your government in 2004. If we didn't support your government, you wouldn't have it. I don't know, do you think you can insult someone? You think you can call someone a traitor? You think you can tell someone... I didn't mention you, Mr. Aligrudic. I'm looking at you. As I recall, you and I know each other very well, from the time you were head of our delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Also, we all know each other very well and let's not talk about affairs. It's no problem to talk about affairs, but do you want us to talk politically, or do you want to trash the President of the Republic and me here by being traitors and making a border, that we're going to betray Serbs in Kosovo, that I'm going to trade in Serbian institutions. Do you think it's supposed to exist like that? And what do you trade, Mr. Jaksic? What are you trading for? The institutions, or something a little more lively. What are you trading in Kosovo and Metohija? To be clear, if you think someone's afraid of you, there's no problem. The way you address yourself here, Mr. Aligrudic, shows essentially how much you hated us, but you needed us to bring down the Democrats, because you yourself spoke about the criminal regime of Slobodan Milosevic for ten years, you just said that. You were talking about the truth having a certain dose of patriotism. I've told the DSS many times that I absolutely wish you all the best, but I don't give it to myself. Just like you don't give it to me. You cannot accuse our party and your official Marko Jaksic of talking about how I am a traitor, etc. How dare you say that? Now what? What are you gonna do now? I don't understand what that means. Now we're going to show you? What do you think? Where are you? Where are you? Please understand that there is no longer any language of force here. Do you have any arguments for that? Let's talk. Was I being incorrect to you today at a meeting? Did I talk about everything? Did we accept what you asked for when it came to constitutional law? We didn't? Mr. President Nikolic told me to deal with your president. (Free Samardzic, from the place: it was not agreed. Maybe. I'm sorry, then. All right. But we can't seem to make a deal. I respect your political attitude. You have the right to do so, but you have no right to insult others who have different political views. You have no right to speak falsely of making a limit. What's the limit? What's this line that hasn't already been made? What's something that's been done over the past few months that hasn't been agreed on before? I'm sorry, you have no right to do that. As far as I'm concerned. You have nothing against me personally, or that affair you're talking about. When it comes to an affair, we can also talk about it openly. I don't mind if we talk about it. Just what do you think that's the way to talk? Are you having an affair, Mr. Yaksic? I don't know, you may have, but in any case, I think that the way you're talking shows essentially that maybe it's most important of all not to the Serbian institutions, but how you're going to solve the problem that exists in some economic sphere. I don't mind, please, suggest a better solution. Here's a better solution. Here's the DSS and suggest. So your proposal is to end the negotiations, not go to the EU, no giving up on anything about Kosovo and Metohija. All right? Do we want to put forward such a proposal, and if we want to declare it, what will be tomorrow in Kosovo and Metohija? Will you mobilize the army to defend those Serbs? You won't, because if you wanted to, you'd do it when independence was declared. If you don't want to, then don't invite others to a collective suicide. We have responsibility for our actions. You personally, Mr. Jaksic, sacrifice as much as you want, but do not call for honorable defeats. Let us once win in this Kosovo, let us win together. Let me tell you one thing, how you survived in Kosovo all these years since 1999, at least until 2000. I'm sure you didn't just survive thanks to your resources. Surely you have not survived without the help of the Serbian state. So at least have a little respect for that. The presidents and bosses of my party have risked their lives and died and have imprisoned themselves in The Hague for that, yours neither. At least have respect for it when you talk about someone being a traitor. True, you told me I wasn't a traitor, that I was an intern for a traitor. Well, that's a bit of a relief to you, since I have yet to prepare for a traitor, but it doesn't hurt me. It hurts me because we're talking here, so easily we're giving each other compliments that it's simply fascinating that we don't have any concrete suggestions on what we're going to do next. I held a meeting with the Serbs from the north and I told them – go ahead, suggest what you want, go ahead, whatever you want. Make a suggestion. Guys, you're gonna have that and that problem, make a suggestion. What's the suggestion? It's your suggestion – we won't do anything, we don't give anything. It's all right. Do we have the resources to defend that? It's not a topic for this kind of debate. It's not even a topic for public character platforms, it's a topic for the most serious conversation between us, which we're leading this country and you leading the opposition parties. It's a topic that no one has ever wanted to discuss in Serbia. And what happens in case of day "D", if our ultimate courage is to hold that day's "D" session of the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where we will once again adopt the resolution declaration, then I think it's an empty story I'm talking about. Our policy must be measured by results. We tried to defend Kosovo with weapons, we failed. You were nothing more successful than yourself, for 13 years everyone who participated has their own cross on Kosovo, but don't look like those from the old story since 1968, when the local committee of the party in Danilovgrad took part in the intervention of the Soviet Union in Czechoslovakia and when it unanimously concluded that the Russians must withdraw immediately from Czechoslovakia. Then one answered and said, "What happens if they do not withdraw?" He says, "We're gonna have to schedule the meat committee again." That's not how you defend Kosovo, ladies and gentlemen. This is how Kosovo is lost because we have important hopes for our people, and we are doing nothing to defend it. So don't be afraid of what I'm gonna do. I will not betray my Kosovo. As far as you're concerned, make sure that what you're doing gets you aware of the consequences of the people and the citizens. Many of us also had national tribunals from Kosovo and other parts, where Serbs lived, who were the first to flee when some military force ran into them. We cannot allow it, because while the Serbs are in Kosovo, there is also Serbia. That is why we will do everything, the Serbian government, publicly and secretly, to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So do not honor us with some adjectives that do not fit a serious political conversation. Be against it, I thank you for being against it, but be correct, and especially don't threaten anyone, because you don't think I'm afraid of you as Minister of the Interior. I welcome you all and don't forget - the party has many, and Serbia is only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10462	Thank you. The word is Mr. Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10463	Mr. Prime Minister, we don't have a common language and we won't even find it. When it comes to language, there's been an exaggeration of the last weeks and months, most of all on your side. Believe me, we don't care what you say, how much we care what you do, so you and your government do about Kosovo and Metohija. That's what's important to us, and we're commenting on that. Rarely your words, words if they're related to your actions, and we observe your actions, since we're opposition, we can't do that. Your government has made a border on Jarinj and Brnjak. She made the right line, she didn't invent that border, she didn't negotiate it, she just finished what the previous government started, but she'll remain known that you ended it. The difference between the border and the one that exists on the white land, Konchulj and Merdar is very large. There are no Serbs on the Kosovo side of Merdar and the white country. There's little white country, it's eastern Kosovo. There are no Serbs from Merdar and therefore the limit is impossible to defend by Serbs. Jarinje and Brnjak Serbs defend with their teeth and nails, because it is a link to their state of Serbia they believe in, and by making this border, you're actually breaking off that link, and to them it's clear. Don't be angry if some Serb from Kosovo uses a more difficult word by qualified what you do. Don't be angry, just because they're experiencing it like that, I just said, it's about their skin. The Democratic Party of Serbia worked in Kosovo. From the fourth to the eighth year, the state is 15% of the administration in that territory and we will never speak abstractly about Kosovo, nor will we give programmes, but we will direct you to what we have done and how much Kosovo we have kept as a state. I think since 2008, and this is the share of your government and the previous in which you are now, that you have done what you have written.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10464	Mr. Dacic, I have you registered in the system. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10465	Thank you. So, Mr. Dacic, no one here is angry at you or anyone is threatening you, even though someone throws someone out of the congregation room -- now I'm going to answer you; it's a common congregation communication after all. We are not making a play out of this, you are making a play out of this, because you from the position of power and the place of prime minister and interior minister, in fact in an indirect but very clear and very clear way, are rightly threatening us, because what else is to the threat if you tell us – don't be careful, don't you, Mr. Jaksic, etc., and not to talk about the construction of the name and relationship with you that we never used, not after this speaker, not in this assembly, not as the Democratic Party of Serbia. We have never used a syntagma, a traitor, because that is not the way to turn. What we disagree on and where you have to wonder what you're doing and where you're supposed to wonder about the consequences is our fundamental disagreement over the main thing. You are talking about this same resolution that the negotiations you will be conducting, continue to lead them with the Albanian side, paraphrasing, should be in the role of European integration. We are telling you that the question of common sense requires, and this is the subject of conversation, that the talks with the Albanian side must be essentially things and completely independent of the issue of joining this country into any international organisation, and especially not the one that ends up in our wrong hat, which we do not need voluntarily agree to. If it hurts what we say, and if the answer is on your part -- you don't make any suggestions, and you know very well that we have it, you know very well that it is formulated in our amendments that you have read today, and you know very well that it is formulated in the economic programme, which represents a serious alternative to the sunflower towards the EU. It is then the right way to talk, not to scare people about what it means if we don't go to the EU. There's no room for fear, and don't let the fear sow. There's no reason. We need to talk seriously about this subject, and if we try to talk seriously and give some epithet, we're MPs, and you're the government. You have no right to be angry with us the way you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10466	The word is made by MP Marko Jaksic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10467	Our people are used to saying, "He who itches, he scratches." As far as the traitor's statement, intern, is not my word, these are the words of Rajka Petrova-Noga taken to the Sava Center. I mean much worse. Why am I saying all this? I'm talking about the effect that you, Mr. President, have made in the previous four years as Deputy Prime Minister. You made literally Kosovo "de facto sent de iura". You admitted Albanian diplomas, their registration and traffic permits, licenses and deals, except for medicine. Thank God. Maybe you could teach me how to trade and how to deal with a suitcase. I haven't had a chance to see that, though. There is a nice rule, an example works, in Ukraine, where every MP who enters the Assembly all that makes it an attribute of statehood. As far as I'm concerned, no other job I've ever done in my life has to pass an alcohol test. I don't think it should be just for the MPs here, but for some members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10468	Mr. Jaksic, there's no point in doing that. That really humiliates the dignity of the National Assembly. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10469	It's not worth it anymore. What am I supposed to say? I think we've absorbed the topic of alcohol last time. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. There are many among your MPs who know me, and there are many who have spent many years with me. The way you talk here, Mr. Jaksic, is far from how a serious political debate should be conducted. I don't run away from comparisons with anyone, even with regard to my personal wealth, even with regard to my condition when it comes to alcohol use or not. A friend of mine told me what I'm saying when it comes to Serbs, it's not a compliment when you don't drink, but I really don't drink. You seem to think someone's just drunk enough to tell you everything you deserve. Mr. Jaksic, do you think this is how you lead the Serbs in northern Kosovo? Do you know where to take them like this? Like Domanovic's leader. If you continue this way, with your demands and your policy like this, I fear what you will be able to defend without the help of Serbia. Do you think you yourself have defended northern Kosovo? Do you really think that because of your historical significance, northern Kosovo still has Serbs? Where do you live? In the past term, when I was Minister of the Interior, ask your co-workers with whom they worked most to defend the Serb people in northern Kosovo and which is why I was publicly named in Washington and why they were against me being Prime Minister in this term. That's what the President of the Republic knows. When he proposed to me as prime minister, an American ambassador came to him to protest why he gave me the mandate and now you're telling me that I'm on the opposite side of Serbian national and state interests. Okay, history and time will show who was right. I hope we have something to discuss, that the Serbs will remain alive, that they will have their power. I never said that Serbs should not listen to Belgrade when I was talking about not listening to Belgrade, but Belgrade did not treat the north well and did not advise them to make their institutions. That's what it's all about. You manipulate people in the north. Mr. Jaksic, my party has received the highest number of votes in Kosovo and Metohija. On whose behalf are you speaking? You speak only for yourself, in the name of those who voted for you. As for your personal objections and connotations, please contact those who sit next to you, and discuss with them the issues you have set in motion. Go ahead, there's no problem. There's Dean Michael, so talk to him about the case. If it's really someone's fault, there's no problem, I'm here, I'm clean. You could have arrested me as many times as you wanted by now, but enough about it. Do you think you have now defended the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? You've proven yourself a hero who can and can tell the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic that and that. I'd like you to go and say it where it's supposed to be. We're sick of Serbian-Serbian fights. I don't want to react anymore. I only reacted because of it. I didn't respond to personal insults or qualifications when someone was talking about these things. I'm only reacting to the fact that I don't think it's good, that every attempt to find a solution is declared treason. I accept that the DSS has never officially said that, but it is your people who participated in these gatherings organised by Marko Jaksic. On the other hand, your people took part in meetings with me, the president of the municipalities. Ask if I ever lied to them. Ask them what I told them two, three, four, five years ago. No one has the right to lie to them. People need to know the truth about what's waiting for them. At the very end, what will wait for us in Brussels is very difficult for all of us. You obviously have your suggestions, but I don't know if you realize that your suggestions here are not supported. I don't know if you're aware that no one supports your proposal at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? How, then, can you use such a tone to address anyone who does not support your suggestions? I'm willing to protect your right to think differently, but don't make a dictatorship verbal to those who dare to speak ill of you now. I believe your president is a man who has played a very important role in Serbia's history, but that the policy you are now leading has no support right now. I'm not saying that she's malicious, but in those conditions, we can't now unless someone accepts your proposal, that you come out immediately with the view that that's what we've set up a new state, an independent state, etc. That's just not true. We have to fight. The fight will be hard and long. We may lose in the first phase, maybe we'll get, maybe we'll never get, maybe there's something we've lost forever, maybe there's something we'll get, but in the first place it's always Serbia, not any part of Serbia. I agree that Kosovo is essential to us, but only 100 years ago we got it back and today we almost don't have it again. It's a tough fate for us, but it'll be even harder if we fight like this. That's why I'm saying I don't want to discuss it anymore. It's all right, Mr. Jaksic, everything you have to say to me, you can come to me as you think you should. If you think I did something wrong, please tell me, too, Mr. Aligrudic. There's no need to be angry, because I almost got a stroke of fear when he set out to stand up to me, but since we're old friends, I guess it'll end up at one good handshake. Either way, we can and we need to work things out, but let's not use words behind which we can't go back later. I won't hear from you again until the debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10470	I think there were enough two circles of replicas, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10471	President-in-Office of Parliament, I ask you, not only in relation to a particular case but also in the future, that when representatives of the Government address MPs, they do not use syntagms such as verbal dictatorship and so forth. This parliamentary group and we who participated in the debate in this way, using the right that you have given us in replicas, benefit exclusively from the opportunities given to the Rules of Procedure, explaining their views and ideas that may sometimes sound supportive. It's simply because the situation is like this and it's crystallized, but if it were any kind of verbal dictatorship, it's not. Nor does anyone impose that position on anyone, while the same Rules of Procedure that we all manage here enables proposing representatives, in this case it is the Government, that they can use their time indefinitely and replicate. This was a technical remark, please understand it as such and please continue to take care of the application of Articles 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10472	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10473	President-in-Office of the State, the Honorable Prime Minister, President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to try to return the debate at the end of this long day on what is now our task and topic, which is the platform. Given that the platforms on Kosovo and the resolution on Kosovo always challenge the public's greatest attention, and that in the end, the public does not understand at all what we talked about today, what it is and how Serbs in Kosovo will be better off. Allow me Prime Minister Dacic, first of all, to congratulate you on all the speeches so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10474	I'm just asking our colleagues to listen to the speaker for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10475	Mr. Dacic, I want to congratulate you, I can yell, it's no problem, since it's a practice here. Let me congratulate you on the speeches you've given today, the opening speech that was brave, bold and which meant a real change of policy that you've advocated so far. For those of you who did not listen carefully, you said a few big words, that Serbia, which before you, the statesmen did not dare say, that Serbia can no longer return to the previous state, that we cannot go back to the Constitution that binds us all, that we cannot close our eyes to reality and that we cannot change much the reality we see. It's for all praise. You have today made your speech a discontinuity with regard to yourself and the government policy and the speech that you yourself have given in this assembly. You should be congratulated on that. What only opens up as a question is the question of the legitimacy and legality of what you said. You are Mr Dacic, with this policy we went to the polls and got the result we got, you arrested the Albanians and warned President Dacic two days before the elections, announced the reciprocity in the arrest and warned Tomislav Nikolic and Boris Tadic that the two, unlike you, were ready for European integration to give up Kosovo, and that you are the only presidential candidate to whom it is the first and last thing and that Europe is no alternative for you. The second question, President Dacic, is the question of legality. Many constitutional experts today will say that the Constitution has been overcome and I will agree with them. But you're the Prime Minister, and when you say we can put the Constitution under the mouse and go to Pristina, it has a different meaning. In that sense, you were obliged, realizing that this constitution binds your hands, makes it impossible for you in further negotiations, is not realistic, and makes you deceive the public, that you propose constitutional changes, but you cannot pronounce it in this way, nonexistent and invalid. The second thing that we are gathered about today is to remind you of what the negotiating team will represent as Serbia's views in the future based on this resolution. That's what we're gathered about. We gathered after a long-term reminder to the public, Tomislav Nikolic, that in the campaign he said he had a plan and then never again announced it to you, Prime Minister Dacic, to negotiate in Brussels without any paper and that no one knows what you're agreeing on. President Nikolic himself warned you in an interview a new year ago that today's not knowing what was agreed on customs is the product of the fact that you negotiate without a platform, without agreement and without any act. Today we have a resolution but doubts that today it is clear to anyone what Serbia will represent in the negotiations on so-called ". parallel institutions, energy and telecommunications. What will be Serbia's stance on Kosovo's calling number, what will be Serbia's position on energy and ultimately, 17. go to talk about parallel institutions. Based on this resolution, the parallel institution and the parallel institution are Hashim Thaci himself. Based on what you will be forced to negotiate, the parallel institutions are the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the north. What will you negotiate about these two, and what attitudes will you take? That's what we were supposed to talk about today, and that's not what we're talking about. The third thing that in the great patriotic rhetoric of all previous years, it has nothing to do with you, is the fact that we have entered into negotiations because of Serbs in Kosovo, not because of the EU, candidacy or the date on the negotiations. To remind the public that without the intervention of the DS and amendments, in this platform or resolution created on the basis of the platform, there was only one thing missing from the mention of Serbs and the mention of the Serbian Orthodox Church, that the resolution said that the goal of negotiations was to grow and develop ethnic communities in Kosovo, not to fight for the national interests of Serbs in Kosovo, the struggle for their return to their property and human rights that are at risk in Kosovo. In that sense, the DS policy when we entered these negotiations, which you are continuing on our behalf today, was that we were fighting for an ordinary man in Kosovo and that we don't care about anything that accuses us of treason, as long as we knew we were moving things so that someone in Kosovo lives easier. That's all you forgot to say. That you're holding negotiations for them today. You said that we would be very sorry and that we are sorry that you are continuing the European policy of the DS today. I must tell you again, we congratulate you on this policy, thank you for continuing that policy. We can't imagine what Serbia would look like if the DSS and Tomislav Nikolic's policy had won and we consider our victory and victory as Serbia's citizens, which today we have a European government and a European prime minister who says they are an imperative of European integration policy, but I must tell you, Mr Dacic, that, apart from a good opening speech, you must also pass the European candidate in the following way. You cannot call yourself a European and celebrate the war and military victories of Slobodan Milosevic. You cannot call yourself a European and celebrate the war and military victories of Slobodan Milosevic. You can't call yourself a European and lie down on October 5th, and call it the uprising that set fire to the institution's assembly, because that October 5th allowed you to go on a European path at all. You cannot, President Dacic, come to the Assembly today without condemning the president's adviser's statement that the Croats are kleptomaniacs and that at the same time you say that you are in favour of restoring relations, peace and stability in the region. You can't, if you don't have a valuable attitude towards this Europe and everything that's civilized, that you're called a European. In the end, you cannot take Europe as a gift and put it in a resolution that everything you agree must be followed by a reward, but must be followed by a change in Serbian society and a change in which Serbs in Kosovo are better. And if the European prize will come for it, that's second-rate. Finally, by no chance that five hours of today's debate and tension over the DS amendment was in vain, it was very important for those who did not understand today's process. We've been looking for that amendment, we've been looking for a code of detachment to figure out what the real government policy is. Are there two policies? Are you behind President Nikolic's policy, which we deeply disagree with? We got an answer to that question, which is more than direct and clear. You said that in that battle, you two have won and I congratulate you on that. You said his platform was unrealistic, unreal, and it was not good for Serbia and its children's future and I congratulate you on that. You said in this resolution that these negotiations would continue, and that ended the period of pronunciation on Borislav Stefanovic and that you were only implementing his agreements. You said the policy of Tomislav Nikolic was defeated, and with that DSS, DVERI, Ours, Faces and all others. You said that Serbia today is clearly and unequivocally on the European path and that what Tomislav Nikolic was given a mandate and won the elections, a policy that was deleted. Tomislav Nikolic, president of Serbia, I'm sorry to have to tell you this, your victory is the greatest victory of Pir's. You became an ex the day you were elected. Today is a proof that both your party and they all gave up your policies and they told you unequivocally. So I must tell you that the cross that you asked us all to carry with you, today you carry alone, perhaps, possibly, Vojislav Kostunica along with you and that you ask too much of Serbia, asking that we die together in something that is a policy of the past and that everyone has given up. That's why I think this resolution should be supported by the DS for all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10476	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10477	The Honorable President, Mr. President of the Republic, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members, we are gathered today at this magnificent building, the temple of Serbian democracy, which was built long ago in 1936 and, I fear, throughout the day, most of us hold speeches that may be unworthy of this temple, so to speak, democracy. Unworthy in the sense that I assume that citizens who have been watching us all day have not received answers to many questions, at least those who are our target group, which are certainly citizens and citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo and Metohija, have not been given the answer to that question that they ask to every Serbian politician who comes to Kosovo and Metohija, which is - do they still stay in Kosovo and Metohija? Now I wonder why these citizens, Zvonko Stevic, would already say there are about 135 thousand left in Kosovo and Metohija, when they make up only 7% of the citizens or residents living in Kosovo and Metohija, when they are minorities, when many of them had to leave, when they were internally displaced, when they cannot return to their homes, so what is it that the Serbian state and what Serbian politicians and the current government can do for these citizens to continue to survive? Today we had a demonstration of unimaginable words, quite a fight, we saw demonstrations and local patriotism, that political folklore that marked Serbia back three decades, how long the Kosovo crisis has been going on since March 1981. All that this current ruling coalition wanted to say, it also wrote in the text of the resolution, in the text of the reasoning, and ultimately, in the informal text of the platform, which the President of the Republic has already produced in public, both domestic and international, which is that we will build, to offer as a solution to an autonomous institution at the disposal of the Serb community. It's been quite a bit of a school discussion here, to say the least. International public law has also been discussed, constitutional law has also been discussed, and many relevant legal documents have been called for. However, if you do not trust me or us from the SPS, remember the testimony of Professor Smilje Avramov, who testified, as Milosevic said during the Hague conferences, not to send international public rights professors to negotiations on the Yugoslav crisis, but to send politicians. So, at least when it comes to Kosovo, this government had these determinations, to raise talks and negotiations on Kosovo to that political level. Serbia's prime minister is already in charge of political negotiations. The president of the Republic suggests he will also engage in talks on the most serious state and state-run issue. The ruling coalition has told you with this text of the resolution a lot of things that you don't really want to read or interpret them in some extensive and slightly unexpected way. Those who, in today's opposition, declare themselves Europeans, as Mrs Trivan spoke earlier, or those who declare themselves Mr Jaksic, as proven patriots, local patriots or all Serbian patriots, have unexpected criticism and objections to the text of this resolution. We may have expected to be equally supported by Europeans and nationalists or those who represent national interests. We do not know what is controversial, what is wrong with offering Kosovo Serbs, to provide them with guarantees and to give concrete institutions on which they can be organised. Citizens in KIM territory, however, are quite political and institutionally disorganised. Don't tell me it's enough to be organized and just political parties to be members or officials of this or that political party, whether it's an SPS or some other party, to say they're politically active. It is these institutions, within the community of Serb municipalities in which they are offered, or as part of the special status of rural enclaves, that institutions where they can and must engage, if they want to survive in Kosovo. Another key question arises – are the Kosovo Serbs in our eyes mature enough to rule themselves? Do we from Belgrade have to constantly impose ourselves on them as some kind of political tutors and political interpreters of their interests, or can they prove it themselves and show their abilities right where they live and where they survive all this time? Therefore, I would like to appeal on behalf of the SPS that we should be out of public debates, out of each other's accusations and labels. That's what we're good at, but it doesn't bring any results. Simply for the sake of fact, perhaps some of the opposition will support us and will finally vote in favour of the text of a resolution that offers an institutional mechanism for the survival of Serbs in Kosovo, and this long-term survival of Serbs in Kosovo. Finally, on behalf of the SPS, I can safely say, if you ask us whether to remain in Kosovo, therefore, I am speaking to the Kosovo Serbs, our answer is clear, determined and behind this we assume political responsibility, and primarily Prime Minister Dacic, our answer is yes, stay there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10478	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10479	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, from the Balkan wars to today has always been a moving concern for political elites in Belgrade for the so-called. The Kosovo question. We know that throughout history, interethnic relations in Kosovo have been problematic, and they have been very often dominated by tensions that have repeatedly escalated. What has always been constant in all this is that the fate of people living in the KIM area was decided by at least themselves, and to the greatest extent was decided in power centres with addresses far from Kosovo. In the last 30 years, this topic has been very manipulated and mainly due to some political points, without worrying about how this will refer to the fates of people living in Kosovo. After 25 years of the famous -- no one can beat you in Gazimestan, we can draw a line and balance what comes next. The balance is that after 25 years in Mitrovica, it's hard to live. Thousands of people are unemployed. The factory halls are empty, and the soup kitchens are full. Young people don't see perspective and leave as soon as they get a chance. Compared to the last list in town, there are several thousand fewer people. Common people don't like politicians trying to fight people on both sides of the river. The ramps and the cottages are wherever they go and with their mind they remember a time when it wasn't there. Mitrovica is mostly mentioned in black chronicles, not in tourist brochures. To a town where people used to come to work and earn money, now they only come if they have to, because they've been expelled from their hearths. For example, people who run local self-government in Mitrovica have to go to Belgrade for every problem. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a balance sheet of previous policy platforms and resolutions, and it is even more tragic that Mitrovica is not a Kosovo but a meeting and is not surrounded by hordes of armed rebels, but is located 60km from Belgrade and is full of Serbia of such Mitrovica, such as the one I come from. I don't think that after 25 years we should be looking for an 11th alibi, that we should finally try to solve something that has been burdening our reality for decades and that it is finally starting to negotiate, having in the interests of the people who live in this country, not the interests of politicians, to stop creating collective paranoia and to turn to solving the problems that we can solve in this building without trying to solve things where our decisions won't mean much. In that sense, this declaration, for LSV, isn't something we'll support and we don't have to burden the public with something that, according to us, has been told a long time ago. Those who negotiate should be supported to settle this issue once and for all in the best interests of the people living in the area of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10480	The word is by MP Marko Jaksic, a replica of Mrs Vukomanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10481	My colleague Vukomanovic, I'm not a patriot's bar, and I don't just speak for myself. More than 35% of people in northern Kosovo voted in favour of the DSS. Otherwise, we are headed by a resistance that has been fighting for 13 years for the survival of Serbia's state in this area. Without the intention of arguing, but I want to tell you that without us, the problem of Kosovo would have been solved long ago. We are the ones who have opened the door to the state of Serbia so that it can fight for those spaces. It seems to me, not only in northern Kosovo, but that the light of freedom for all Serbs throughout KIM. So, without the intention of entering into some broader controversy, you have no right to call us local patriots, because for 13 years we have been fighting for the survival of the Serbian state in that space.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10482	Mrs. Vukomanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10483	Mr. Jaksic, with all due respect to your age and your personal role in defending Serbia in northern Kosovo, I would like to remind you that I am a member of a political party that won the most votes in the republican elections in the entire KIM territory in the past elections. The term local patriots refers to the fact that you act within one municipality, is it so, that you act within one part of KIM and that today you demonstrate how personally, sober you are, that you have no alcohol in your blood, but drunk with your own small or large role in Kosovo's defence. When you're so drunk with your own role in the history of Kosovo's defence, then why don't you write memoirs or why you're so panickingly running away from camera "Insider" B92 who wants to produce that role of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10484	Mr. Yaksic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10485	It seems to me that a young colleague wishes to defend her president and enters conflict for any reason. Personally, I don't think there's gonna be a choice yet, and I'm assuming that a colleague is running to her president to be an MP in the next term. I have no intention of giving her that pleasure. As far as B92 is concerned, the position of the DSS political party is that it does not give any answers to TV B92. So, not because I won't, but because that's the political side's attitude. Regardless of my age, I am still a soldier of my own party and as such I must respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10486	I'm closing a circle of replicas, Mrs. Vukomanovic. We went to another topic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10487	Honorable members of the government, MPs in 1999, in early April, above Malishev, I have experienced something that I have to tell you. One unit of our army is returning from heavy combat, days, dirty, dirty, stopping transporters, above NATO aircraft. One sergeant, painted with masked colors, puts a tape in a tape recorder, trumpets are heard, lifts three fingers and says: all this is for Serbia. It's precisely this heroism of our security forces that we've received Resolution 1244. We are now continuing this fight through this resolution, but through peaceful political means. KIM is a strategic issue for the present and future of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia. It requires full political commitment, maturity, courage. The President of the Republic, with his team, expressed that courage, took the initiative, achieved unity with the Serbian government and offered us, the MPs, to achieve such a sustainable unity. What did we receive today instead of this dedication to solving the strategic issue? Lots of bitter words, lots of bile. Who's looking forward to these divisions of ours? Serbian citizens? No, I don't. Serbian people at KIM? No, I don't. Pristina? Yeah. Washington, Brussels and the ones that should finally take Cosmett away from us? Yeah. Is that our historical responsibility, all of us? Have we shown enough political maturity today, that despite the differences, we can unite around the basic principle, that we will defend the state integrity of our common homeland, because in this country our children live, our grandchildren will live? But that's where little militia lives, in Prizren. It is this little militia that the prime minister has hosted that is our vow and our oath that we must and must not give up fighting for Serbia's territorial integrity. The Serbian people living in KIM today expect hope, expects us to tell him that Serbian institutions will not be shut down after the adoption of this resolution, expects to know whether we will fight, not only for its survival, but also for opening the perspective. Are we all at the height of the task? What happens next, if this trend of development around Cosmet continues? Have you heard of Albanian Prime Minister Berisha, who has told us publicly that 2015 follows the unification of all Albanian ethnic territories? Do you know what that is? In normal conditions, it would be a direct declaration of war. Their so-called. The ethnic territories are both KIM and the south of central Serbia and the Rasko-Political area and some of us neighbouring countries. What do we got? The marginalized Resolution 1244 through the reconfiguration of UNMIK, an outcast Russia that provides us with support from the game, prone to the UN, EULEX that implements Ahtisaari's plan that has not been accepted by the Security Council. We have IBM, we have tables and we have a threat that in 2015 we will have Kosovo joined Albania. What do we have to do? We need to encourage in the world those who don't want to admit the secession of Cosmet. We should force a review of the views on the recognition of the unilaterally declared independence of the Cosmeta of the country that did it. We need to prevent Cosmet from becoming a member of the UN. We need to prevent the creation of a great Albania. We need to create conditions for the Serb people to survive in KIM, to develop, to create conditions for Serbia to develop economically and not to close the door on Serbia's European path. How can we do that? Only by saying that all that is done is against Resolution 1244, that international law has been violated, by demonstrating in Belgrade. Of course we can't, it's not enough. We need to step up and make it this resolution, but some want this resolution to be a betrayal. Betray who and betray what? Isn't this resolution the best guarantee that we will never admit the secession of Cosmet and that we offer, this time we offer a solution and transfer the geopolitical ball to their backyard. Here you go, gentlemen, answer me. Don't accuse us of not making a solution. Can we agree on about five, six basic principles? What's so controversial about that? Is it possible that we are trying to find disunity between the president and the government, when they unanimously agreed on a resolution and a platform? Why are we doing this? Is it a wise policy for us to publicly demasculate our disunity or would it be much wiser than all of us to push aside this disunity, at least today when we have to plead only on basic principles? I expected, I must tell you, when he was the KIM Committee yesterday, when none of the present members of the committee who pleaded opposed that we would succeed much more seriously and much more uniquely, despite the differences, to behave. But I didn't expect those differences to be in the final view of the solution to the situation. The final solution cannot be the repeal of our internationally recognised borders, and at least we all agree. Are we closer to it today or not? The ruling majority will take responsibility for themselves without the support of opposition parties. We'll adopt the resolution and we'll work on its realization. It is an extremely difficult road ahead of us, to realize at least part of what it says in the Platform, but we will fight, and that is our message to the Serbian people, that we will fight and we will not give up defending territorial integrity both because of Milica and because of many Jovan and Sladjan and Miloš and Uros and send a message to the Serbian people that we will fight for those Serbs who live north of Ibra and for those who live in Kosovo Pomoravlje both in Brezovica and in Gorazdevac and in Gracanica and wherever they have managed to survive. That's our message, that's our wish, not to betray Serbia and betray the Serbian people. To us, Serbia is sacred. Serbia is our country for which we fought in 1999, many of us, when it was the most difficult, when under bombs we did not betray, neither the SNS nor the ruling majority will betray neither Serbia nor the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10488	The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10489	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I had the need and the intention to address both Mr. Prime Minister and the President of the State, I see that, unfortunately, there are none, but at least I will be left with the anger of the Prime Minister, since as the Cinderella is approaching the moment when it is due to lose its shoe, and the horses should turn into mice, and the carriage into a pumpkin, the anger of our prime minister towards the DSS is growing, so in that sense it may be good that it is not here. I can't help but think, dear friends, that the most frequently mentioned syntagma in this resolution is the EU itself, step forward, retreat, arrival, approach etc. I'll just tell you in a hurry that, let's say, in the second indent of the preamble, the EU's behaviour is said, and then said in point 1 in Article G) -- talks with representatives in Pristina and any agreement they have reached, should contribute to the European integration of the Republic of Serbia, and then said in point 4, the Republic of Serbia approaches dialogue with Pristina aware of the importance that achieving a mutually acceptable solution would have to accelerate the integration of the entire Western region into the EU, etc. With my modest education and intelligence, I was convinced, dear friends, that this resolution should preserve the territorial integrity of the country, that it should preserve its integrity, that it should preserve sovereignty and dignity, to offer the hand of reconciliation to Albanians, insisting on the fact that KIM is forever, forever and mostly Serbian, as well as the space of creation of the Serbian state, religion, church, language, identity, that as such a birthplace of the Serbian nation and each Serb individual, that Gracanica, dear friends, is not the self-indulgent weeds on the beach, and that Simonida is not the wall wallpaper purchased in the nearby "Mercator". Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister and there is no Mr. President and I can't tell them that. I'll say one more thing. In addition to all these facts, to this and such Kosovo, all the Albanian people who gave birth to their children and buried their parents are fully traditional. In my humble understanding of things, this resolution was meant to talk about the inevitability of the historical agreement of two divided nations, so that they could live with no blood, no blood, no drug trafficking and no internal organs in the future. Indeed, I absolutely do not understand what this has to do with EU accession. The resolution should prevent a new spiral of violence, the appearance of a Serbian guerrilla in Kosovo, in northern Kosovo, from the taste of bitterness and collective frustration that Kosovo is lost, to eliminate once and for all the idea that Kosovo can be lost, because, dear friends, Kosovo is not a button to be lost. It is, as I suppose you know, kidnapped, and when something is taken, it's not the kidnappers, it's the liberators. Except behind the liberators, behind their white horses or white tanks, anyway, they go either poets or cameramen, and right behind them is revenge. In that sense, the tycoon viciosus should have prevented this resolution. That's why it's finally written, I suppose, not because of the EU's accession. You knock on the door and beg, dear Europhilic friends, married and already-requested girl. A ship called Europe is very sinking. Travelers leave it in crowded lifeboats completely panicked, and only a Serbian boat with glimmered rowers and a dreary steering wheel, a enthusiastic helm as well as a dreary, largely and energetically rowing towards the wreck. No, dear friends, multi-professional and multinational empire survived. Neither will this one. To remind you of the Soviet Union, to remind you of the British Empire, the Roman Empire, the Ottoman, the Austro-Hungarian. They all fell apart in blood and ash. At that stake, at least when it comes to Turkey and Austria, we, believe it or not, have added a few logs. Europe is a comfort tomb for small nations. Well, you don't think the voice of a Luxembourgian has the same power as the voice of a French. That the voice of one Slovenia has the same power as the voice of a German. Dear friends, when Angela speaks, John blinks, quietly and silently. Although, when Angela speaks, everyone blinks, quietly and silently. Serbia is knocking too late on that door and Serbia is not welcome there. Europe is falling apart, ladies and gentlemen. Ask the Greeks, the Portuguese, the Irish, the Hungarians. And you're talking about an extraordinary sense of reality. Reality isn't constant. At least she's a political constant. If that were the case, we would still be walking agama today and agreeing to the right of our wedding night. If so, Hitler would still be in Paris today, and Croatia and Slovenia would still be in Yugoslavia. When you're sick, dear friends, you don't agree to reality. You're being treated. When your child is a child, don't give God in the claws of the drug mob, you don't agree to reality, you call relatives, friends, doctors, psychologists. You're not going to, of course, respecting reality, leave it at the mercy of drug dealers and wait for them to find it certified in some squat or some haustor, but you're going to invite doctors, family, psychologists, psychiatrists, if you need to knock on the door and the prime minister and the president and call the army and the firefighters, provided you have an army and you have firefighters. We will wait as Jews, yearn for the divines and wait for reality to change, without the Venezuelan complex to break down for us to solve this centuries-old conflict, that at all costs we must have historical readers, we will wait for the political circumstances to change, that the Americans go to Venezuela, that the Albanian triumphalism may be dimmed, that children take matters into their own hands, as the Cypriots have waited for Kutuzov, as the Scots wait, as the Chinese wait. Speed isn't always a virtue. I'll cut it short because my colleagues need to talk, but I had something else important to tell you. So if you identify yourself for that previously repeated mantra – Europe has no alternative, Europe has no alternative, Europe has no alternative, and if it is a political matrix and you are in power now, I can imagine one encounter under the starry sky of the Kosutnjak in which he begs that it give it, and she says – nothing before marriage. He says, "Give me, please, and she says nothing before marriage." He says, "Give me, I will marry you, and she will say nothing before marriage." Then he says, "Give it to me, it will bring us closer to the European Union." Dear friends, did she give him what you think? Long live the European Union!
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10490	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10491	I can't hear my name or my last name from the noise, and I'm going to say it, but obviously today we've heard everything and everything, and at least we've talked about the resolution, at least we've talked about those things that we've met today, and we've been discussing them at night like this. Dear People's MPs, respected ministers, yet the amendment I submitted today has met its goal. Finally, citizens of Serbia, MPs, and above all citizens in Kosovo and Metohija will see the platform on which the negotiating team will act and talk in Brussels. Today we heard various accusations against DS, that we wanted to end the technical dialogue in Brussels with this amendment, that we were playing with the people. On the contrary, we have done all of this for the sake of the people, so that the people may finally see the platform, that the people here may see who is telling the truth, who is playing with the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and we have finally driven this naked truth out into the open. I am very sorry that no one today, nor from the promoters, nor particularly from certain opposition parties spoke of the resolution. We talked about how many votes were cast in Kosovo. We've been saying some pathetic things, patriotic outflows, and in fact Serbian citizens, primarily citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, want to hear what's real in that platform, i.e. The resolution and what use it will have first and foremost. Dear People's MPs, the resolution before us has already been seen at least 10 to 11 times. It is a mixture of already known, already inaccessible and already declarative things that we brought back several years. I wonder if we have so much time to go back to documents that don't change anything, they don't solidify anything, and they've been copied from texts that we've debated and brought in so-called. historical decisions. This resolution contains everything, but it contains the least in how to protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, how to solve the problem of telecommunications, electricity, how to solve the problem of customs, the court in Kosovo Mitrovica, how to preserve our institutions in Kosovo and Metohija or better say how to preserve acquired rights that Serbs in particular in northern Kosovo and Metohija have preserved back 13-14 years. A resolution like this at a time like this, I don't think it's too late tonight that we're going to bring it, but a time that's right now that's not going to work out for us, it's not going to bring anything new, nothing good and nothing permanent. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this resolution is, in my opinion, superficial. At this moment, it is delaying real action and is doubting the many times-chosen historical orientation of the state and the people. Today none of our citizens need great words, nor pessimistic, nor optimistic views of things, but we need reality. But we already checked that reality a few days ago when the president of the Republic of Serbia was forbidden to travel to Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. in Gracanica. It is no coincidence that Kosovo authorities banned this visit from a new round of talks, i.e. They wanted to show the world as well as us here in Belgrade, as well as Kosovo Serbs what the real situation in Kosovo, who is in power in Kosovo, who decides on whose side the international community is on. That is why the honourable MPs and respected citizens, the Democratic Party is on time, i.e. in the time when she led the government to negotiate with Pristina, given that Serbs do not find it acceptable that the 21st century should be carried out in a historic conflict with Albanians and the international community, which in the Balkans wants peace at all costs, without keeping too much account of who is right and who is wrong. So we need to be aware of the gravity of the situation, for this reason we need to be at the height of the task and responsibility. But I am personally afraid that the government has no concept of solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija, because we are witnessing not only today, but also in previous days of contradictory messages and reactions coming from both sides, by the president of Serbia and by the government. The best example is, until maybe an hour ago is whether we had a platform or not, whether the platform is secret or not. It is precisely the amendment that we have submitted thanks to this amendment that we have come to the situation that today's citizens of Serbia, that today's honourable MPs know what will be discussed. I am very sorry that neither the prime minister nor the president were here, but certainly I will, for the sake of the public, for the sake of Kosovo Serbs, who are still living in a great dilemma, ask a few questions whether this country will continue to stand behind them. What's our national interest? Unfortunately, in this neither resolution nor the Platforms that we received an hour ago, we cannot see whether autonomy for Kosovo Serbs is in an independent Kosovo or autonomy in autonomy, as part of the Republic of Serbia. I would like, not me, but primarily citizens in Kosovo and Metohija to get a clear and precise answer. Also, they are in the resolution, and neither the Platform sees how when negotiations are concluded and what final document will verify those agreements. Will it be the Assembly's decision, is it any other body? Also, in the resolution, and also in the Platform, there is no mechanism to control the success of the negotiations especially until we know what the Platform is like, but I think we finally need to establish this instrument of control, not with populist, demagogue statements anymore, but specifically, to measure the results of success and resolutions and platforms and any decisions that this largest home makes. In the end, I will say that regardless of our lack of complete satisfaction with this resolution and the Platform, we are certainly proud to see through this resolution and through the Platform a continuation of negotiations with Pristina, to see whether Serbia's further integration towards the European Union, to see through this resolution and the Platform that the government continues the policy for which the previous Government has advocated and implemented. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10492	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10493	Thank you, Vice President. I was always after, and when I wasn't an MP, this is the kind of debate I had in the assembly, I was sad. Today, the right to tell you, and in particular I address citizens, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, yesterday I prayed and appealed to my colleagues on the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, to take care today of what messages we will be sending from this highest home. I appealed because the messages are a guideline for their survival. We should have encouraged them today, not encouraged Albanian nationalists and extremists. The prime minister said wisely when he said that Kosovo is the topic on which we all lose. Unfortunately, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija lost the most today. By putting parties in front of Serbia, we will never get out of the wagon. To this end, I'm going to give up my discussion, because I think that even after what I heard today, there's no need to discuss and talk at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10494	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. There's only one minute left for your MP's group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10495	I would just like to join the speech of MP Dejan Radenkovic, who is disappointed in today's debate. I would stress that all those who participated in the debate, stressed, and particularly Prime Minister Dacic in today's debate defends today's resolution, and it can be said that he participated in the adoption of Resolution 1244. Due to his policy, his party's policy in the 1990s has led to the loss of Kosovo. Our MP, Chizik, spoke Hungarian today. It is said to see MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia react to a speech different from that spoken in the Assembly. The reactions were different, and the reactions talk about how this National Assembly might accept, perhaps 50 MPs who would speak Albanian in this congregation. I don't know, today's debate didn't really show whether this National Assembly, and the Republic of Serbia, has enough power and is mature enough to integrate a million and a half Albanians into the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10496	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10497	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if, by any chance, the Albanians from Kosovo look at this assembly, they certainly shouldn't be worried about the outcome of their negotiations, the continuation of future negotiations with Belgrade. I cannot help but get the impression that the state's capacity, when it comes to the preservation of vital state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija, is lost between Belgrade's top analysts, many of whom would not even know on the map that they find Kosovo and Metohija and the Serb on-call from Kosovo and Metohija. From the discussion of my predecessors, three positions can be defined. One view is those who unfortunately are not in parliament now, which since 2000, the public of this country has been deluding the the thesis that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija in the 1990s has arisen because of the lack of respect for human and minority rights, not knowing or not wanting to know that it is open separatism and secessionism at the time. They are today asking that the authors of this resolution apologize to their people. They say today that this resolution is a lie to the people. They say today that this resolution has no vision. Personally, I think they should apologize to the citizens of this country for everything they've done since 2000 until today. Another stance is those who led politics towards Kosovo and Metohija with a cabinet, far from the public's eyes and worst, in disagreement with Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Those whose opinion of Mr. Cooper is more important than the opinion of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, those who today insist that the original platform of the President of the Republic be made public, dealing with this policy and wanting the people of this country to continue to distract peripheral matters, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. And finally, those who seek to remove secrecy from the platform on Kosovo and Metohija. I will support their demands once the Kosovo and Metohija AP parliament has revealed its platform for negotiations with Belgrade. At the same time, I will support the idea that the public of this country will also be exposed to the RS government's platform for talks. I know that those who represent this thesis, because of exceptional transparency in every way, has long been unknown to the concept of official, state or military secrets. We, as a society, have become so transparent and naive that we are able to discover the cards and the few contributions in the negotiations that we have, expose our partners to the palm of our hands and thereby reduce our negotiating capacity. Finally, the third position, which is overwhelming, comes from Euro-sceptics, and I am not that much of a Euro-enthusian, but with high respect for the responsible, state-of-the-art, national policy they represent, I must note that this policy is currently devoid of reality. I cannot agree that they are the exclusive protectors of Serbs and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I can't just because I spent my youth and professional life performing responsible duties in Kosovo and Metohija. Perhaps not one step of Kosovo and Metohija without running over it. They represent the claim that conflict in Kosovo and Metohija should be preserved and waited for more favourable international circumstances to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue. What new circumstances will take place, and when? Then when there are no more Serbs in Kosovo, then when we will have fewer opportunities to do anything in Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not bring this resolution today into debate because of Eurointegration, we are making this resolution for us and for this very reason Kosovo, because every day our capacities with regard to the preservation of the state and national interests in Kosovo and the Metohija have been reduced. Who doesn't realize it, then he's playing with reality. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has been in a position since the second half of 1999, until today when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, to say what it does not want and what it does not want. With this resolution, for the first time, this government and the president of this country have the courage to offer a solution and say what they want at this stage of resolving Kosovo's problem. This resolution is a qualitative step towards resolving the Kosovo-Methohic problem. This resolution offers a solution for the first time. It offers a solution, provides a lasting, fair and sustainable solution, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, in line with objective reality on the ground and current international relations. The resolution provides for the active participation of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija in the negotiation process. If the remark has been present so far, it is certain in one of the provisions of this resolution that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija will actively participate in the negotiation process. This resolution obliges the government of the Republic of Serbia to report regularly on the course and results of the negotiations. This resolution protects the fundamental human and minority rights of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. The resolution creates conditions for the sustainable survival of Serbia's and other non-Albanian living in Kosovo and Metohija. This resolution provides broad opportunities for Serbs and other non-Albanians to self-organise life in many areas in Kosovo and Metohija. This resolution creates conditions for the return of displaced faces. This resolution prevents majorisation through the proposed solution of the Kosovo and Metohija assembly. The resolution provides protection of rural enclaves with the majority Serbian and other non-Albanian populations. Serbs from northern Kosovo, Mr. Jaksic will hear me, should not, should have a higher degree of solidarity and responsibility towards Serbs south of Ibra. The fact that 30,000 Serbs, who make up compact and ethnic territory, live north of Ibra, and should not abuse that position, blackmailing the government and this parliament, should have far greater solidarity and responsibility towards Serbs south of Ibra. For the first time, the resolution looks uniquely at the position of Serbs and the northern, south, east and western AP of Kosovo and Metohija and is in that quality. Let us not forget that sixty thousand Serbs live south of Ibra and that Serbs from northern Kosovo have no exclusive right to protect Serbia in all of Kosovo and Metohija. Personally, at a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee a month ago, after the "Insider" series on TV B92, about the criminal activities of Serbs from northern Kosovo, I was against forming a polling committee in this house, thinking it would make it difficult for our team to negotiate with Pristina further, not because I do not think it is. I'm sick of the Serb on call from Kosovo and Metohija, whose patriotism is measured by the amount of money in my pocket, I'm sick of it. Some of them would like to never solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. Believe me, from the point of view of the work I've been doing and what I know about Kosovo and Metohija, some Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija would forever keep Kosovo and Metohija's status as unsolved as this. Mr. Riza Halimi, who I do not see here, what is remarkable in his presentation, says the rights of Albanians in the Presevo Valley are not nearly as close as the rights of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. I would agree that these rights, which Albanians in the Presevo Valley today, are being re-painted to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and I am ready, and I believe most of you, to sign this, such dissuasion and such a poor position. His finding that the lack of development projects, ladies and gentlemen, what have the temporary Kosovo institutions done in the environments where the majority Serbian animal is on the plan of investment and development? Nothing. Unfortunately, we're not like the state either. Please, this resolution, which for the first time, which I am grateful to both the Government and the President for so much courage, offers concrete solutions when it comes to the AP Kosovo and Metohija. It's a qualitative step in relation to so far-freaked politics. I have read all the resolutions and they all start - the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, strongly condemns, calls on the international community, mandates the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take measures to protect the Serbian or other, rather than conjecturing what measures they are, and they are very limited, and you know it. In order not to beg and demand, please support this resolution, because if the Serbs from northern Kosovo, Mr. Jaksic, do not trust this president, do not trust this government and if they blackmail this government, whose support will they have? Where'd you get that kind of mistrust? If you think Tomislav Nikolic and Ivica Dacic will issue vital state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija, then I do not see in this country who could better protect and defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10498	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10499	First thing, please on behalf of the DS MPs that, since the matter is completely clear and clear now, let's all give up further exposure. Consider it an appeal. I think the previous speaker wrote the text of his speech a long time ago. Otherwise, as a general of security, he should know that the government took down the confidentiality mark a long time ago, so we achieved what we wanted. That's how much you should know, General. So you probably criticized Prime Minister Dacic. I don't believe you're us, but let's not get into it. Please move to the vote, since the confidentiality mark has been removed from the platform. That part of the explanation of this resolution is complete. There's nothing to argue about. She doesn't have legal power, though, and we don't vote for her, but she allows us all to plead and end this really long day. I know my appeals won't reach the DSS, but whatever. Sometimes it is good to know where the walls are and where they pass in our parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10500	Thank you. National MP Slobodan Samardzic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10501	Mr. Stojanovic, I don't want to argue with you because I think you know the most about this problem in your MP club, and you have the most understanding of this problem, but I have to react to one thing. You've repeated twice how this resolution first offers something we should do, something we know and what we want, not what we don't want. That's not true. You say you've read the previous resolutions. It really doesn't say much about what we want, because it's not the resolution's task. I would only direct you to the documents available to you. Our platform for negotiations was written in early January 2006, and was published in a daily newspaper of 150,000 circulations and on the government website in May 2006. I get the impression that you didn't read it, because it says what we want. We have a plan Marty Ahtisaari on which over 500 amendments have been tabled which are graphically bold and you can see exactly what is the positive position of our negotiating team on each element of this plan and there is documentation that follows the whole discussion about this plan. If you look at that file, you'll see that in detail it says what we want. You may not agree with that, but you can't claim that this is the first time anyone has said what we want, not what we don't want. As for your discussion on Serbs south and north of Iber in Kosovo, take care of a fact that is newer. When President Nikolic exposed his platform two weeks ago, Serbs came from both the north and the south, for the first time together, or not for the first time, but for the last time together because everyone felt it was a good platform. I don't know how they'll react after these important elements have been cast out, which is why they came together. Just take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10502	Thank you. National MP Marko Jaksic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10503	I want to say next. When it comes to Serbs north of Ibra, they don't blackmail anyone. Mr. Stojanovic best knows that in 1999, when everyone left northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica, police and military area, there were fewer than 300 Serbs left in the city. We have preserved that part of the space and we have preserved the fact that the state of Serbia is entitled to access down to those areas. I think it's very ugly to share Serbs south and north of Iber. We never asked to be special, to separately resolve the fate of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think you have the right to pass it on to us. We're not blackmailing anyone. We are just protecting the institutions of the Serbian state down in that space and we think that none of us are doing it better than we are. On the other hand, God forbid this platform becomes operational. And you and I know only one fact, one thing. In a situation where, no matter how we interpret it, the government has one position, and the president of the country's second position, it's hardly a platform that can be achieved on the ground. What's important and important, at least we know down there is the opposite process. If we want to make it happen, we need to take it from the Albanians, kidnap it. What does that mean? It means we have to organise the province elections, form our executive council, and that we certainly can't do it in a situation where, for example, the SNS upstairs in northern Kosovo didn't invite its members to go to the local elections. The platform is beautiful, but it seems to me that the path to that goal is very long and very difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10504	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10505	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is already very late and we've all lost our nerves, but the subject is important, so we still have to endure. The version of the platform we received from President Nikolic in December differs significantly from the motion for a resolution that stands before us today. I am very sorry that the document, which was important and was very good, was so amended that it was almost unrecognizable now, because behind that document were, most importantly, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and those from both the north and the south of our southern Serbian province, the SPC stood, SANU and most of the Serbian public. Today, I have heard many, many times, how everyone cares about the Serbs who live there. Some call them the Serb people, some call them the Serb community. I would rather call them the Serbian people, because I would not like them to be called the Serb community, because the Serb community lives in Milwaukee, lives in Vienna, and the Serb people live in Kosovo and Metohija. We all know how the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija went. We all know very well that they are the greatest martyrs in the 21st century in European peace, but these people, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, look at Serbia, who they see as their mother. Serbia is their only hope, and Belgrade is their only confidant, was, was and was. But something strange is happening on this platform. It happens that now, as a major solution, some of the indigenous institutions of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, means no more Serbian institutions, but Serbian institutions, which would be indigenous and which Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija would push towards the Shipar state and the Shiptar institutions. It reminds me very much of that proposal for peaceful reintegration of the Sremsko-Baranja area in Croatia, the Independent Republic of Croatia. Is this also about a quasi state of Kosovo that should integrate Serbs with its indigenous Serbian institutions? Today it's very modern to talk about so-called reality on the ground, and that reality is nothing more than blackmailing people alive. They do not blackmail Serbs in Kosovo, Serbs from Serbia or Serbia. Serbs in Kosovo, not giving them the right to move, not giving them the right to drive normally with their cars, with Serbia's license plates, to normally telephone, Serbia does not. It is done by the international community and done by Albanians. However, blackmail cannot be a reason to give legitimacy to a quasi-form, especially when we know that Kosovo's independence is a subsequent justification for a naked force event, which has shown that it can do anything, bomb all of Serbia and destroy even the Chinese embassy. You're talking about attitude, where point one is. – that all agreements with Pristina should be reached with constant agreement with representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, it says here in the resolution. So what is the deal if you go deaf to dissatisfaction and reject this resolution by Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? Then why are you acting like this? I don't believe you when you say it's not about getting a date to start negotiations with the EU. I ask you to listen to the voice of the people, because the people did not vote for you to drag him where Boris Tadic and his company dragged him. You didn't get a mandate from the people to run that same policy, and that's not just a capitulation policy, but it's a disregard for the economic value of Serbian state territory in KIM, which has 75% of Serbia's coal reserves, and the Chinese in Kostolc, which has only 3% of the coal reserves, come to build a new mine, open a new mine and build a new thermo-central. According to mine wealth, Kosovo is a Serbian Siberia, which contains almost all of the metal ores that are present in the Mendeli system of chemical elements. Please stand on the same side the Serbs are on with KIM. Stand on the same side that your people and our people stand on. It is best that where the people stand, check with the referendum on EU accession. You once promised it in the campaign and later, you'd do it. Now's your time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10506	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. BRINSLAV BLAžić: The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, about Kosovo and Metohija, we can speak emotionally and when emotions prevail, then we will talk about Kosovo as our Serbian cradle, our roots, our formation and our duration, our loins, our heaters and shrines, about Kosovo's myth as the eternal core of our spirituality. In this historic drying, when difficult decisions are to be made, as an old European people and states, we do not have the right to act infancy, but reasonablely, nationalally, self-awarely, with the willingness to dialogue and the compromise interest of the peace of common life and the progress of all people living in those areas, but with a red line underlining, Serbia will never recognise, nor agree with a unilaterally declared independent Kosovo. There are groups and individuals who view this problem as tenistic, conformistic, and subjective. For them, everything needs to be given and sold, everything turned over and given up and given up everything that is ours. In their narrow ideological street to which they are going, they hide their egoism and moral indifference by uninterruptingly pointing to the mistakes of Serbia, which were certainly both the product already known to be our exclusiveness and constant insistence in the world of justice and truth, which unfortunately ceased to exist. They even ask Serbia to admit that it is internationally guilty, which requires respect for international law. One question has been withdrawn for a long time, and today it reaches its peak. Is our common consciousness adequate to the crisis in which we are as a society? The crisis is such that today's Serbia's suffering and responsibility for the future of peoples and states should be divided into the entire, patriotic, mental and moral forces of the people. Therefore, the proposal and the idea of the president of the Republic of Mr Nikolic, who is in agreement with the Serbian government, has been translated into this resolution, his desire to take over part of his responsibility for the future of the Kosovo issue, is a moral, reasonable, state and national responsible move. Keeping awareness of their ethnicity and spiritual integrity, the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia, opens the door and extends their hand to dialogue and their constructive proposals and positive energy bring optimism that despite all the hardships with respect for international rights and European values, respect for human and minority rights, the common life of Serbs and Albanians is possible and advanced. The resolution protects Europe's face, but also Serbia and Albanians in Kosovo. Every once in a while, everyone wins. Serbia's territorial integrity and respect for international law, Kosovo Albanians the highest level of national administration, and Europe a stable and peaceful region. If there is not enough common sense, desire and will and respect in the negotiations, there will remain a Kosovo wound that will only depend on its historical existence and events to change its owner. Serbia is the place in the EU. Serbia must strive to defend and respect Europe and the time when Europe respected and respected Serbia. The European Union is not everyone's prosperity and sinlessness. In addition to economic benefits, it is primarily a matter of security and a matter of peace. That is why anyone who calls for the full disintegration of the EU should know that it would be more tragic than the fall of the old Yugoslavia. The European Union, if it wants a peaceful and stable region of the Balkans, must do everything to prevent any territorial claims and ideas about the creation of Greater Albania. Such a dazzling adventure would set the Balkans on fire with inexplicable consequences for Europe as a whole. That is why the Serbian President's initiative to create a multiethnic Kosovo with asymmetric decentralisation of the northern and southern parts is a model that could provide regional stability and progress under the international protectorate by attracting investments and restoring the destroyed Kosovo economy. So the revised and corrected Ahtisaari's plan would be a life-and-applicable model. Further demokaratisation of Kosovo would improve the political climate and relax relations in the environment. Whether the EU and the world are aware enough will show time and their reaction to this resolution. Thank you very much. National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10508	Thank you. So, not to repeat too much, and we have to do something, our impression is that the text of the resolution that lies ahead is a step further than the platform that was seen by the president of the country a few weeks ago. A step backwards is because certain elements guaranteeing a state connection between the work of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia themselves are being lost. It is lost here somewhere, and the resolution itself is more like today's resolution on Eurointegration than the resolution that needs to protect the territorial integrity of the Serbian state, especially if it is in the light of all those regulations, something earlier in today's controversy said, such as the sub-point g) of point 1 that talks with representatives of the provisional institutions in Pristina and any agreement reached should contribute to Serbia's European integration. On the side of how we view European integrations both in the EU and Serbia's future position, it is completely abnormal for this formulation to stand in the text on the issue of the defence of the integrity of the state and this integration in this way, especially if we know that most EU members, in the end, and their working mechanism, are subject to the pressure of their essential members, actually made permanent factual pressure by Serbia, not to formally recognise independent Kosovo, but to contribute to the realisation of Ahtisaari's independent Kosovo. So it's not in the function of realising the project that the government was talking about, and at least in the function of realising the platform that we had the opportunity to see two or three weeks ago. There is still, so much time left, and I have, to clarify another issue that has been mentioned today, and this is about - what is the goal of the negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina? You're saying it's a comprehensive solution, but I don't see how we'll ever talk the other side into honest and fair negotiations with us, even if the result of those negotiations came in 40 years, if our starting positions in which we put ourselves are not the same. Albanians in KIM have put themselves in one starting position, as they want to see, the independence of that part of Serbian territory. They say KIM is independent. Look what we say. We're just saying -- we'll never admit to KIM's independence. Instead of having a proactive attitude, and saying that we see a solution to the problem, and that's not true that zero is the position to continue negotiations. That zero position is never set in a valid way, at least not during those who started these so-called. technical negotiations from this previous government, and as I can see, you have no intention of that either. So, the idea of essential autonomy and the law on essential economics came from us. We talked to the President of the Republic about it, and what is now being realised in practice through the resolution as an addition to this expensive, as an idea of essential autonomy, which should arise as a law and as a consequence of the negotiations that will be carried out, it simply does not solve the problem. So, one,-- in the beginning we'll find ourselves in an unequal position. We'll start with our own ideas about status neutrality, which is not normal for the state. The Albanian side will go into a position of confidence that they have full independence. We can't put ourselves in that position. So we don't tie our hands, we don't limit ourselves when we bring into this assembly the law on essential autonomy, with all the prerogatives that he should look like, according to our seeing things. That doesn't stop the negotiations. Then the other side says that's why they won't negotiate, because by that same logic, we can say that we won't negotiate with the other side because it unilaterally declared independence. Do you understand the deficit of your view of things? Why is he like this? Why are you guys turning things around? Why don't we pass a law on essential autonomy right now, i.e. This constitutional law? Because of what you think, and we are going back to the beginning of the story, that someone will be offended and that we will have a deficit in EU accession negotiations, because the one who is offended will be the EU with our behaviour, because they will not allow us to move on. Our answer is, and I believe, and I am sure that this answer is on behalf of most Serbian citizens, regardless of what someone here says and for example said -- you know, there's a minority, everyone else is against you. Let's see what that's like in reality? Most Serbian citizens can say in this situation – so what. If there's an alternative solution, we've offered an alternative solution. We offer it for this resolution, through amendments that you have not accepted. We offer it for the economy of Serbia and for the recovery of the state, completely past the EU mechanism, which even in that sense is a noose around the door and we see no reason for this view of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and so far no healthy argument, except for the fear of themselves and of citizens that all will fail if Serbia does not enter the EU, we have not seen. So when someone offers a rational concept... . (President: Time. I'm done. ... how in the only possible way you can get out of this dead end and that some negotiations ever give a comprehensive solution, we get into a problem that we can never get out of. In fact, that's what this resolution brings. I'm very sorry that she went very far compared to that previous, first text, which was given in the platform of the president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10509	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10510	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yes, I was asked by one of my present friends, who is tired, and you, for God's sake, about Kosovo, and for so much work all day, so he's very tired, but I'm a friend to him too, and because of him, I will because he's not responsible for what I'm about to say now. It has not been easy for many today to speak, and I thank those who have brought suffering, and it has been even harder to listen to today. If there's anything to be done in the end, I've personally experienced a whole series of talk from superficiality and indifference, as a personal insult. Let me, on behalf of everyone who feels that way, apologize to those citizens who, during this discussion, have also experienced so much as an insult. You don't have to waste any more words about it today, go to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-12-0.u10511	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a resolution. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines Sunday, January 13, 2013, starting at 00:35 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I'm setting a five-minute break, just so we can have time for all the MPs, who may be in the Assembly building, to enter the O.R. We'll be back to work in five minutes. I ask the MPs to stay in the O.R. so we don't lose more than those five minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue to work on a decision-making process. In order to be able to approach the vote, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 165 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a RESOLUATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON BASE PRIOR PRIORITIES FOR POLICIAL TALKS WITH THE Interim INSTITUTIONS OF COST AND METHOCHY As the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the motion for a resolution, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the basic principles for political talks with the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174 against – 20 abstentions – there are no, they have not voted – two of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a resolution, in principle. Before we move to a decision on the amendments, I remind you that MP Goran Bogdanovic, by written means, has withdrawn the amendment that adds point 5a after point 5a. I also remind you that an integral part of the motion for a resolution has become the amendments of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija to be submitted to the preamble and points 1 and 2. The motion for a resolution, because they were accepted by the proposing representative, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes that these amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the preamble of the motion for a resolution, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Jaksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 178, of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the preamble of the motion for a resolution, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Milica Delevic, Jelena Trivan, Gordana Comic and Janko Vesenovic. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 35, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 161 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the preamble of the motion for a resolution, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Jaksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 179 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Jaksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 179 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Milica Delevic, Jelena Trivana, Gordana Comić and Janko Vesenovic submitted together. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 35, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 161 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Jaksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 180 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Jaksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 179 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Jaksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 179 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the point of the 1st amendment, MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Jaksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted together. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 179 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Milica Delevic, Jelena Trivana, Gordana Comic and Janko Vesenovic. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 35, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 161 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Milica Delevic, Jelena Trivana, Gordana Komic and Janko Veselinovic. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 162, of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Jaksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 179 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Milica Delevic, Jelena Trivana, Gordana Comic and Janko Vesenovic. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. `I conclude the vote and declare: for – 35, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 161 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 161 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the motion for a resolution in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the basic principles for political talks with the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – 19, the abstentions – there are no, they did not vote two, of a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the basic principles for political talks with the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. I ask the Members of Parliament to continue our work. [[Applause]] I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 12 January 2013, at 14 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – four, abstention – one, they did not vote 153, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 12 January 2013, at 14 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: four, against – five, abstentions – no, 120 did not vote, of a total of 129 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 12 January 2013, at 19 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – three, abstentions – there is no vote, not 111 out of 117 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you, everyone.
