ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24547	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 67 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24548	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a new working day again with a delay of 20 minutes and a reason to advertise Article 88. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I understand you were on a landing yesterday, if there was a job fair in the Arena, but we'd be working here for a while. I ask you regardless of your wishes to enter Europe in 2020, to show that desire first in Parliament and to come to work at 10 o'clock and to begin sessions at 10 o'clock. I understand both the landing and the employment fair yesterday in Arena. I understand all the valid reasons, but I don't understand a 20-minute delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24549	Thank you. I must remind myself that it is the obligation of all the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia to attend meetings of the National Assembly and to insert cards into parliamentary units to enable the work of the National Assembly. Of course, MPs who have more important things to do should be told to the citizens. Today is also on the basis of article 287. The Rules of Procedure Members of the People have the right to request information, explanations. Is that what any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to do? The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24550	Thank you. I have a few questions. My first question was addressed to the Minister of Education. In fact, in public, but also in recent times and on numerous social networks, there is one complete doubt as to whether there will be two or seven subjects at the next graduation, or whether there will be two or three tests. In the event that it is three tests, my question of the Minister of Education is – what is the content of that third test, or what is by law and what are these, in general, EU standards? I have a second question for the Minister of Health. They're extremely brief and precise. Namely, how long are you waiting for the installation of an artificial knee, and in the context of that, is it possible to pay out of your own pocket without coming across the line and doing the surgery? My third question is to be referred to by the Minister of Trade and the Minister of Agriculture, so I would like to ask both of you if they can answer me. The daily press unequivocal statements by the Minister of Trade that he is against naturally GMO food. At the same time, from the Minister of Agriculture, we could listen to statements as well as written statements that GMOs are actually completely harmless to human health, and that as an expert and as a scientist, according to all of his statements that he has made so far, he is actually in favour of a legislation that would justify such a thing. So that the same question would not be asked by the Minister of Health, although perhaps she should answer this question, I have one general question, and for the Minister of Trade and the Minister of Agriculture, is there even a government position, if that is the government's position on GMOs? Of course, in this place, I'll use some more questions to ask the Minister of Agriculture. Since the report of the European Commission, which we were able to have insight into, Chapter 33, Chapter 11, the weakest assessment of Chapter 33, and our SPO and DHSS parliamentary group were the most critical ones, is the areas of finance and agriculture. My first question, Minister of Agriculture, is when and at all will a strategy on the development of agriculture be prepared and adopted? The second question is – from the approved meat export quota, how much meat has indeed been exported, and is it true that only one fifth has been exported, and if only one fifth has been exported, why has such a thing been done? I also have a question for the finance minister, since I have already mentioned that chapters 33 and 11 are the weakest ones in the European Commission's report. In view of the fact that according to the official data of the NBS Bank in Serbia in the previous year, 400m euros were earned and only on bank fees and fees, given that it was precisely in our country in the Republic of Serbia that bank fees and fees were charged excessively in relation to what is the usual practice in the Western world, did the Ministry of Finance carry out and did some analysis of the possible taxation of this part of the bank's profits, which is an uncredited business arrangement of banks, and as such does not affect reserve credit capital, and since this part of the bank's profits can result in a tax burden part of the financing for the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24551	MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24552	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today it is 21 years since the abduction and murder of 16 Bosniaks from the North of Pribo in the village of Mioce, carried out by members of the military formation "Revealers" headed by Milan Lukic. On that day 16 Bosniaks took the bus from their residence in the North to Priboj for work and they were abducted by that formation, taken to Visegrad, there were tortured and in a cruel way killed. For this crime, the Belgrade District Court sentenced four people to 15 to 20 years in prison. Today, however, it is not enough just to feel compassion for families, relatives, friends and compatriots of innocently murdered Bosniaks from Priboj. Nothing I say today should remain just a mere memory of the victims of that monstrous crime and of the routine regret. Today, we need to make it clear that many of the perpetrators of this crime are still at large and are not prosecuted or arrested. The Liberal Democratic Party condemns the lack of the desire of some state judicial authorities to prosecute this crime by the end and, most importantly, to reveal the political background and responsibility of some of the people who were in power at the time, for which there is sufficient evidence from the processes so far established. Also, the anniversary of the abduction of our fellow citizens should also be an unpleasant reminder of the tragic consequences of a policy that has ultimately destroyed both in moral and in every sense our society. The Liberal Democratic Party believes it is necessary for victims and families of the kidnapped and killed in the North to give the necessary fair compensation. That is why I am asking Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Minister for Labour and Employment, Social Policy – how long has it been since families kidnapped from the North have recognised the status of civilian war victims? On the anniversary of this, the LDP expresses its deepest sympathy with the families of the victims and the dissatisfaction over the absence of Serbia's full co-operation with the families of the victims, and we hope that in the coming period we will succeed in bringing all those who committed this terrible crime to justice because we owe it, both to families and to the future of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24553	Thank you. The word has Dr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24554	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President of the Assembly, all of us, all of Serbia's public opinion, are witnessing election chaos in Kosovo and Metohija. The question I want to ask is about the government or someone in the government who is responsible for this election, I don't know if it's the Ministry of State Administration, which would be normal or the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, which would also be normal, or whether it's a KIM office or a special personality. On the occasion of the election and this situation in Kosovo, in public opinion from our politicians, mostly Prime Minister Dacic, Vice President Vukic, President Nikolic, appears but we do not see anyone from ministers who may be in charge. This may actually be saying that there is a mess in the government itself over these elections and that there is no portfolio or ministry or personality that follows responsiblely and competently these elections. If there's absolute chaos in the field, it's known to everyone, and that's why I'd like to ask the question of who's responsible in the government, and let them see for themselves who's going to answer this question. We only found out a few days ago that the voter list is over. He is being made in Pristina, in the Central Election Commission. We see that there are some 85,000 Albanians who allegedly have a residence north of Ibra, and they will be part of that voter list and part of the election process, we see that many people who have applied to that form from Pristina, refugees and displaced persons, are not on that list, we see that RIK has nothing to do with these elections, as if they are being held abroad, and they appear to be being held abroad. So there's a lot of weird stuff, anomalies, illegal shops and procedures, and at least someone from this government should explain what it's about. What is last is the fact that because of these 8,400 Albanians now focus, so to the north of Kosovo, but not only because of this fact, but because the electoral body of northern Kosovo, most Serbs, does not want to go to these elections, the boycott is very obvious, their fight against these elections is clear and it is clear that one huge percentage will boycott these elections. Therefore, the government is now seeking to compensate the number with some of the people in this list formed in Belgrade, which has been sent to the Central Election Commission, some of whom, as we know, have been accepted in the voter's list, and it is likely that a certain illegal action or manipulation is being prepared. So, we have enough reason to ask ourselves - what exactly is this really about, what is this about, who is running the circuit here, who is the hair, who is wearing the water? It seems to me that our state authorities are carrying water, and the authorities in Kosovo are leading the main role here, and they're just like a service that needs to supplement these lists with a number of people, and there, in that relationship, there are some tensions, and that's like the main theme of our political advances and what public opinion is being told. Namely, my main question now, and I want to ask the representatives of the authorities, is – where, in which place, displaced persons will vote in close Serbia, i.e. in Serbia outside Kosovo? The issue is completely unclear, although we have some information on how elections are going to take place in Kosovo and they are actually testifying to this chaos that I am talking about, it is absolutely unclear this first. There are certain speculations that the polling stations in Serbia won't even be there. This means that these people, whom is a small number relative to the number of displaced persons, will vote in the post office. The question arises – is it true? Let someone from the government respond as soon as possible – where will the polling stations be designated, or, if not, will they be voted by mail? If so, where will these voices be gathered, these envelopes that these unfortunates will vote on, and who will count those votes? These are things that are completely unclear. It is absolutely certain that these facts are kept secret, because what I'm talking about, possibly that they will vote in the mail and so many people, is actually talking about one open possibility of counterfeiting and manipulation. So, with the other information we're looking for, we're looking for this particular answer as soon as possible. In the end, just one message. The election is coming out of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24555	National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24556	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask my question today to the health minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. What is the plan of the Ministry of Health in terms of dental care and dental services throughout Serbia? The second question is - how many complaints have arrived at health homes at this time by employees in dental services in Serbia and how many of these lawsuits have been ruled in favour of prosecutors, or dentists? How many people in Serbia remain out of contract with the Republic Health Insurance Fund at the moment, and are employed in dental services? In the end, what does the Minister of Health plan to do about this problem? So, I'm talking about a serious problem that has existed in our health care system for many years, which we've never been able to get an answer to. In 2007, the then Minister of Health, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic, decided that dental health care should be released across the water and that actually dentists and their technicians, i.e. the entire service should earn its own salary. In these circumstances for many years, we had a situation where these dental employees were employed in the public sector of the second order, i.e., they had no right to jubilee awards, they had no right to other employee benefits, they had no right to severance fees. Some of them have sued their homes of health, and as a rule, all these claims have managed to make up for their costs, causing serious damage to Serbia's health system. In 2011, trying to remove this problem, the ministry's administration then decided to transfer a number of people to the contract and sign an official contract with the Republic Fund, so that the state would actually have accurate knowledge of how many employees in the service are engaged in dentistry. But we have now come up with an incredible situation, which is that within one service, in one health home, you have persons working on a contract with the Republic Fund, you have people who don't work, and they come to work every day, and they work and they can't earn their salary. This system is unsustainable and I ask the Minister of Health to look at the problem in a responsible way, that in fact all persons who are working in our health homes continue to be in a working relationship, to be in a contract with the Republic Fund, and then that this problem will be seen by keeping the corresponding number of people in service and allowing others with appropriate programmes to do so in the private sector. This system, the existing system, is expensive, unsustainable, and I think this is how we put the same service, the same dental staff in Serbia's health homes. Realising the needs of the City of Belgrade, Novi Sad, as well as the needs of central Serbia and creating a quality system that will allow dental health care, according to Serbia's Health Council and enlargement, to expand the number of services provided through a valid healthcare system. The fact is that our dental system is outdated, the fact is that the state of the nation's health is catastrophic and that these are the measures that are necessary to implement within a very short time. That is why I ask the minister to respond quickly, and I hope that these measures, that is, the programme which will address this problem, will enter the budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24557	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24558	Dear President of the National Assembly, fellow MPs, I have questions for the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Professor Dr Dragan Glamočić. My questions concern non-commercial family agricultural holdings. At a session of the National Assembly, held on 16 July this year, I asked the Minister of Agriculture at the time -- did sublaws provide for a range of incentives for non-commercial family agricultural holdings? I asked the question, given that he's a 6. The Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development foresees that the minister is closer to prescribing the types of incentives for this, i.e. non-commercial family agricultural holdings. In response to the question raised, the Government, in accordance with the Law on Budgetary and Rural Development Encouragements, adopted the Regulation on the distribution of incentives in agriculture and rural development for 2013 and that this Regulation did not provide for incentives for non-commercial family agricultural holdings. It is clear that these holdings were left without incentives in 2013, but it is not clear what the policy of the resolution ministry is in relation to these holdings. I believe that the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture should establish and establish a special policy of support and help non-communicated family agricultural holdings for several reasons. First of all, because of the large number of agricultural holdings. Of the approximately 780,000 registered agricultural holdings in our country, about 470,000 are commercial and the rest are non-commercial. It is easy to calculate that the share of non-commercials in the total number of agricultural holdings is about 40%. Also, I believe that this is extremely important because of the fact that this is mainly about small and less wealthy agricultural land, that these holdings mean existential, especially the food security of a part of our population, that they are becoming more and more common because of the situation in the economy, the only jobs of a number of workers who have lost their jobs in the past period. I also believe that small agricultural holdings are important from the aspect of our agricultural production in general, that they have certain comparative advantages compared to large ones, and that they represent an important potential for some future development of agriculture in our country, such as. organic production. When I talk about this, in addition to this, I also have in mind the report of 400 global agricultural experts and scientists gathered in the UN project, which was funded by the World Bank and UNESCO on the subject of "International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for the Future", which clearly states that the future of agriculture is in small agricultural land. I also note that many international organisations, the UN, the International Labour Organisation, the International Employers' Organisation, supported this report and concluded that agriculture, especially those involved in organic production and those taking place on small agricultural land, is one of the four main sectors for the creation of millions of new jobs in the 21st century. So I think that the state should also encourage non-commercial family agricultural holdings, strengthen them, and make them an important commercial food producer in our country as soon as possible. Starting with the above, my questions for the Minister of Agriculture are the following. Will the Ministry of Agriculture also provide support and assistance to non-communicative family agricultural holdings and will the planned appropriations of the agrarian budget for 2014 also be the means to encourage these landowners? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24559	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24560	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, you know very well when I get to talk about health problems, so this time I'm going to open up a lot of problems that are plagued by Serbian citizens. Believe me, this time too, I speak exclusively on behalf of citizens who face a major problem every day in their healing process. A few days ago, we heard from the Minister of Health that there was a shortage of drugs, a shortage of stents, a complete collapse in health care. I ask the question of the Minister of Health and the Republic Government – who put these directors and the incompetent directors that led to the collapse of the health system? I don't think they're as responsible as the Republic Government is. I'll tell you a few examples. A 16-year-old girl who is due to have a lung transplant, which is the country's priority, received a letter from the RFZO saying she should be patient by the age of 18, because since 18, the state has recognised her. I'm asking you -- how can someone with 20% lung function survive by the age of 18, and how is this administration of this republican government put above the lives of this 16-year-old girl who's supposed to go on a lung transplant? I'm asking you a question for a six-year-old New South American who suffers from Batten's disease – how can the state not see her either? How come the state doesn't see our citizens' problems? How the state, even though there are conditions for treating children... I'm going to tell you about a kid who's from Nis, who's been distracted in the development and who has 93% twisted spine. There's a doctor on VMA and there's a possibility of surgery. However, someone is asking for 650,000 dinars for her operation, for transplants during the operation. These are problems we can't keep quiet about. I am publicly opening these problems before you, before the Parliament and before you, President, hoping that we will forward them to the Republic Government and that the Republic Government will take responsibility. October is the month of fighting breast cancer. I ask you – do you know how many mammographers in Serbia are working or, rather, how many mammographers in Serbia are not working? I personally became convinced that even at the Clinical Center in Nis, the digital mammogram is not working. The Italian government gave it to us, and that mammographer isn't working. Where do women look for salvation if they suspect they have a change on their breast? Where patients suffering from malignant tumours can be treated in the state of Serbia? I'm going to point out the problem I've been talking about for two years, which is the treatment of cancer patients. Does the Minister of Health realize that patients are waiting for air therapy at the clinic center for more than two months? Does the health minister realize that in Novi Sad, citizens with malignant tumours are waiting for more than two months for air therapy? Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I speak to you as a doctor, if you lose a week after surgery and do not start with air therapy, the percentage of patient survival decreases significantly. These are the priorities we need to talk about. What can we talk about about the lack of stents, the lack of artificial hips, the lack of artificial waves, the lack of cohnioplants, the lack of aracene tubes? Someone's finally got to be guilty. It is impossible for us in Serbia to create all these waiting lists and that no one is to blame. Someone must finally be held accountable. I keep repeating repeatedly -- the priority of the Serbian state is the health of its nation, the health of its citizens. There's no politics here. It's a policy of life that needs to unite us all. As for cataract surgery, we talked about it a year ago and it caused a violent reaction. The problem that was then opened was 20,000 citizens awaiting cataract surgery. My dears, the current condition is 24,000. So 4,000 citizens were added to the list. Instead of getting rid of a waiting list of 20,000 citizens to operate, we now have 24,000. I really can't believe it's so irrelevant for the Ministry of Health anymore, for the Republic Fund. I don't know what the priority is. Are the declared actions of the Ministry of Health – we go home, we measure weight and measure the height of Serbian citizens, so that we can determine whether the Serbian nation is sick? The Serbian nation is ill, Minister. The Serbian nation is collapsed as far as the health system is concerned. If you can't solve that problem, move, someone else who can solve problems will come. Serbian citizens lose battle daily with their illness because there is no organised system that provides them with adequate treatment. Once again, I appeal to the consciousness of the Republic Government, that we finally all consider ourselves and that health must not be spared and that no measure of restrictions should affect the health of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24561	National MP Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24562	Dear President of the Assembly, Dr Stefanovic, dear colleagues, colleagues, respected viewers, based on Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 20/2012, consolidated text, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia a parliamentary question – when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia submit a proposal for media laws to the Assembly? The explanation -- in recent weeks, we have been able to hear a message from the European Union that media laws are of crucial importance for a positive report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress on the path of Eurointegration. Personally, I share such an opinion, given first of all, the media price of Serbia, which is not regulated and does not meet the needs of objective and impartial informing Serbian citizens. I'd say it's the best fit for media owners. There is a lot of examples, a mass of examples, where it is done so to say private accounts through various media, electronic and written and other texts, and where, in any case, no one has ever held any responsibility. Property in Serbian media must be transparent to the end. Only in this way can media wars be eliminated, which individuals of the interest group lead, confusing citizens and distracting them from essential problems. There's another much bigger problem. What does it mean if some media that owns certain stakeholders publish for a bank that that bank is in front of bankruptcy, it's bad. That means the citizens' stampede towards that bank to raise the last penny. That means destroying competition. This has not been contacted by our antimonopoly committee, i.e. The sanctioning committee of such cases, and there are quite a few, or if they set an example, and then they say from tomorrow it collects sugar, oil, or it will accumulate, it is learned from well-informed sources. This means automatically empty shelves, everything disappears from the store, however, there are no sanctions for it and so far no one has been sanctioned. I think the Serbian government must be up-to-date. The start of the negotiations is coming. So he should take full responsibility for the state of public information, especially in these times. I expect the bill to be delivered as soon as possible. Of course, I advocate that a public debate, which is under way, be held before the debate in the Assembly. To consult professional associations, media, citizens will be familiar with all the proposals, ideas from the debate. What do we have as damages in recent times that are very relevant for the survival of Serbia, for the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? That's one example that's really devastating for all of us. For example, we have in the media that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, most do not want to go to the elections, but we have another situation, quite the opposite, that the majority who want to go to the elections, who wants to vote and who is in Serbia and who is in Kosovo and Metohija, are simply losing their right to various manipulations by the Central Election Commission in Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that the sooner the media needs to be arranged in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24563	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, report to the floor, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the following MPs have been prevented from attending the sittings: MP Milica Dronjak, MP Borislav Pelevic, MPs Branko Gogić, Jadranka Joksimović, Igor Bečić, Meho Omerović, Dragan Sutanovac, Miroljub Stojčić, Nenad Konstantinović, Ivan Andrić and Jelena Travar Miljevic. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that I am in addition to the representative of the motions Dr Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, I am invited to attend Brankica Janković and Stana Bozovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, Dragan Vulović, Head of the Department of Administrative and Control Affairs in the field of Family Protection at the Ministry, Radoje Savicevic, Head of the Group for International Social Insurance Agreements in the Ministry and Dragan Knezevic, Directorate for Gender Equality at the Ministry. We are continuing a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 9 to 12 of the agenda. Next reported MP of the people, Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24564	President of the Assembly, Vice-President of the Government, we have debated this item of the agenda on Thursday in a rather infamous way because until the last moment we have had almost absolute political consensus here in the room that violence against women and violence in the family is a huge social problem, that the DS also requires serious action and that it requires the consent of all political parties because it is about civilizational attitudes and values to oppose such a phenomenon. Nevertheless, we have ended up with the thesis of a national MP, it is absolutely irrelevant from which political parties, that Serbia is threatened by delinquent women's groups and that women, among the ranks, read, sometimes deserve the violence that is happening against them. Why would I bring that up? Because the World Health Organization, speaking of the problem of violence against women and domestic violence, said that one of the key ways to deal with it is to admit the problem. That sounds rather banal, but when you look at the way Serbia reacts to violence against women, you will see that it is at a level of disgust over any black chronicle or complete denial. Most societies show a tendency to deny it, because it opposes our traditional and tomatically seeing ourselves and the Serb family who do not tend to such forms of behavior. However, statistics show that in this year alone, 20,000 cases of domestic violence have been reported, and only one reported to ten violent acts. So multiply how many really, such cases have happened. Unfortunately, they also say, those who deal with language morphology, the history of language that folk proverbs speak of our collective memory and our collective values, and our proverbs say this - when you get up you hit a woman, if you don't know why she knows. Every woman has one rib more or more brothers and ox myths, a woman and a horse to beat. These are the collective attitudes that we should fight because when we look at the statistics of violence and the answers that women don't report, it's primarily the infidelity of the environment they're facing, it's the irritation that I'm talking about where everyone's going to say it's impossible for so many cases to happen. The other thing that every woman, so for God's sake and child's sake, is prejudice and premonition that every violence is actually deserved. That there must actually be a reason why someone becomes a victim of violence. Sadly, we could hear that in the congregation room. That's what we could hear some of us saying, that we have to talk openly about both the roots of violence and that sometimes manipulative behavior and sexual manipulation of women cause that kind of behavior. My dears, I must tell you that violence has never been justified, that it is so embarrassing to talk about something that is happening in the family. Most importantly, family life is not a private sphere and it is not a private matter, as if both the life of a woman and a child does not depend on a man and does not lie in his hands. We have the right to talk about it here today and we have the right to condemn anyone who thinks so. In that sense, anyone who thinks it belongs to him – I was born, I will kill you, must encounter the harsh sanctioning of the state because women and children are exposed to two types of violence. One thing is private domestic violence, and the other is even worse, it's structural violence or violence of the state. First of all, it looks at the anxiety of the problem. It is reflected in the fact that when 20,000 women report domestic violence, only 700 violent people get a distance, the rest stay at home and continue to beat them up. It is seen that safe houses, em are few, em are financially unsustainable, and yet even there is a bully who can come and beat up a dead woman and child. That only after that the whole society gets up in defense and we start thinking about which institution will take responsibility for protecting the security of safe houses. Is it possible that we, as a society, will protect safe houses as institutions from bullys or we will start using the mechanisms we already have, that the thugs will be where they belong, and not after they commit domestic violence continue to carry out in safe houses where women are called safe. What is important today is that when you talk to women, some of them are considered to be blessed, thinking that the fact that they have never been beaten in life makes them that privileged group of women who have never experienced violence, and that in this sense, as a parliament, we should educationally talk about all the violence against women and why statistics say that every third woman has survived some form of violence. Because violence and exclusion are from making decisions, and women are excluded from making decisions, both in the family and in society. Where decisions are made at the highest level, there are almost no women, and in the family is the most important decision from economic character to the fate of a man's family. Even motherhood is not a woman's autonomous decision in the patriarchal environment. There is no true partnership in the family and this represents violence against women who do not have the opportunity to participate equally in anything called household management. They've been excluded from the education of women in the country, I don't need to explain it to you, men have always been the ones one community chooses to go to further school, and it's never happened that a representative of the house is a woman and today suffers from the inability of the same approach to education, especially in rural areas. Of course, exclusion from economic flows, also a kind of violence against women, and if you see only 12% of Serbia's assets and immovableities intercede women, then you will realize that this is also one of the kinds of violence because it is economically weak, and it is an absolutely ideal target for every kind of manipulation, violence and pressure. If you look at what the media is doing, you will also see that a woman is shown in one context of the object of living meat, decorations, decorations and so on, an unequal being and that the appearance of the starlet, strippers and promotions of these values, such as, these persons as representatives of the female sex, also speaks of a social denial of the role of a woman, as a person who, at this point, represents a bearer of rural production, economic progress and represents a majority in the most important social areas, such as justice, education and so forth. You can hear that about a congregation speaker, but in the media you will very little see such models of women, women on whom education, economics and the future of this society stand. So I think that we here are obliged to tell women from this place that the conventions are good, that we will vote for them, that we are all united around them, but that they are not enough if in our daily engagement we do not understand the importance of these problems and we do not understand the size of these problems. To prove to you the size of the problem, I'll only tell you official WHO data, every three minutes one woman has been abused, and every five minutes one woman has been raped. So, 80% of the violence is made by partners, 75% of women suffer long years of violence, and 52% of women suffer violence every day. So it's not something that happens to others, it's not something that's far from us and our lives, and that's what we have to talk about every day, every day, something we do every day, and when someone in the assembly room dares to say that it's a phenomenon that has caused women themselves, we all have to stand up to these stereotypes that have led women and children to be victims today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24565	The word has a folk MP, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24566	Thank you, esteemed chairman. We have, in front of us really two today, but the two I want to talk about, the conventions, and I would agree with my colleagues and listen carefully to what my colleague Elena Trivan said, I have to say that these numbers sound scary. The first step we need to take is to be aware that we need to face the fact that there is to a serious extent violence against women in this country. An unacceptable number of women, and I find it unacceptable when a woman suffers violence in our country. We don't talk, and we especially need to talk about that a large number of children who observe it or is a direct victim of violence are also going through hell in their lives. I don't think we should forget that first step, admit that violence exists. I expect of all colleagues, especially from colleagues, because colleagues have shown seriousness in this approach, to talk about this problem. I expect men to face their own problem and send a clear signal that we will not make peace, nor that we are such a country, nor that we are such people, that someone in this country can harass women, that someone deceives it, to show it in a different way, to turn his head. I'm not talking about thugs. We'll give them a clear message. We will be ready to strengthen and tighten criminal legislation in this National Assembly and send a clear message to the whole world that the Republic of Serbia wants to be a country where violence, whether it is against women or children, will never tolerate it. I think it's an important message, a very important message for our society. Please be unique in this, to show that by ratifying the Istanbul Convention, we want to send a clear message that Serbia is one of those countries that wants to protect human rights, which wants to defend women's rights. I'm not ashamed to say, I belong to the work, I belong to men, I don't want there to be people beating their wives, and we're going past that and we're turning our heads. We must be prepared to brand and condemn that kind of behavior, because it must never be acceptable in Serbia. As far as the second convention concerning international adoption is concerned. We have a document before us that will guarantee special protection for children without parental ageing and indicates, and you know that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, precisely recognising the need to especially protect children, specifically defined a set of their special rights, but also the right to enjoy human rights, appropriate to its age and mental maturity. It has been observed that a number of children, especially those with special needs, cannot find foster and foster families in their wives. That is why one of the important reasons for ratification of this Convention is being brought in to allow these children, if they cannot find happiness, to find a better childhood in this country, to do so in another country. Of course, in no way is this contrary to our Constitution. We have the Convention provided a guarantee that maximum security, predictability and transparency will be provided for all participants in the adoption process, including potential adoptrs. What is very important is the ban on obtaining financial profits in this process. I think it's in the best interests of the child and the ratification of this convention will be something important for our country, but most important for those children we provide for a better life. I call on you to be unique in this and to adopt these conventions, send a clear sign that the country wants to move forward, move in a different way forward and give the citizens of Serbia a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24567	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24568	The President-in-Office, the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join this appeal sent by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Stefanovic, and I really believe that in this respect we should be unique. I just don't know, Mr. Stefanovic, what's the real attitude of the SNS? What you said today, which we absolutely support both me and DS or what Mr. Giric said at 17.43 p.m. on Thursday, before the chairman interrupted the session on a very important topic, so that you could arrive at a very important BIA celebration, is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24569	Mr. Veselinović, let's stick to the subject please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24570	I didn't think Mr Stefanovic would have arrived, but that all of you would have arrived at the BIA celebration, those invited, which is very unusual for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to interrupt the session for the celebration of such an institution. Mr. Giric, before the session was interrupted, Mr. Stefanovic said the following - also not sufficiently transparently given the opportunity to examine the victims of violence in detail, i.e. to the extent that the victim himself is provoking violence through a series of procedures and activities, therefore, as much as the victim provokes violence. What is her responsibility, especially in marriage communities where the possibilities of various social, psychological and sexual manipulations of women are very present and rarely abused long before the result of this kind of provocation, or physical violence, in the family? This also requires the need for a serious future approach to this gender problem, even through the adoption of laws on the protection of men. Also, women are most often psychologically and verbally, manipulatively, socially and economically dominantly than men, equating the power of their tools in conflict with the results of comparing violence. When colleagues from the DSS pointed out everything the gentleman, your colleague said, he said – you may not have listened from the beginning to an organized, delinquent group of women. So our colleagues who talked about this topic called organized delinquent groups of women acting, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24571	Mr. Veselinović, please return to the agenda topic, you are trying to convince what happened during the last session. Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24572	I'm going to finish now, the chairman, since you've interrupted me in a very incorrect way. There is no point in talking about what a colleague said about the law and how he refers to violence in the family of women, children and men. If that's not the subject, I don't know what the other topic might be, I was just trying to say that we should be more consistent with women's protection, so I could say how generally violence in society provokes violence against women, so how much amnesty of those people who have committed violence in families has led to new violence, how much violence in the media that we have every day is provoking violence, how much violence on the streets, and how much bullying, leads to new violence in the family.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24573	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, do you want a replica? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24574	Just once again, I'd like to make it very clear that I have both my own attitude and my SNS attitude. There is no possibility for us to tolerate violence against any woman. I am absolutely and absolutely behind this as chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, along with all the colleagues who worked with us, that such a possibility never exists in the SNS. We will absolutely fight that every woman, not only gets protection, but that we are working to change the consciousness of our society and that violence against women, against children, is something that is absolutely unacceptable, that no one can think about it, and that society is ready to clearly label those who are violent and show that in Serbia such a policy will be implemented. That's all I want to say for the public, that's SNS's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24575	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24576	Thank you. Dear President, Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I am pleased that a large number of my colleagues and colleagues spoke about the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. This shows that we recognize violence against women and domestic violence as one of the most important problems in our society. The main objective of the Convention is to strengthen the capacity of institutions and organisations involved in victims of violence, as well as to define and implement mechanisms to ensure compliance with the obligations set out in the Convention. This is the most comprehensive international contract in this area, which provides for mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of the Convention, the establishment of an expert group tasked with data collection, analysis and publication of results. International monitoring is also very important, as is connecting with other signatories. In Serbia, every third woman is a victim of violence, and domestic violence is the most common type of violence in our society. She's worried that violence against women is on the rise. Victims of violence expect greater service engagement through support, through understanding of the problem, to provide assistance, so it is necessary to hire state authorities, national, regional and local congregations and administrations, state institutions... (President: National MPs, just turn the microphone towards yourself. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... to protect human rights, civil society organisations, and public information funds. It is important that all of these organisations implement awareness raising programmes in the public on various manifestations of all kinds of violence, their consequences, the need to prevent violence. We all have the right to live in a safe environment, to feel safe. We have an obligation to all together to create a society that will stand up to violence. Although progress has been made, not only the proposal to adopt this Convention, but also the adoption of a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against women in the family, partner relations, there is much more to be done. I hope a more effective response from the state, especially when it comes to violence prevention programmes. The current programme and support for victims of violence are insufficient, and very few violent people have been prosecuted or sentenced to fines. It is good that in Serbia there are safe houses, SOS phones, although in many areas there are no material resources for this kind of support. I hope that the state institutions will focus more on solving these problems, especially in the poor, or less developed environments. The adoption of this Convention would be a very important step forward towards solving the problems I was talking about. Equally important is the economic empowerment of women, as only an economically strong woman is an independent woman. Finally, I call on all fellow Members of the People to support this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24577	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Jovana Mehandzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24578	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, honourable government representatives, in today's united debate, will refer mainly to the Istanbul Convention because I believe this topic deserves special attention in today's debate. I welcome the fact that Parliament is already dealing with this topic the second day and that we are dealing with the prevention and fight against domestic violence and violence against women. However, like my previous colleagues, I have to remind both the audience and the public of some of the colleagues who spoke about violence against women, and these are members of the largest ruling party in Serbia, in a way and language that belongs to the past, although we have received justification and received an official SNS stance, I must remind myself that on Thursday when we talked about it, a colleague had a replica and did not take that opportunity to change his mind or to apologize. I really ask, in what way will this government and the ruling SNS fight these cases in their ranks? So, to quote, women are often psychologically and verbally, manipulative, sociologically and economically dominant than men, and I also draw attention to the fact that women often provoke violence themselves. I repeat this, not because I have nothing else to say, but because I believe that we here in the Assembly, and the public should know what was said in this house on Thursday, that it is inadmissible, that it is not a warning, that there is no opportunity in the replica to apologize, or to change his mind, and that today we only get the official SNS position, declared, that it will not be tolerated. My question to colleagues in this congregation is – how will you, apart from verbal warning, warn your colleague or learn not to repeat this? To me, it is only an illustration of the ruling party's verbal and declarative commitment to values that prevent domestic violence and violence against women. Let me remind you, it's the 15th month of the work of this government. I ask the question – what is specifically done to prevent domestic violence? Over 20,000 reports of domestic violence exist every year, and I remind you that only 79 times the court has said a measure of distancing the bully from the family. It's a measure that exists in the law that de facto does not apply. If this number had increased, it would have been a proof of commitment to fighting violence against women and fighting domestic violence. Why are you not passing laws that will prevent and sanction perpetrators in situations of domestic violence and violence against women in a practical and real life, but amnesty over 3,000 convicts? Many of them just for acts of violence. You'll agree that actions speak more than words. Please answer my question regarding the escalation of everyday violence and family, peer violence, game violence, sports events? Please answer the question to what extent does this have to do with the convicts who have been amnested, to what extent does the escalation of daily violence in our society have to do with the returnees and the renegade perpetrators of the crimes they have already been convicted of, and then released before the expiry of the sentence they were supposed to endure, and often it happens that the acts that they again commit after release of liberty are more severe than those for whom they are convicted? I expect that representatives of the ruling coalition will answer the question – to what extent can the escalation of violence in our society be linked to the laws that this Assembly adopts? I will remind you, I am referring to the Law on Amnesty which, or will be released, is more than 3,000 convicts, as we heard from Minister Selakovic when this law was explained. This Convention, I will recall, is based on the 3P system of prevention, protection of victims of violence and the processing of perpetrators. Today we are in a situation where safe houses are no longer safe. I'll remind you of an unkind and shocking event, some would even say, a tragic one that happened on June 13th of this year, and when three people, including an 11-year-old child, the son of one of the protégés, were injured in a safe house in Belgrade when an ex-husband of one of the protégés broke into the house and attacked the protégé of this house with a knife. The child was killed defending his mother. This attack, as I've read in public information, is treated as an attempted murder. I'm interested in how far this procedure has taken place. Is the investigation closed, is it just criminal charges filed, or may the charges have been filed, or maybe nothing's been done? I expect to get an answer to the questions I asked, and for the sake of illustration of my opinion and my colleagues, I will present a few statistics. In fact, this year in partner relations, 37 women have died, compared to last year, it is a marked growth. Last year, throughout the year, 32 women died. Compared to previous years, I will repeat, there has been an increase in violence, as 26 women died in 2010, 29 women in 2011 and 32 women in 2012. So far, I repeat, and we are at the end of October 2013, 37 women in partnership died. Escalation of violence in our society is noticeable. I welcome the proposal of the Istanbul Convention in this House. I know we all agreed that we should vote for this, that we should support this, but what's evident is that this convention is just a framework and just a base. What matters is what we do as a society and as individuals in the future. What matters is what happens in practice, how many laws are implemented. It's important how many thugs are moving away from the family, and let me remind you, on the one hand, we have 20,000 reports of domestic violence, and only 79 measures are made to distance the bully from the family. It's important how much practice so far will change. You've had 15 months to change your practice so far. In this month, the 15th month, I don't see what's changed about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24579	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24580	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, another day of debate on the Istanbul Convention and a new space to replace the thesis when we talk about this extremely important topic. We agreed to vote as one and fight for the implementation of the objectives set out in the Istanbul Convention. The opposition's ranks again insist on changing the context, extracting certain facts, parts of speech from the context, on persistent attacks on SNS to score petty daily-political points. I remind you that you are reducing the effect, the importance, the essence of explaining the importance of adopting the Istanbul Convention. What the citizens could hear a few minutes ago when the president of the Parliament, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, spoke about the importance of both commitment and the SNS, as well as parliament in the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, speaks enough of what the government's message is about violence in Serbia, violence against women and domestic violence. I think your efforts to move the focus that in the next period, as far as we need it, that after signing this convention we really ratify it, that is when we need to form certain bodies that will monitor the implementation of this Convention, to make certain legal changes to make these victims of violence feel the effects. In all that hill of work ahead of us, and we need to work together, and Parliament, and the government and the civil sector, in this whole story, you just find room to criticise and extract from the context part of the presentation of one of the colleagues in parliament. I think at this point you should... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Let me just repeat one more part of the exposure that you keep trying to get out of the context – we agree unconditionally with the objectives of the conventions relating to the protection of women and families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24581	The word has the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24582	To be precise, the figures are inexorable, the statistics are inexorable. My colleague's been replicating my exposure. What is evident is that in the middle there is one replacement thesis that we are not facing for the first time in this assembly of parliament. I was talking about verbal pawnage for certain values, about the lack of work that supports those words, and what is evident and visible is that, among you in your ranks, there are dissonant tones in terms of the definition of violence and what is happening in the family, dissonant tones of what is acceptable, or unacceptable behaviour of women. It's good to talk about this subject. It's a good thing some things can come out. It is good to finally see that some of the MPs sitting in this House are constantly returning to the past, i.e. they have not even come out of the past. These topics, basic human rights issues and the protection of every citizen, are a great opportunity to actually see what kind of suit each of us is wearing and what kind of soul and heart is, is some kind of pawning just a declarative profit, as the colleague said, a daily-political petty point, or is that a pledge essential to what we believe is true and from the bottom of our soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24583	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24584	I will ask all my colleagues in parliament to return to the debate on the Istanbul Convention. I want us to spend this time we're supposed to spend on explaining to the citizens how important it is to adopt and work on ratification of this Istanbul Convention. Once again, I ask that we stick exclusively to the topic and effects of this convention and what it is that we can do. I'm not surprised, Democrats, the only thing they do is talk. The question is how well they can do it. It's up to us to work. The most important thing is to see the effects of this Istanbul Convention very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24585	We interrupt the replicas. We're moving on to work on the list. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24586	Thank you. I would like to point out from the very beginning that the issue of violence against women and domestic violence is one of the most important issues that we should ask as often as possible, as long as this evil that exists everywhere in the world, and not only in Serbia, is not completely rooted out. Serbia has many important and difficult issues to deal with, from Kosovo and Metohija issues, Eurointegration, economic measures, but certainly for a woman who suffers domestic violence there is no more important issue than this. We are particularly aware of this, because if we look at the list of registered speakers, we can see that the largest number of women who speak on this subject is. We are certainly aware that women who, unfortunately, are still largely at risk in this matter have chosen to represent their interests and we will approach this issue as one of the priorities that we will deal with more and more often in the future, until we completely eradicate this evil. There are political reasons why we should support the ratification of so-called. Istanbul Conventions. Violence against women is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations, those of human fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. There is no democracy without respect for women's rights. The majority of acts of violence are men from the immediate environment, partners or former partners, which means that breaking up an outmarried or married community for a woman does not mean that domestic violence will end. The numbers that speak of how many women lose their lives as victims of domestic violence are terrifying. I would also say that the figures that talk about the number of cases processed are frightening in this regard. Only 10% of cases are reported, and only 10% of which comes to court. It is an unsatisfactory number of cases reported, and certainly it is an unsatisfactory overly mild criminal policy in this matter, so it is something we have to change if we want to feel the full effects of the Istanbul Convention. The Istanbul Convention rightly shows how much domestic violence, even when it happens in the house, is not an individual, it is a matter of general public interest. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, adopted in Istanbul on 11 May 2011, provides a number of legal and other solutions aimed at improving standards in the treatment of women victims of violence and improving preventive measures by Member States of the Convention. Accordingly, Serbia expects to agree on certain provisions of the Convention with domestic legislation in the ratification process, such as protection and support for children witnesses, persecution, including persecution by modern means, the Internet, and legal assistance to victims of violence. This matter refers to both the criminal legislation of the Republic of Serbia and the Family Law and other laws, but certainly what I find very important is that the Istanbul Convention also provides for monitoring mechanisms, as well as international co-operation on this issue. This convention came from the Committee for Equality and Non-discrimination of the Council of Europe, whose member I have been since January of this year. In addition to several committees that exist in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there are two networks, one to protect women from violence and the other to protect children from violence. It shows how many of these two categories are still at risk all over the world when there must be special organs to deal with their rights. We, as the Women's Parliamentary Network, were visiting Finland this year. I was very surprised to see that in such a developed Scandinavian country, which is famous for setting standards for other countries with regard to the overall rights enjoyed by women and the protection of their rights, so I was surprised to see that as many as 27 women lost their lives in Finland last year, although it is a country that has fewer inhabitants than Serbia, 5.4 million. It shows that there is certainly a long way in front of women everywhere in the world to come to true equality. It's not enough to just pass laws. I think the most important thing is to work on changing people's minds, and that's something that's a long-term process. We have to teach our children in schools how unacceptable violence is. It's unacceptable violence on the street, it's unacceptable to violence in a bar, in stadiums, but I'd say it's even more unacceptable from a moral and human point of view, violence in the family over the weaker of itself. Finally, I want to express my satisfaction that in the next time I go to Strasbourg to the Committee on Equality of the Council of Europe, I will be able to praise that Serbia is among the first 10 countries of the 47 that ratified it and that have allowed it to take effect. Certainly, I would also like to point out that the SNS MPs were extremely involved in the Istanbul Convention coming to the agenda of this session so that we could ratify it as soon as possible and that we could move on in that direction to work. I would also like to thank Mrs Stani Bozovic, who has been a great help to us in this business. I'm sorry she's not here with us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24587	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24588	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I take it as my right to believe that issues of gender and gender equality, as well as interchanges are directed against any form of discrimination and violence as its extreme variants, have already been incorporated into a corpus of fundamental social values around which there is a general consensus in political elites, and also the highest in society, and not only declaratively, but essentially. As these fundamental values are now being realized in practice, it is again a question to itself. Here, at the very beginning, in my address to you, I pointed out correctness, so that I would not be wrong about linguistic standards regarding what we call gender, although it is full equality. And in this Convention, this distinction is potential, but I didn't want it to be a forcible discussion for me, although I admit that I can't resist this opportunity to stress that I'm not quite sure about the effectiveness of these linguistic hornets, the type of psychological, sociological and similar, as well as the extent to which this is essentially anti-discrimination culture versus the façade anti-discrimination culture. I believe that ladies who deal with these professions have different problems with discrimination than natural or grammatical gender issues, but, well, standards are standards, and even when they're not quite meaningful. Of course, I have no dilemma that we will adopt both of these conventions, but by adopting and applying the conventions themselves and on their based laws, the situation cannot change significantly, so I believe that we will agree that it is necessary to scratch much deeper and much more fundamentally. It is also crucial to ask all the questions - what causes discrimination and violence against women and children, but also men in the family or other social institutions? I'm sure the reference scientific institutions have a number of projects in which they have answered this question, but I'm afraid that the solution is still out there far or at least a little further and is located in an economic and social zone. The difficult economic situation, which has been going on for too long, strongly generates the feeling of impotence among every individual who is unable to achieve his role within his own primary social group, family, which is to provide material and overall existence for himself and his family. It is likely that this frustration is shown more dominantly in men, according to our still strong form that "pater familias" is the one that bears the most part in providing a material basis for family functioning. Is that impotence, then, at the nearest, spouses and children, to show in a completely wrong way who's in charge of the house and whose is it? I'm not an expert, but I'm inclined to believe that, except of course, when it comes to an individual with a psychopathic personality structure, which falls within the domain of an individual, not a general society, and we're not going to be dealing here. Every day, we witness the terrible news of peer violence more and more frequently in schools themselves. Let's stop blaming movies and games that promote aggression, even though that doesn't have to be ignored. How is it that our street law becomes an increasingly dominant form of social behavior, even in institutions that should be opposed to every social “undergrand” such as family and school? Unable to provide their children with frequent and minimal, let alone decent existence, parents have lost respect for their children. They stop being a role model to their children, and traditional models of education with all those values, such as industriousness, honesty, justice, slowly go to ancient museums, because they are unusable in society that rests on the social injustice of individuals, who cannot finally answer the famous question – how did they earn their first million? He has particularly suppressed the education system, which has completely dropped into its educational component. The poor material position of the educators can't be an excuse for that, because the education was never done because of the money. Because of all this dramatic speed, our society disintegrates in the direction of injustice, and why are we surprised by violence and discrimination? The expression of aggression in more massive proportions has always, as a trigger, had a certain form and degree of individual social impotence. A special story is women. That's where I would agree with my DS colleague on the so-called structural discrimination against women. In addition to being the most frequent victims of violence through various forms of abuse and when they are not, they are discriminated against by the absence of an orderly network of the most diverse forms of service support that would allow them to dissipate and engage equally with men in a professional career without neglecting their traditional role as mother and wife, which our women are fortunately not ready to give up. A working woman, if she is not lucky enough to have a "grandmother service" to help her home and around children, she literally has at least 18 hours' working hours. It's really amazing in a situation where so many women are unemployed that we haven't had a more massive network of all kinds of services of the type of help in the house, babysitting or school service. These services have remained the privilege of a rich handful of thin layers of society which employ women mostly on black and which are completely invisible to the system. Let's not talk about our almost extinct professions like babysitters, nannies or governess if you want, where it's necessary for those system offices, and their professions to become visible. Instead of working on black, without any standards, which then endangers both interested parties and users and service providers. Children of the third millennium cannot and must not live by the standard of their grandparents. Well, it's no wonder that fewer babies are born at least at national level. In vain of the Anachron of the Grief about our famous grandmothers who gave birth to ten children, so what is wrong with us? Civilization, it's a very retrograde story, and for society and the system, it's completely unsustainable. Without the prospect of further detailing things that are quite well known to you, I want to make another appeal in this high home to stop delaying the problem, violence and discrimination, because our role is not only to bring systemic solutions, but to participate very actively in social change to create conditions for a decent society that I believe we all want to live in. Of course, the SNS will vote for one convention and for another. Of course the SNS is fighting against discrimination against women with its own being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24589	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24590	The President-in-Office, honourable Mr. Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, confirms the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence is of paramount importance for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that the approval of the Convention is foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Serbia's 2013 Plan and the National Programme for the adoption of EU rules for the period from 2013 to 2016. Confirmation of the Convention provides for the implementation of the principle of equality and non-discrimination, as well as serious work to prevent and combat violence against women, domestic violence, as well as measures to protect vulnerable persons in the form of legal, advisory assistance, the formation of safe houses, the two-six-hourly availability of SOS phones, the provision of specialised support services, especially with emphasis on children as victims of violence and children as witnesses of violence. The Convention obliges the State to implement legislative and other measures to protect victims of violence. These include particularly criminal acts that try to be shown as justifiable, claiming that the victim has violated cultural, religious, traditional norms or customs of proper conduct. The application of the Convention obliges all signatories to respect it, both in peacetime and in war. The facts say that rare areas in life where women are not discriminated against and, as much as they talk about women's progress in Serbia and despite the UN Commission's assessment of women's discrimination elimination, they continue to live with prejudices that men earn more and can get better. Women are still the ones who are harder to get jobs, who are paid worse, who are making slower progress, and who are rarely in driving positions. They often have to choose between careers and births. Exceptional concerns exist for the position of special women such as Roma women, women with disabilities and women in rural areas. I must point out that in Pancheva, the city I live in, most of my fellow citizens don't even know the alarming data of domestic violence in Pancheva municipality territory. During 2010, 215 cases of domestic violence were recorded in Panchev, with 95% of the violence being committed against women by partners or husbands. That year, Pancevo took an infamous third place in Serbia. Unfortunately, statistics show no improvement, so today, according to unofficial data, Panchevo, regardless of the present awareness of the existence of the problem, building safe houses, remains a city with a high percentage of violence against women. This picture of a society whose roots are caused by a series of mentioned issues requires changes, and above all, the removal of prejudice in the collective consciousness of the society in which we live. According to some data, a woman suffers from violence every 10 days in Serbia. Every third woman in Serbia is a victim of physical violence in the family. Every other woman in Serbia is a victim of psychological violence, and at least once in her life every fourth was exposed to physical violence in the family. In Serbia, at least once, every child was exposed to some form of violence and 10% are permanently exposed to severe forms of physical or sexual abuse. We must not forget in 2006, four children in our country died from domestic violence. In 15% of the cases studied, domestic violence has been repeated more than five times. The task of the state of Serbia and its society is to fight every second to make this static disappear, as it will only preserve the healthy family frameworks as well as a better, healthier, more advanced future for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of a proposal to confirm the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence gives a clear message to all women that they must leave the victim's role, to see how solutions exist for the situation of violence, as well as the need to free fear. What's most important is that they realize they're not alone in that fight. Based on all of the above and the interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support a proposal to confirm the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against domestic violence against women and violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24591	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24592	We have two very important conventions ahead of us, the Honored President, the Honorable Ministers, cabinet members, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia. One Convention refers to the protection of children in the process of international adoption, another Convention refers to the protection of the wife of victims of domestic violence and the victim's wife in partner violence. The Conventions are particularly important in terms of establishing a legal mechanism and a legislative framework for the protection of the most vulnerable social groups, and these are children without parental ageing and women and children of victims of domestic violence. The Convention on Child Protection International adoption recognises the predominant importance of child rearing in a family environment that is significant from the aspect of proper psychophysical development of children. Unfortunately, however, all children do not have the opportunity to use their legal right to live first and foremost with their biological parents, so the obligation of the State or the Ministry of Family Legal Protection to provide children without parental ageing, in accordance with the Constitution, is an adequate protection. This protection in the social protection system is provided through family legal protection, such as foster care, which is limited to action, and then through the housing of children in a social protection institution as an ultimate measure and through adoption as a form of permanent parenting. The Convention for the Protection of Children and adoption is very important from the aspect of co-operation between the State of Accession and the State of origin, co-operation in all procedures related to the establishment of the first contact of potential adopters of foreign nationals with a child who have established a general similarity for adoption, which is located in a unique personal register for adoption and has passed a period of time since the year when fosterers could not be found among domestic citizens. The international adoption is recognised in Article 103(2) and Article 3(3) of the Family Protection Act, the Ministry of Family Protection shall carry out an assessment of the legality and assessment of professional procedures in all adoption procedures that result in the conclusion of the expert teams of the custody body and shall carry out the control and coordination function throughout the process of international adoption from the establishment of the first contact of foreign nationals in the foster family or social protection establishment, until a decision on adoption by the competent authority of custody is reached. The professional, or team of experts of the Ministry of Family Legal Protection shall give an opinion to the Minister responsible for Family Legal Protection whether all the conditions for international adoption are met, if they are, shall be issued by the Ministry of Family Legal Protection and in accordance with Article 23(2). The Convention and, of course, the Minister shall, in accordance with Article 17 of the Convention, grant consent or permission to be adopted in a concrete manner. Of course, there is no doubt that one of the strategic objectives of the SNS is to protect the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups, among them the overwhelming children and in the voting day we will support this Convention. A team that also gives the obligation of the competent Ministry of Family Legal Protection to take all measures, directly or in collaboration with the competent authorities, to prevent financial gains or corruption in any part of international adoption. As for the protection of women, victims of domestic violence and victims of partner violence, it is important to note that violence against women is a specific type of abuse of the power of the perpetrator of violence. Violence can be done by men and women, but the birth dimension is an essential feature of domestic violence, that is, violence against women. During the 2010 map of domestic violence, the picture is extremely dreary. The victims of domestic violence in most cases are women, and the perpetrators of violence are men in the status of current or ex-marriage, non-marriage or intimate partners. It is important to note that the system must be fast, efficient, coordinated, that it should be multi-sectoral, that it currently halts violence against the woman, and the obligation of the MUP is to stop this violence at the moment. The obligation of health and social institutions is to provide psycho-social, legal support and assistance in order to rehabilitate and integrate the victim. Violence against women is a negation of all human values, especially the negation of the fundamental human right of women to life, to integrity, to dignity. The Serbian Progressive Party has no doubt that this Convention will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24593	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24594	Dear Mr Minister, members of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today I will say something about the draft law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption. The first thing I'm going to say about this bill is that it's quite late. He's late because in the 1970s, the number of international adoptions of children had a real boom, began to develop after World War II as a legal institution. We've left this area as a state in these and later times completely undefined, so we shouldn't be surprised if some of them, under quotes, are self-organizing. By law of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the area of international adoption, Serbia stands in line with a number of countries that have ratified and incorporated the Convention in their legal systems. The Convention as the course of modern legislation has managed to bring security into this matter at least a little, all in order to prevent child abuse, following numerous wanderings and unresolved relations in the area of international adoption of children. We are witnessing numerous news in the media that after the arms and narcotics trade, human trafficking is the most profitable job for certain criminal structures. Newspapers are full of articles on suspicions of an organized disappearance and allegedly dying of children in maternity homes. Which is true and whether the doubts are justified, let the competent authorities do so. The fact is, we didn't have legal regulations for such cases, and that a wide field of all combinations opened up, to use this overly mild term. It is this convention that tries to combat child abuse when adopted by non-domestic adoptors, but also that by the adoptive state and the adoptive state, i.e. States of reception, provide constant supervision of adopted children, overseeing their growing up and fitting into a new environment, but also with instruments to act in a timely manner if it is established that the adopted child is denied some rights, or is not behaving in an appropriate situation in relation to parent-child. In the era of unlimited communication, in situations where numerous data are available to almost everyone, it is necessary to install into our legal system the provisions of this Convention in order to protect the interests of the youngest and to ensure that those youngest ones do not become victims of manipulation, trade and trade. This Convention comprehensively regulates the conditions for international adoption of children and opens the possibility that children, who, according to the understanding of the local community, are "unacceptable for adoption", are most often children with special needs, children with disabilities, adult children, children who are not the same race or nation, find their chance for a better and happier life. Unfortunately, Serbia is a country that has suffered from the white plague. A nation that disappears, according to expert analyses, and a cure for the disease, although known to everyone, is not applied for all well-known reasons. It's important and valuable to us every child, so it's important for us to keep as many children in our country as possible, because we've been with the little ones for a long time, unfortunately. It's a lucky thing the adoption of our children by fosterers from abroad is a very rare phenomenon. Practically, such adoptions can be counted on an annual basis, but it is precisely the subject of this Convention that is welcome in our legal system, so that these few adoptions from abroad would also give full legal certainty and full supervision, thereby preventing any abuse and any unlawful compensation for certain circles of people. The aim is to provide legal basis for the protection of the interests of children without parental ageing, children who have been abandoned and who spend childhood in institutions that, despite human goals and all child care, can never provide the warmth and carelessness of the family. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the two draft laws in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24595	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24596	I will try not to speak too long today, given that colleagues who spoke before me have said a lot about the Council of Europe Convention in preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. Also, I'm not going to do too much statistical data, like, they received in 2011 from the report of 26 police administrations, which were forwarded to the Autonomous Women's Centre, in which, for example, It says that 18,918 cases reported to the police, domestic violence, were recorded in 2011. Out of the total number of cases in 5.460, a misapplication was filed, a criminal report was filed for 3,014. That's 42.7% of the total number. It's not even 50% round and I'm not doing statistics. On the other hand, it's something that happened in the past, something we can't influence right now, we can't stop. I want to talk about the present, the present problems, the future and what we as MPs can do to prevent it. (The People's Parliament shows pictures. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is not statistics. This is reality. We can consult with statistical data to see how many women a week, how many times a month, how many times a year does it look like this? I don't think any of us care about those numbers. It's terrible that there are cases like this today, and I think today as MPs, we shouldn't just be reading statistics. All of us today and all of Serbia's citizens should learn to recognize domestic violence, and those who recognize it stop silently, speak publicly about it and report domestic violence. There are currently 12 safe houses in Serbia. I don't think 12 safe houses are enough for all victims of domestic violence in Serbia. I also don't see a solution to making more safe houses without doing anything to prevent that violence. That's why I think we need to improve primarily preventive measures that will prevent this violence from happening in the future. I also think that confirming this convention shows that we are on our way to getting in the way of this problem. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Women's Autonomous Center for helping me get this material, which was used otherwise for various global campaigns in the fight against violence against women. I would also like to say that all these women are not really victims of domestic violence. They're just women who've been campaigning and this, dear colleagues, is just good makeup. Our obligation today is in parliament to talk about how much women use today's good makeup to cover real bruises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24597	Thank you. National MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24598	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, confirming the Convention on the fight against violence against women and domestic violence is one very important step in achieving one, hopefully, general goal in our country, which is to eliminate violence against women. This Convention includes a wide range of violence that women face from understretching, mental, physical, sexual violence to violence and crimes committed on behalf of so-called "the so-called "marriage". Your honor. In order to fight all types of violence, it is truly effective and effective to develop an action plan. When it comes to violence against women, the situation in our country is unfortunately very worrying. What is most dangerous is the fact that violence often comes from the person in whom a woman should have the most trust she should expect protection from, which is a partner or husband. Also, the second defeating fact is that the largest number of crimes, even 75% of crime, is happening in a place where a woman should feel the safest, and that's her own home. This Convention provides for a coordinated approach to the problem. Joint work, mutual exchange of information between all relevant institutions, judiciary, police, social services, as well as relevant health institutions. The criminal policy envisaged is such that it prevents such crimes from being committed. Otherwise, everything would lose its meaning because showing any mildness or permissiveness in punishing such crimes would in some way mean a tacit approval or even a boost from society, and as a society, we certainly do not want to send such a message. There are also emergency protection measures that exist in situations of immediate danger, and many crimes have been known to have been avoided if there was a timely or adequate reaction. There have been barriers to approach measures that have been functioning quite successfully in many countries for years. What I would especially commend in this convention is her endeavor to preserve the reputation and dignity of the victim. Among other things, this means that evidence relating to the sexual past or to the sexual behavior of the victim will be considered only if it is really necessary and relevant for the case. So it will be avoided until now that not so rare a practice that instead of the perpetrator, the victim begins to be tried and that in the end the maltene comes to the conclusion that the victim is somehow guilty or has caused herself what happened to her. We have one, we see there, much more humane approach to the victim, which has not been the case so far, and the fact that the victim is now allowed to testify without being present in the courtroom, or at least that there is no person present in the courtroom who is the alleged perpetrator. Finally, I would like to point out myself the importance of empowering women, the importance of prevention, and what is most important of all, raising awareness among our citizens and citizens about the fact that there is no explanation, no justification for any form of violence. I think it's a very demanding task to start with as soon as possible, to introduce it into education, to formal teaching reading and at all levels of education, so that children and young people can develop empathy in time, to develop a healthy pattern of behavior and, of course, awareness of gender equality. This would mean that, for a change, as a society, we are starting to deal not only with the consequences, but to start dealing with the cause, which is the property of every human and responsible society. I think this convention represents a very important step towards achieving that goal and will receive support from the Serbian Progressive Party in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24599	Thank you. National MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24600	Thank you. Dear fellow ministers, I would just like to brief our review of Article 78 concerning reserves and to say that the reserves are in no way relevant to the Convention itself, but that they are there in order to enable us to better prepare our legislation and in the next period, as far as we can use them for five years, so much to improve our laws in terms of preventive action, in order to solve the problem of violence against women and even domestic violence at all. Here's the thing. When we talk about Article 30, paragraph 2, which says that we need to provide, as one responsible state, and the means to compensate victims in the event of committed violence, which refers to mental, mental, physical pain, and in the event that the perpetrator for some reason or insurance companies or health insurance cannot cover it. We must provide for the means and the means to be real, so that we can equally provide all victims of violence that suffer such a request. So, not to perform selectively and scytheically, but to really be one program that will be feasible. A much bigger problem is the practice of Article 55 when it says – that the procedure must continue even if the victim withdraws the complaint. It's not happening today. Very often we have situations in the centres of social work or in the state judicial authorities, that a woman under the influence or members of the family or out of fear withdraws the lawsuit, and then suffers even greater violence. So, the state has to legal regulation to ensure that this process continues, to continue, to end and that the victim is provided, and the bully is properly and justly processed. Another delicate, but very delicate situation is the one that speaks in Article 58, which refers specifically to Article 39. It's very difficult for a woman who decides to stop her pregnancy to determine whether she did it under duress or whether it's her will. So we need to enable women to make known whether they want to keep their pregnancy or not, not to do so under pressure or by family members or partners or someone else. So these are the things that we need to take care of and which are mostly covered by these reserves that we have put in place, which we have absolutely no reservation for the convention, but we just want to work on our legislation in this five-year period, that this convention shines in full glory, that our women be safe, and that it is absolutely applicable everywhere and in every place. According to this, the Serbian Progressive Party will work, and the first step is absolute support when the law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24601	Thank you. National MP Dragan Nikolic. He's not here. ) National MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24602	Dear President-in-Office, honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, allow at the beginning several findings on this law. First – it is not good that the family is not, although it should be the most stable place for a woman. The family, which needs to provide their members with the greatest mutual love, care, and respect, becomes a trap for a woman in whom she experiences various types of violence. The second finding – it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a National Strategy to prevent domestic violence and partner relations. Third – domestic violence is the result of unrequitedness, unculture, uncertainty and lack of love and culture, of us male persons, of women. Fourthly, the SNS advocates stable and harmonious family relations, aware that a stable family atmosphere is one of the basic levers in Serbia's modernisation process, which our party's president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, and the president of the state, Tomislav Nikolic, are hearty in favour of. Ladies and gentlemen, domestic violence, unfortunately, is present in all countries of the world and all cultures. If we look at the perpetrators of this settlement, we will see that these are people of all races, all ethnic communities, religious, political and sexual definitions, social and cultural levels and genders. If we look at our environment, then we come up with information that every fourth woman in the Balkans suffers domestic violence. In Egypt, every third woman is necessarily beaten up by her husband. In Africa, every sixth day at least one woman gets killed by a husband or boyfriend. In Russia, 80% of all crimes happen in the family. In Lithuania, 35% of all murders were killed by their husbands. A woman gets beaten up every 15 seconds in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the situation in our state of Serbia, the situation, unfortunately, is no better. Only from January to June 2013, 29 people were killed for the first six months of this year in domestic violence, of which 20 women, thousands were harassed in the family circle. During the year 2012, domestic violence, compared to 2011, was increased, believed or not, by 50%. These are shocking data that every man, every educational institution, militia stations, local communities, social work centres and the state of Serbia as a whole must be concerned. In 2012, the prosecution filed 331,336 applications for domestic violence, and on various grounds only 11,000 violent people were sentenced, a dozen percent lower than in 2011, although domestic violence was significantly higher. Otherwise, the number of domestic violence is much higher because there is a lot of violence in the family that does not register. In other developed countries, domestic violence is reported poorly. For example, in the United States and England only one half of the cases of domestic violence are reported. I'm not going to talk about types of violence, and let me say that it's very obvious that physical violence, hitting, slapping, pushing, strangling, stabbing, shooting, throwing various objects, locking, breaking of the nose, arms, legs, head injury and other, sexual violence, economic violence, financial control, every dinar by a husband, etc., psychological violence with various sayings, is said to be fat women, ugly, that no one will, that they are stupid, bad mothers, deprive of love, etc. It's a disgrace to us men and we have to admit it. If this is analysed by who committed domestic violence in Serbia, then we come up with data that in 91.5% of cases, the perpetrator is male. This is the exact data. This information should concern all of us men. This is our greatest defeat as a person, a reflection of our impotence and ignorance, human misery and lack of love and respect. Not only that, but, ladies and gentlemen, worse. The goal of every domestic violence is to demonstrate power in establishing control over women. It has to stop by our men. And child violence towards parents is quite high, 14.3% of children commit domestic violence against their parents. Gentlemen and colleagues of the male sex, our violence against women in the family destroys family peace, destroys security and democracy, and the obstacle is, I would say, to Serbia's overall development, the modernisation of Serbia, for which the SNS favours the air. Ladies and gentlemen, I point to a new kind of domestic violence in the 21st century, which is violence against older people, considered a slave baby syndrome in psychology. It is about older women who willingly bear a great burden within their family, who for years are too heavy for them. If a woman herself doesn't prove to be exhausted, and her children don't notice it, physical and psychological violence arises. This phenomenon is a newer date and an international organisation characterizes it as violence against women. Allow me at the end to propose a measure. First, prevention. Where, how and what? First, educational institutions through curricula and programs. It is necessary to return to the curricula and programmes of each teaching subject which discusses education for human relations between genders, male to woman, family life harmony and other topics of the family pedagogy domain. Second, working with my parents. At each parent meeting, the first item of the agenda should be the subject of this issue, and the realisers from doctors, educators and others, through the free and extracurricular activities of students, through the media, special public service, and it speaks only of violence, not of education, through the Centre for Social Work, local stations, health institutions, municipalities, secretaries for education. In the end, the coordinator of all activities should be the Ministry of Education. If it fulfills its task, domestic violence will become less and less. The Serbian Progressive Party, as a state-of-the-art, democratic, as a party that has launched Serbia's modernisation, along with its President, Aleksandr Vukic, attaches exceptional importance to family relations, aware that Serbia has no progress without stable family relations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in the day of the vote, regardless of the parties and the half, we will all be unique. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24603	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. You have a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24604	Madam Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, since my parliamentary group has only one minute left from the time allowed, given that all my colleagues have been very comprehensive and in detail said that in the voting day we will support the confirmation of the Convention on Violence against Women, I just want to say two things. The Serbian Progressive Party condemns every violence, and condemns especially violence against women and children. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to send a message to the citizens of Serbia and the entire world public, adopting this law on confirming the convention, that we want decent, normal, non-violent and advanced Serbia. We want Serbia that will be part of the EU and on that road, of course, nothing can stop us. Yesterday, we held a magnificent rally in Arena, Belgrade, and we showed that 50,000 people want to change Serbia and the SNS will go to the EU in the voting day, giving a vote for change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24605	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Tamara Tripic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24606	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today finishing the debate on the principle of ratification of the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family. Somewhere the debate of participants on this subject has shown willingness and agreement, lessover, that all MPs have adopted and ratified this Convention, but of course it is not enough. We agreed that the state must react to the violence committed, but as with other human rights, now with that declarative attitude somehow it should be carried out in action. If we ask the citizens of Serbia if they are to fight violence, I believe you would get a uniform answer if they were, it's kind of a general place and everyone will agree. But when you go into the fight against violence, then you come to the question of the consciousness and responsibility or the irresponsibility of the state to this problem. I don't expect citizens to fight violence. It's not their job, it's the government's business and it's the state's business. In that sense, the government must not, and I repeat, the government must not take its declarative position that it is being denied almost daily against violence and violence. You, Minister, are the government, you are an executive and now there is no question of whether or not you are to deal with violent men now, but it must be decided to move on. Unfortunately, statistics show that escalating violence in the past year is more than evident. It also shows a state's indecisiveness, unlike how strong and ghastly determination is when it should only be declared. You know, I find this personal to me when we recognize a certain right and we all agree that the right should be recognised, but we don't know how to make it right then finds its way into everyday life. We also have a situation here that we need to find a way to ensure that the state in this case ensures that the fight against violence somehow comes to life as a systemic decision of the state. Gentlemen, while we were talking in Parliament about fighting violence, we haven't stopped him yet. It lasts and lives independently of these messages and independent of our declarative willingness to condemn it. Just for the last two days, the media reported that a city transport conductor was beaten, a man tried to rape his child, and this morning I read that in Nis, a man shot a woman because he was too slow to drive. So, violence and violent men haven't yielded yet, but that's why we have a number of cases where the state has caved in. Violence is a phenomenon that must be seen in a broader context. A bully in the house will walk out on the street and commit violence. Then he'll go to work, and he'll do violence there. Violence, unfortunately, gives birth to violence. That's why all the width of this problem has to be seen. If the state shows weakness to a kind of violence, it will immediately encourage violent people in all areas of social life. In recent months, the state has shown weakness and, unfortunately, kneeled under the pressure of a bully. Gentlemen, let me tell you right now, I'm not following football, but for me it was a terrible fact when I heard that some fans made football players take off their uniforms, when some bully in the middle of the game, or a fan, went into the field and asked the football player to take off the captain's tape. Last I heard, there were broken windows on some footballers' cars and shampoos. The state's reaction, as far as I know, wasn't exactly adequate. It is interesting that the media have come to this problem through discussions about the need for shampoo, the types of shampoo, consciously or unconsciously, accidentally or deliberately, ignoring the fact that we have witnessed a psychic, and rich and physical violence and as a society, we have lost our reaction. I'm sorry, I have to admit, that the campaign for political elections has returned to violent behavior. I deeply believed that the matrix of beatings, physical abuse and kidnapping of political opponents was our past. The 1990s were marked both by repression and torture. I thought we left that time behind. It is sad that these behavioral matrixes are returning to Serbia's political scene, but also dangerous when it comes to the context of the whole development, that is, Serbia's lack of development in that period. It is a concept that must not become an ally of the state, it must not become an ally of state authorities, but neither of you as a government. This is where I have to look back on my colleague's exposure from the SNS. I don't understand what it means - we do, and you use it for daily policy points. To work, you know, then you had to react when a week ago an Ines was physically attacked just because she was wearing DS flyers. It's violence against women. That's what happens when this convention is on the agenda in parliament. That's where the pieces show up. Also, I have to say that she is a colleague of Jelena Mijatovic, who has shown earthquake images of victims of domestic violence. I have to tell you, you don't have to show these pictures to us, the DS will always be your ally for a fundamental fight against violence, but you first have to show your colleague, Ninoslav Giric, and ask him if these women have somehow caused the bully to commit that kind of violence. I'll be back on the subject now. Children at school also suffer violence. A serious analysis would certainly show that child abusers were or were still victims of domestic violence. Violence is as you can see, gentlemen, a model of behavior. It's a kind of struggle for the survival of people who have a moving approach to reality. Therefore, the vote for ratification of the Convention should not be just a voice against violence. The voice is enough for us, it won't upset us from the further development of violence in society because we told God we didn't agree. Gentlemen, it is unfortunately not enough and the events in Serbia remind us daily. Violence is a problem, and we as a state have a problem and only a serious and action and a reaction that will result in fundamentally non-violence and can lead to a long-term improvement in society as a whole. Nom Chomski said – there is no need for an argument against violence but it is necessary for violence. In this sense, the state must openly, without calculations, unbound by the day-to-day political dynamics to say no, violence is not tolerated, the bully is not tolerated, he will suffer sanctions and indeed suffers those sanctions in the end. Is it easy? Does it make it difficult for us to be a post-conflict society? Of course not, and we have all that in mind when we're talking about this subject, but for the matter of violence, especially the violence that happens in the home, there's no excuse, there's no excuse. Without exception, and regardless of the circumstances and participants in the violence of the states, each time must clearly show that it is stronger than any bully. I repeat, the DS parliamentary group undoubtedly supports the adoption of both these and The Hague conventions and these two interstate agreements. We appeal to the executive power to withdraw the reserves made as soon as possible with regard to the Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, but I remind you that this will not stop the violence until the state and the executive power, or the government, have made a fundamental decision to deal with these emerging problems. Otherwise, we'll continue to read morbid thinking about how you can harm all of your household. Let me get this straight. Violence knocks on all doors. Our kids are also going to school. Our children live with children who are victims of violence. They adopt patterns of behavior that are accepted by the environment. We must not forget, we are that environment and the government is that environment and the media are creating trends in that environment. Accordingly, everyone must assume their share of responsibility and, on the one hand, ensure a carefree childhood for our children, enable citizens to have an environment of security, trust in the authorities of the state, and the state must become the pillar and most serious guarantee of the civilization's basic human values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24607	Mrs. Obradovic, did you want a replica? Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24608	It seems listening to DS counterparts say domestic violence against women in Serbia began on 31 May last year. We've had a deadline these few months to solve this problem. We haven't solved it, and I think the SNS should go to the guillotine for it. That's how Serbian citizens were supposed to understand today by listening to DS colleagues. I am appalled by the exposure of my colleague Tripic because today's story, I have repeated several times and during the previous days, needs to find and unite us, to find ways to implement the Istanbul Convention as soon as possible. Seems like DS colleagues, not among their priorities. It's among the priorities to lower the SNS, all the successes we've made in the previous period. This, respected viewers and dear colleagues, is the beginning of another reinforced campaign against the SNS where every arrest, every apparition of criminals, corruptionists, people who have committed serious crimes will be called political persecution. You're not gonna get away with that. Simply, the people who are suspects will have to respond after the trials have been completed for what they did in the previous years. Violence in the family is a very serious problem and violence against women takes a long time, and it will take us a long time to reduce the numbers relating to the violence we are talking about today. We cannot attribute it exclusively to the period since the SNS is in power in Serbia, that is, this ruling coalition. I think that it is absolutely clear to the citizens of Serbia and your attempt to reduce all the successes of this government will really not go away. Replacement of thesis does not pass in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24609	Tamara Tripic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24610	I agree, the violence didn't start from May 31st last year, but it certainly did escalate. If you have until 2012 32 women killed in domestic violence in 12 months, and only for the first nine months of 2013, 37 will be killed, then I really have the right to say that we have an escalation of violence. I'm just wondering gentlemen from the ruling party, 15 months ago you took over, which is the moment when you'll be ready to take responsibility for what you're doing. You know, it's the easiest thing to do for everyone to condemn DS and everyone under the blue-yellow flag but it's still not going to bring these 37 women back to life, it's not going to make their children stop being orphans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24611	Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica on behalf of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24612	The fact is that violence did not begin with the arrival of SNS to power in Serbia, men beat their wives during Karadzic, during Obrenovic, during Tito and during Milosevic, beat them even during the previous government, beat them even during the SNS. However, each government has its own responsibility to prevent this violence. The previous government has passed system laws that prevent violence. The perpetrators of this violence have been punished. They were tried and put in jail. Ever since the SNS came to power, those criminals have been released from prison. It's been amnesty for 3,000 people, including thugs who beat or killed their wives. Since the arrival of SNS into power, the atmosphere has been created that you can beat the weaker, so that you can insult the weaker. That's what ministers show when they come here to the Assembly, and they yell at the MPs. This is what the ministers, or the first Vrbas Deputy Prime Minister, say to viewers, as the colleague now says, and insults a journalist in front of 30 semi-drunk supporters who applaud his every word. It encourages violence. It creates hope for every bully that his violence will remain unpunished. There is a problem between the SNS and these authorities to create an atmosphere that makes it difficult for us to return to one normal state in which every violence against women, children and others weaker than ourselves will be punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24613	First right to replica, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24614	One more time. I'm not going down to the level of communication that happened by my DS colleagues. Violence is a problem that is happening, and the perpetrators of violence are in all parties in Serbia. Don't move the ball to our backyard. Do not mention examples to refer to SNS members. Let's not mention people from the DS who are absolutely clear that they're thugs. For which it is absolutely clear that the wives left the family homes and left. There's evidence for that. I don't think we should communicate like that. We should say that we are all to blame for this, that there are violent people in all parties, and that we should all strongly condemn this problem and the perpetrators. And to find solutions together... (President: Please, Mrs. Obradovic, these findings that there are bullies in the parties, please do not use here. ) The perpetrators of violence are members, I'm not talking about MPs, I'm talking about party members, so the parties have hundreds of thousands of members. So it's also among highly educated people and less educated people, and among poor people, and among rich people. So let's not use these definitions. There's one more thing I want to point out. A fellow Giric you talk about all the time, and you draw from the context his lecture, his presentation. He's a very respected doctor and his family comes under attack with this, and his name's also stained. There's no reason to continue to draw from the context of his exposure. Please take the exposure and read it out loud here, but in the context, not that, once again, I repeat that you are doing those replacements of thesis. As far as the government's action is concerned, has she done anything yet? I think we should all work together on this and insist that the laws that already exist be implemented, that is to change those who need it. It is clear, and the speaker of the assembly today conveyed a message that we will strongly condemn every form of violence and perpetrators of violence in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24615	Let me get this straight. Mrs. Obradovic was granted the right to replicate Mrs. Tripic's exposure. Now Zoran Babic has the right to reply, to present Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I didn't want to talk about this subject because I live in this topic. I live in a beautiful community with four ladies from three different generations of 9 to 79 and enjoy such a community, enjoy nursing my ladies and enjoying their love and attention, and I think that as a society we should cultivate and carry out such values. What I thought was that this topic, which should be sacred, should be a point of merger, not a point of vulgarization of politics, and making some small points, should have brought us together. She was supposed to grab our hands. We should have shown together that we are against violence, not only against women, but against violence in our society. We now demonstrate political violence in this way. What's true is that the Amnesty Act is voted in this house, but it's not the first. The first Amnesty Act was passed in February 2001. For this Law on Amnesty, which was much more liberal and wider, the DS voted. But it's forgotten. You're calling to forget about something like that. No, we'll remind you. It is not violence against parliament when ministers come and when they answer questions. Violence against parliament, Mr. Veselinovic, is when ministers do not come, when they do not respect the law, when they do not respect this high house, when they do not respect the MPs, as they did not respect them from 2008 to 2012. It's violence against parliament. The problem of our society, this Parliament's problem, is the vulgarization of politics. Say what you see... (President: Time, Mr. Granny. )......................................................................................................... Not what they want to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24617	Does anyone want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Judita Popovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24618	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Member of the 107th Dignity of Parliament. Of course we're against violence, and of course we expect that first of all... (President: Please, Mrs Popovic, stick to the provisions of Article 103. Rules of Procedure, and explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Any violence that applies directly affects Parliament's dignity. Obviously, this dignity has been greatly disrupted by the fact that there is a continuity between what has been said in the last minutes of the discussion of the Convention on the Protection of Women from Violence, in the Fourth, and what has been missed in today's debate. So, in today's debate, we have not heard an explicit apology from the largest parliamentary group, which would be fenced by MPs who in the most brutal way hurt half of Serbia's population... (President: Please, Mrs Popovic, once again I warn you to stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is what Madam Vice President is about to sanction violence. Is it verbal or physical? If we are already talking about a convention dealing with the protection of victims, isn't it a priority that everyone in this case refrains from verbal violence?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24619	Now I really have to stop you. I'll remind you that Article 103. The Rules of Procedure shall determine in which case the infringement of the Rules of Procedure shall be determined by the chair. So don't use this time to replicate or explain what anyone should have said. The law on replica has the first National MP Tamara Tripic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24620	As for the vulgarisation of Parliament, my colleague Babic and I fully agree with you. The vulgarization of parliament is you know, and when data is brought about the private life of one of the MPs. The vulgarisation of parliament is when we hear here that one MP is talking about women being more manipulative than men, and that somehow they are causing violence, and the parliamentary group of the largest parties in this parliament is not being fenced. The vulgarization of parliament, and when I tell you that a political activist during a campaign for local elections in Vrbas has been brutally attacked, you begin to tell me those general stories of organised crime. If you want to fight violence, then fight violence. Little Ines survived physical violence from SNS political activists. If you really want to fight violence, fence it and condemn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24621	Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24622	I'm really glad when someone boasts about living in a consistent family with four ladies, and that's really nice, and it's for every praise. I wish everyone in Serbia lived in coherent marriages, in coherent families, and not to suffer violence, and not to bring into their homes trauma. However, activists who were in Vrbas, and Ines and Danilo brought to their families the trauma caused by SNS, falsely arrested them, and took them to the premises without permission, and Danila beat them. What kind of harmony can they bring into their families, but only trauma? On the other hand, when it comes to the Law on Amnesty, which was passed in 2000, it is true, it has been passed, and usually such laws are passed for the post-war period, after the revolution, so that in some way the persons who have committed, perhaps crimes under the influence of these wars, will be abolized. In those wars you have brought us, Mr. Babic, or your previous party. It is true that this Law of Amnesty included a wide range of people who lived in traumatic times, some lost their family members, and it cannot be equated with the amnesty that you voted for, which was brought in at the time when crimes were committed in these areas, and it could be said from the obstetrics of those who did them. So they didn't participate in wars at the time. Don't let us go back to history, it's pretty painful for you, and I don't think we should be burdening this subject with such facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24623	Thank you. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24624	Here, this is, for example, the vulgarization of politics – I have brought the country into war, I am responsible for everything, and if you talk about the time when I graduated from college, when I formed a family, when I fought for existence in a difficult period in our society. But I can also accept this claim by Mr. Veselinovic. But I can't accept the fact that it's been 12 years since then and that you've been in power for 12 years, in different aggregate states, and you knew it all. Why didn't you process us, arrest us, hang us, do what you needed under the law? Why didn't you do it? You've had all the time in the world. You had all the power in this country. Why didn't you do it? Either you weren't capable, or there weren't any of our responsibilities for that. The third answer doesn't exist. About my private life, Mrs. Tripic, I was the only one in this House who talked about my private life and I will always talk about my private life, and I never really support it. I mean, I support talking politics here, talking about the essence, and this isn't the place for each other's insults. As far as something is concerned for the Vrbas municipality, I think the elections are over and the citizens who live in Vrbas who are the only ones who are competent to say what happened to the citizens who live in Romania, who were in Vrbas at that time, said in the elections, but it's devastating to me that someone who sits in this House forgets the basic postulate of rights, which is that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, and already accusing and condemning some people... (President: Time, Mr. Granny. If you have such knowledge and evidence of such a thing, I ask you to give them, not to this Parliament, but to the institutions of the system, the only ones who...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24625	Thank you, Mr. Granny. We'll cut the line after we're completely off topic. I ask if any of the other authorised representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Does the minister want a word? He has the word Minister Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24626	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow Members and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me just a few sentences. We discussed four extremely important documents that were in front of this tall home. The debate was extremely fruitful, and it showed indeed all the essence of the problems we discussed. She even pointed out to a large extent and to the path of overcoming the problem. She also pointed to certain causes. However, it has also shown that some things interfere with what is on the agenda and have corrupted the full impression and unity of this Parliament, which in fact in the case of these four extremely important documents has shown that it can work unitedly, that it can work in harmony, that it can work as a parliament of a cultural country and as representatives of a cultural people and peoples. I'm sorry about these little jumps, but that's, of course, the subject that you're going to grade. That's not my job. I'll only tell you two or three things about these important documents. Today, we completed our discussion and discussion of the social co-operation agreement with Canada and Luxembourg. These two agreements are extremely important for our people who work abroad temporarily and who will allow safer and more comfortable life, work and behaviour in these countries, because they have social security and in the case of Luxembourg and health insurance. When it comes to these two other conventions that are extremely important documents, in fact, they only encourage this Parliament and our country and the government to make even more successful, even more vigorously continue to fight violence against all socially endangered groups, than women, children, old, disabled persons and other categories of citizens who suffer a certain torture, a certain indirect relationship, etc. Therefore, and here we fulfill one obligation to ourselves that we will continue to fight the whole struggle together that this great evil called violence against women and children, the family, to bring it down to some, to say the measures that are tolerable, because to completely end it is certain that so quickly neither we can nor is it possible. The process of endangering the weak lasts as long as human society does. Someone's been listing dates here since the violence started. We could say from Emperor Dushan and here, not only from Karadjordje and not just from this or that government. Similarly, it cannot be denied that all governments have acted within the limits of their ability to make certain efforts to reduce this evil within borders and possibilities. However, the case, let's say, the village of Ivanca is one case for itself and no one could have predicted it in such a way as to say – here, we will solve the problem. Of course, each case for itself represents an extremely difficult situation that reminds us that as a society, we must work organisedly, primarily those in charge of this work, but also society as a whole. An individual here can't do much. But all organized institutions, society as a whole, and all individuals united in this struggle to eradicate this evil can indeed do much, much more and much faster to open the process of a more cultural, resourceful and humane life. As for the Convention on the adoption of children, I will tell you that certain measures are being taken to ensure that institutions in which children are placed, especially those children who are lagging behind in development and with special needs, are watched as soon as possible so that these institutions can be reduced to the least possible extent possible, and that the biological family becomes a real centre and place where the child will develop and where we will socialize and make him a useful member of society. Where it's not possible in a biological family, it's about adoption. The adoptions are indeed one of the institutes to be respected. We're making efforts to do this in our country with the highest percentage of our children, but where we can't find an adoptor in our country, then we do it in countries that are interested in it. We must especially point out here Sweden, which best responds to this problem, adopting a significant number of children distracted by development, with special needs and with the most responsible attitude towards these children. We're doing everything, one colleague on Friday, at last discussion, insisted on measures. which is very justified. I have to tell you that we are taking absolutely all the actions that are necessary to protect the child going into adoption, to control his position there and take measures, if in any way he questions his freedom, his integrity and his development there, to move him from that family, to place him elsewhere, or to bring him back to the ground. We are very, very strict about adopting children, and we are making every possible effort not to make mistakes in that direction, because it would be extremely inhumane for our children to go to families where they cannot provide the most essential conditions for an appropriate life. All of this together is our joint effort to move even faster, even stronger forwards in solving these problems. I thank you once again for the comprehensive debate, for the great argument put forward in favour of adoption, in favour of the fight against violence. Please, since there was no one in the list of debaters who was against it, you have all declared that the Assembly is uniquely confirming these four documents, as you have declared here. This would be the first time this home has brought consensus, with complete unity four very important legal acts, which have great importance for our country, and especially important for our children for our family and for the problems we have discussed with each other these two days. In addition to these little sparks, which by nature things are always in this kind of discussion out there, we can estimate, as far as I'm concerned, as the minister is concerned, that you've actually had an extremely serious debate. Thank you again very much. Cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24627	I'm concluding a joint single search. Now, in accordance with Article 87, I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 14.05 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on the session to be attended by a representative of Proposals Miroljub Tomic, Deputy Chairman of the High Council of the Judiciary for a joint single review of the decisions referred to in paragraphs 13 to 20 of the agenda. In agreement with the Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 13 to 20 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that pursuant to Article 192 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You have time in hand. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, agree with each other and set out no more than three participants in a debate in which they have the right to speak each of the five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament, according to Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Administrative Court, the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Appeal, the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Grand Court of Appeal in Belgrade, the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Nis, the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac and the Proposal for a decision to elect judges who are first elected to the court office. Does the representative of Proposer Miroljub Tomic, vice president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24629	Chairman of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me first to welcome you all on behalf of the High Council of the Judiciary. I am Miroljub Tomic, deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and today I am here in the Republic Parliament to tell you, but also to the citizens of Serbia, if they are following the transfer of this assembly session, I would like to present and explain the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary concerning the election of the president of the highest courts in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office. As we know, a session of the High Council of the Court of Justice of 28 May 2013 decided to announce an election for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Administrative Court, the Court of Appeal, the Court of Appeal, the High Court of Appeal, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, the Court of Appeal in Nis and the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. After that, and on the basis of Article 47 in relation to Article 80(1), The Law on Courts, the High Council of the Court of Justice announced on 31 May 2013, the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the abovementioned courts. In the process of proposing candidates for the election of the president of the abovementioned courts, the High Judicial Council on 25 June 2013 decided to educate the Commission to elect the president of the courts, who held talks with all the candidates reported. In addition to the application, I would like to point out that all candidates for the presidents of the courts have submitted a brief biography, a work programme in which they have presented their vision of problems in the functioning of the court for which they applied, then, a way of overcoming them and an idea to improve the work of that court. On the basis of the Commission's report on the selection of the President of the Courts, and taking into account the opinions of the session of all judges, the High Council of the Court of Justice found at its session held on 16 July 2013 that the proposed candidates, whose names were listed in the material provided to you, met all the criteria and criteria for selecting the President of the Court for which they applied, were based on Article 13(4). Law on the High Council of the judiciary, and regarding Article 70. The Law on Judges, the High Council laid down a proposal for a decision to elect a president for the abovementioned courts and proposed that they be elected by this parliament. Without the intention of taking away the time that is very valuable from you as republican MPs, I think it is necessary for you, but also for the citizens of Serbia, if they are following the transfer of this assembly session, to present a brief biography of all proposed candidates, since it is a relatively small number of people, especially before the election of the president of the highest courts in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the Supreme Cassation Court, the High Council of the judiciary proposed to the President of the Supreme Cassation Court Dragomir Milojevic, who was born in 1954 in Kragujevac, where the Faculty of Law ended in 1978, and was elected as the Judge of the Municipality Court in Kragujevac in 1982, after which he was appointed to work in the criminal department as an investigative judge. In 1984, he was appointed president of the Council in the municipal court's criminal department in Kragujevac. As judge of the Kragujevac District Court, he was elected in 1992 and was the president of the District Court's Police Department in Kragujevac by November 1999, when he was elected Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. It was also deployed to work in the Supreme Court of Serbia's criminal chamber, and in 2004, it was appointed president of the Council and served as vice president of the criminal department and deputy president of the Department of Justice. In 2008 and 2009, he served as vice president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and he also served as judge at the Council for War Crimes of the Supreme Court of Serbia. By the decision of the First Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Supreme Court, the High Council of the Court of Justice of 18 September 2012 reached a decision in the procedure of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision of 24 July 2012 to elect Dragomir Milojevic to judge the Supreme Court of Cassation. On 20 February 2013, Dragomir Milojevic held a general session of the Supreme Cassation Court as acting as judge of the court's office, since he also served as chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I note that fellow Milojevic actively participated in a number of seminars and round tables in the country and abroad, that he presented his professional papers, that he participated in the work of international councils, as well as conferences concerning the application of the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Convention on Transnational Crime, the fight against organised crime and war crimes. He participated in round tables in international courts in The Hague and Strasbourg and at the Max Plankt Institute in Frayburg. He was a member of several working groups to draft law in the area of criminal law and co-author of the Law on traffic safety on the roads. I would especially like to point out that it is one of the most professional judges in the Serbian judiciary, that it is a colleague who has tried the most difficult areas, and that it is characterized by his commitment to judicial work, exceptional urgency and expeditionivity in work, and that he is as such a role model to many judges in the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps the best part of this is the fact that the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court unanimously supported him for the role of president of this particular court. I also point out that from the moment of appointment as acting president of the Supreme Cassation Court, more than eight months have passed, that, in this period, as the head of the Serbian judiciary, he has taken on a number of activities aimed at raising levels of expertise, urgency, quality, but also responsibility in courts and restoring respect for the judiciary, which have encountered undivided support in the judiciary. I believe we agree that in every branch, even among us judges, we all know between ourselves who's good, who's bad, who's the best, and who's the most important and important if the profession itself supports you. That is why I also find it important that a man of this quality, both professional and moral, a man and a judge who is unconditionally supported by his colleagues, be led by a Serbian judiciary. When it comes to the Administrative Court, an ad for the election of the President of the Administrative Court was submitted: Sladjana Bojovic, Stevo Djurovic, Jelena Ivanovic and Jadranka Injac. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed Jelena Ivanovic to be President of the Administrative Court. A colleague Jelena Ivanovic was born in 1959 in the Kingdom. The Faculty of Law in Belgrade graduated in 1981, and was elected as the judge of the Municipal Court in the Kingdom in 1986 and acted in litigation. She was elected judge of the District Court in 1996, where she worked in the civil department, acted in first-degree and second-degree litigation and administrative disputes. In September 2004, it was elected judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, since it deals with administrative and judicial matter. She was elected Judge of the Administrative Court on 16 December 2009. counterpart Jelena Ivanovic has also actively participated in a number of seminars and trainings, and has authored more than 20 professional papers published in the Serbian Supreme Court's court practice bulletins, as well as other professional journals. For the president of the Chamber of Appeals, Miroslav Nikolic, who was born in 1959 in Dublin, was proposed. The University of Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 1984. After completing the university, he first worked in SIZ for the construction land of the municipality of Kovin and was the secretary of the company in Deliblat. From 1987 to 1991, he was a judicial intern and associate at the Municipal Court in Panchev. As judge of the court, he was elected in January 1991. He served until 1995, when he was elected Judge of the Court of Commerce in Panchev. Between 2001 and 2009, he served as President of the Trade Court in Panchev. In December 2009, he was elected Judge of the Court of Appeals, and the decision of the High Council of the Judiciary was appointed acting as acting president of the Court of Commerce as of 1 January 2010. The President is the Department of Judicial Practice in the Court of Auditors, and participates in the work in the council according to the annual schedule. He participates in the work and counselling organisations of judges in several cases. For the president of the Major Criminal Court, he was proposed by the High Council of the judiciary, Zoran Pasalic, born in 1958 in Belgrade. The University of Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 1991. From 1991 to 1997, he worked as a lawyer’s office, and he worked on the affairs of legal advisers in domestic and international enterprises. The city judge for Belgrade City's violations was appointed in 2003. The city's city judge for violations of Belgrade was appointed in December 2008. He served until 31 December 2009, and by decision of the High Council of the Court of Justice of December 2009, he was elected Judge of the Major Criminal Court to serve as acting President of the High Court from 1 January 2010. Since 2004, he has been a member of the Association of Judges for Violations and president of the Association until 2008. He's a member of the Justice Academy Management Board. Advertising the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Radmila Dragicevic Dičić, Maja Kovacevic Tomic, Dusko Milenkovic and Sonja Manojlovic submitted their applications. The High Judicial Council proposed to this parliament that Dusko Milenkovic, born in 1966, be elected to the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. The University of Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 1992 and passed a judicial exam in 1995. Since November 1995, he has been an expert associate at the District Court in Belgrade. The first municipal court judge in Belgrade was elected on August 1st 1997. The duty was carried out in 2003, when he was elected judge of the District Court in Belgrade. In December 2009, he was elected Judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, and has been handling criminal cases since January 2010. Since January 2011, he has also been operating in a special department for organised crime by the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. He is also the head of judicial practice in the Belgrade Court of Appeal's criminal chamber and is a member of the Belgrade Court of Appeal's Regulatory Board of the Billens of Judicial Practices. The decision by the acting head of the Supreme Cassation Court was appointed as acting as president of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade starting on 12 April 2013. He has actively participated in several seminars in the country in the area of criminal law. He has a certificate of special knowledge in the field of child rights and the criminality of young people. In 2003, he published a paper titled "The Entrepreneur as a New Subject of Criminal Law". In an ad for the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, they submitted applications: Milunka Cvetkovic and Dubravka Damjanovic. The High Council of the judiciary has proposed Dubravka Damjanovic as president of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal. counterpart Dubravka Damjanovic was born in 1957 in Belgrade. The University of Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 1981 and passed the judicial exam in 1984. As the municipal court judge in Raca, she was elected in November 1984, and from 1992 to 1999 she served as President of the Municipal Court in Raca. A December 1999 December was elected as judge of the Armed Court in Kragujevac. She worked in criminal matter all the time. On 16 December 2009, she was elected Judge of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac. She was also the president of the senior class for minor proceedings. The decision by the acting head of the Supreme Cassation Court was appointed as acting president of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, starting on 12 April 2013. She actively participated in a large number of seminars and professional trainings. He holds a certificate from the judicial centre for the treatment of minors of criminal offences and a certificate from the Faculty of Law on the attending of the seminar "The Code of Criminal Procedure". I note that in the period since 2002, in the next two terms, I was personally the President of the District Court in Kragujevac, so I had the opportunity to make sure both directly of the work and the results of my colleague Dubravka Damjanovic's work. I can say responsibly that it is a very professional, responsible and correct person, who can fully act as President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac. Jocic Dragan and Mitrovic Miomir submitted their applications to the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Nis. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed to the President of the Court of Appeal in Nis Dragan Jocic, who was born in 1953 in Smederev. The Faculty of Law in Belgrade graduated in 1977 and passed the judicial exam in 1979. From 1979 to 1981, he was an associate at the Smederevo District Court, after which he was elected Judge of the Smederev Municipal Court, and was elected Judge of the Smederevo District Court in 1992. In 2005, he was elected judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, where he acted in criminal matter, and was deployed in 2007 to a special department of the Serbian Supreme Court for criminal proceedings with organised crime elements. With the decision of the first VSS since 25 December 2009, he has ceased to serve as Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. In the process of implementing the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, the High Judicial Council made a decision on 13 November 2012 to elect Dragan Jocic as judge of the VCC. The decision by the VCC's performer was appointed acting as acting President of the Court of Appeal in Nis, starting on 12 April 2013. He was the author of several expert reports, he was a lecturer of the Justice Centre in the cycle of education and implementation of criminal legislation. Therefore, honourable MPs, these are biographies in the shortest judge proposed by the VSS for the functions of the abovementioned courts. During the proposal, we were aware of the fact that for three years in this, as well as almost all the courts in Serbia, it is the state of the acting president of the highest courts in the Republic of Serbia, that it is important, given that national justice and judicial reform strategies are being implemented in the coming period, as well as the action plan, that it is significant that at the head of these, once again I say the highest courts in the Republic of Serbia come professional, high moral people, with expressed organisational capacity, to make a maximum contribution to increasing the efficiency, quality, expertise, awareness, but also responsibility, not only for us who work in the judiciary, but for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the fact that the chairman noted that today's common agenda points and the agenda item concerning the election of the President of the Courts, on which I had previously explained the proposal, but that there was also a united agenda point relating to the choice of judges who were first elected to the judge's office, I will only explain in a few sentences the proposal of the High Council in that part. On the basis of Article 47. With regard to the decision on the number of judges in the courts, the High Judicial Council announced on 17 April 2013, the choice of judges in the courts of special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia for the completion of vacant judicial posts in the Administrative Court, the Court of Commerce, the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, Valjev, Novi Sad, Panchev, Sombor and the Court of Commerce in Subotica. 224 candidates submitted to that ad. In the process of electing and proposing candidates to elect judges, the VSS is based on Article 44. On 23 April 2013, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the VSS adopted a Decision on the Education of the Commission for the Selection of Judges, which carried out the examination of the applications submitted for that ad, established their timelyness and completeness and what was very significant, held talks with all the candidates reported and assessed whether the candidates met the criteria and criteria for the selection. In accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty, the Commission shall The Law on Judges, the High Council of the judiciary, has obtained an opinion on the expertise, competence and dignity of all candidates who have submitted their applications. For the candidates who come to the courts, an opinion of the session of all the judges of the court from which the candidate originates, opinions of the session of all judges directly to the High Court, and for the candidates in the order of the judicial assistants, an evaluation of the work, as provided for in Article 50(2), was also provided. The law on judges. For the candidates, since any such not working in the court, an opinion on professionalism, competence, dignity for the exercise of the judicial office of the authorities and organisations in which the candidates work has been obtained, and an opinion of the bar in which the lawyer is registered has been obtained for the candidates in the line of lawyers. By deciding on the candidates' applications for the election of judges to the Administrative Court, the Industrial Appealal and Commercial Courts, the VSS decided at the session held on 11 July 2013 to elect judges to a permanent judicial office and to decide on a proposal for judges who were first elected as judges. When proposing candidates, the VSS found that the candidates met all the conditions for the election prescribed by the Law on Judges and the provisions of the decision on the setting of criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence, dignity for the selection of judges and presidents, which relate to the first choice in the judicial function. In particular, the High Judicial Council assessed the type of work that the applicant had carried out following a judicial examination, in accordance with the provisions of Article 50(1). The law on judges. Therefore, the VSS proposes to the National Assembly that, on the basis of Article 147(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 51(1). The law on judges is elected by Judge Gordan Bogdanovic from Belgrade, Vesna Danilovic from Belgrade, Radojko Marinkovic from Belgrade, Nenad Stojanovic from Nis, Marijana Tafre Mirkov from Belgrade and Biljan Šunderić from Belgrade, for the Judge of the Privred Court in Belgrade, Aleksandar Vasic from Belgrade, for the Judge of the Privred Court in Valjev Jasmin Djurdjevic from Valjev, for the Judge of the Privred Court in Novi Sad Oliver Lazic Rusov of Novi Sad, for the Judge of the Privredna Court in Pance Boško Vukovic from Belgrade and for the Judge of the Court of Commerce at Sombor Biljan Perić from Sombor. According to the assessment of the VSS, candidates, judicial assistants who have received maximum support from the courts in which they work, candidates who have been assessed in the past with a maximum rating – are particularly prominent and meet all conditions regarding expertise, competence and dignity to be elected to the judicial post. The results of their work, by quality and by quantity are well above average. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would be in the shortest lines an explanation of the proposal that the VSS sent to this House regarding the election of the president of the courts for the highest courts in the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the election of judges who were first elected to the judicial office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24630	The word has the chairman of the Committee for Justice, State Administration and local self-government Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24631	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tomic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government held at its session a few days ago, discussed the proposals that came by the VSS to elect the President of the VCC, the President of the Court of Appeal, the President of the Court of Appeal, and decided to propose to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept all the proposals of the VSS they made. In particular, as provided for in Article 144. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Justice, the state administration and local self-government gave an opinion when it comes to the election of the president of the VCC. The opinion is such that it proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect Mr Dragomir Milojevic, the judge of the court, as president of the VCC. You heard the argument by Mr. Tomic, which was all run by the VSS when it was defined for these candidates to propose them for the highest judicial functions in the Republic of Serbia and I would not particularly talk about it, because they would repeat themselves and I would not take up time. I have an obligation to say in two sentences that when it comes to the proposal to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mr Milojevic, that the proposal is also supported at the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court and that, in particular, I stress, unanimously. There are rare opportunities and rare elections in the case of holders of such important judicial functions in one country, including Serbia, that colleagues, and in this particular case, the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court unanimously suggest that the opinion that Mr Dragomir Milojevic be elected President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I cannot finish without saying that I had the pleasure and the honor of being part of the generation, although I am a little older, in Kragujevac, at the Faculty of Law who studied with Mr. Milojevic and I can say for him that the man of words, professions, principles, respect for the law. Therefore, the election of Mr. Milojevic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court will gain importance and expertise, all courts in the Republic of Serbia, and I am sure that at a time when Mr. Milojevic is the President of the Supreme Cassation Court that something that has happened before will not happen in the Serbian judiciary. At the same time, I would like to say that by selecting the highest judicial functions in the Republic of Serbia, we will finally break the vefe state, as popularly said, which has been going on for a long time and that we can say that we are beginning to regulate the Serbian judiciary in one constitutionally established way as far as the Constitution and regulations of this state give the right to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to do so. I call on all MPs of this high house to unanimously support the proposal of the High Council of Justice and the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government and to elect candidates for the presidents of the courts you see from the materials. I think that this way we will take a big step towards improving the work of functioning the Serbian judiciary in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24632	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by MP Marko Milutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24633	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our esteemed home, Mr. Tomic, it is a pleasure to meet you in front of the DSS parliamentary group and our personal name today on the agenda we have proposed points for at least two reasons. First, just like the previous speakers said, which finally after more than three or four years we're coming out of the so-called. vefe states in which we have been introduced since 1 January 2010. As MPs individually, as the National Assembly as a whole, as the first branch of government, we should be aware of the importance that the judicial branch of the government should have in one orderly state system, and therefore the situation that has so far been, a situation that is quite prone to abuses precisely because they are not the presidents of the courts elected, were the performers of functions both of the republican rank and of the low-level courts, and we are particularly pleased that this introduces and establish a final regular state in terms of managing the courts in Serbia, and that after the adoption of a new law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors will be elected and all the presidents of the low-level courts. It's a good thing we're starting today from the Supreme Cassation Court, from the court of republican jurisdiction and from the appeals courts. The second thing that makes me personally happy is today's part of the agenda for selecting judges in the Administrative Court and in business courts, because I am also someone who, by his profession, is a graduate lawyer, from the judiciary, someone who comes to this home from the position of a judicial assistant, someone who, I can freely say, understands the system of justice in Serbia as it works inside. That is why I am pleased that today we have the opportunity to choose judges for the Administrative Court and economic courts today. Why am I saying all this? Because all of us who are in this judicial system know how many judicial and prosecutorial assistants, and in this case we are talking specifically about judicial assistants who are to be elected judges, work and contribute to the functioning of the entire justice system in the Republic of Serbia. Until the adoption of a new Code of Criminal Procedure, all who directly or indirectly participated in the work of the judiciary were well aware of how much work had taken place on the shoulders of the judicial assistants in the previous, or investigative procedure and how they were independently taking certain investigative actions under the authority of their authorised judges. We also know what is the role of a judicial assistant in the off-quick council, who are practically preparing decisions and proposing decision-making to their superior judges, how judicial assistants in the criminal and litigation department write sketches of decisions, what they suggest in making decisions to their principals and all in all how effective the work of the judiciary in that system is. No mention should be made of the importance that the judicial assistants had in the out-of-parley, above all, of the desert procedure in terms of the conduct of the proceedings itself. So these are all things that say how many judicial assistants, people who come from that system itself, and know how this system works, and what's even more important, not only theoretically but practically, is that they've acquired all the necessary skills that qualify them to be, hopefully, judges, first of all, because they have experience in court in one other way and have experience, but in the very course of justice in this indirect way, as I've described it so far. I am pleased that in the biographies of the proposed candidates it is evident that they are fraughtly experienced judicial assistants with years of work in courts and that, I mean also advisers at the Supreme Cassation Court and of assistants in lower courts who are certainly 10 and more than 10 years employed in the positions of judicial assistants. So much before and after the decision, or proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, according to my personal conviction, does not stand that statement by the Minister of Justice, which he made a few months ago, perhaps in an effect, I want to believe that when the judges objected to the choice of earlier judges, that judges mainly serve as judges. Today's proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary is this proof of all the qualifications that I have in my deep confidence, and I see also the assurance of the High Council of the judiciary, and I hope that the present Members of Parliament are also talking about all these qualifications that judges have to be chosen as judges. I really want to personally commend this proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. Mr Tomic is, apart from being the deputy president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and the chairman of the National Commission for the Implementation of the Strategy for Justice Reform. I know Mr. Tomic knows exactly what I'm talking about, and I'd like to take this opportunity to take this debate with something that's happened and something that's just waiting for us. He expects us in the coming period, as much as at the next session, a set of amendments and additions to the laws relating to the judiciary. In the new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, in its Article 18, which states that Article 5 paragraph 3 is amended and reads: “The Supreme Council of the judiciary proposes to the National Assembly of one candidate for the election to one judge. The High Council of the judiciary is obliged to propose a candidate for the selection of a judge of the Criminal Court or of the Court of Justice to propose a candidate who has completed his initial training at the Judicial Academy in accordance with special law. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This basically means that the provisions of the Law on the Judicial Academy will be transposed into the Law on Judges, into the law under which judges of the Administrative and Economic Court are elected today and in some way constitutes a withdrawal of the executive authority that proposes such a law, so that it does not likely unwittingly fall into a trap that it then fell into, during the elections we had here to conduct several months ago. First, this provision of the Law on the Judicial Academy, provisions of Art. The 26th and 40ths were challenged before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court may well have symbolically, on the day of the election of the first generation of initial training of the Judicial Academy for Judges, initiated the procedure of assessing the constitutionality of the Law on the Judicial Academy, which we, according to this bill, will rewrite in the Law on Judges. Then, in the process of proposing candidates for election, this is seen from the minutes of the Council of Justice's session, a dilemma has been expressed between several members of the High Council of the judiciary – whether there is room for such provisions of the Law on the Judicial Academy, whether it is constitutional or not. We are fortunate that the Constitutional Court, hopefully, we would like to believe, in recent times under this proposal, that is, during the course of this constitutional assessment process, and to decide on this dilemma that no doubt exists in the professional and judicial public. At that time, in the discussion, and when the president of the then formed board of the High Council of Justice, concerning the proposal of the Judges, held her opinion that, if the Law on Judges was applied, by which the competition was called, possibly several candidates who had completed the initial training of the Judicial Academy could be proposed for judges, while the vast majority would have been proposed probably, I do not want to speak on behalf of others, out of the ranks of the remaining candidates, almost all of whom were from the ranks of the judicial assistants. It is then mentioned that the condition of further European integration is Serbia and the full application of the Law on the Judicial Academy. Right away, neither I nor anyone from the DSS parliamentary group has anything against any candidate who has completed the initial training of the Judicial Academy, but today's debate is a system in which the Serbian judiciary should function in the future. So we are aware that in the future there will probably be only one way to enter the judiciary, probably through the Judicial Academy, but in the opinion of the Venice Commission, which you have on the issue of the Judicial Academy, the Venice Commission also believes that this is the only way to enter the judiciary, to choose the judge and prosecutor's position, but that the Judicial Academy has not yet reached a planned and important degree of training, that the programmes that were to be adopted so far have not been adopted, and that it does not fully fulfil its legal obligations and some way of working that, as an idea itself, it envisions. Of course, we come up with another questionable thing in the course of the election, which I'm glad there's no current election, and these are the ranking lists. We had, under circumstances, a situation where here, in the National Assembly, last time we proposed a candidate who was not from the ranks of people who completed the initial training of the Judicial Academy. At that time, in the biographies that the MPs had the opportunity to see, it was said that the High Council of the Judiciary was proposing to the candidate, in which case, as first placed on the ranking list he set out. In order to subsequently, when requested by interested persons of the ranking list, the High Judicial Council replied that the ranking list does not exist because it has never been established. For me, it's neither a goal nor an interest in destroying in any way the institution of the High Council of the Judiciary, but these are things that really, at least, cannot happen. The proposed candidates for the presidents of the courts today include people that I, from a professional point of view, greatly appreciate, as top-notch criminals. I'm talking about people I know, which directly, which indirectly, through the work of my superior judges and whose knowledge and expertise I greatly appreciate and respect, and I really don't say order, but by deeply believing what I'm saying. They might be able to estimate if there's more to it than I'm saying shouldn't happen. These ranking lists are extremely important to us because they show what is visible today in this proposal, and that is how many judges, especially those with more experience, with the assessments they have, with the support of their collective, or their supposed judges from their sessions, or how many Serbia already has trained staff who can assume the duty to perform judicial duties, or judicial functions. I'm asking you here -- isn't it paradoxical that today for the Judges of the Administrative Court and the Commercial Court, the Administrative Court, which is the court of the Republic, we're choosing candidates who came from the order of the Judges' Assistants, and that we'll be obliged tomorrow if I, I hope, won't be voted on by this provision in the Law on Judges, where shall we give priority to judges of the Basic and Violent Courts to the members of the Judicial Academy? Isn't that paradoxical in itself? If they meet the conditions and if they are good and in this contest, and 224 candidates have been reported, from what comes out of the text I assume that there were candidates who did not come from the ranks of the judicial assistants, if they are so good that they are chosen today as judges of the administrative courts, why not be better qualified to be elected judges of the basic and criminal courts? I once again appeal to the High Council of the Judiciary, the Commission on the implementation of the judicial reform. We need a period of transition, if I may call it, on the functioning of the Judicial Academy and on election for judges. We shouldn't always force things without all the time talking about how it's a condition for European integration. And I am responsibly telling you that this is not the condition of European integration, nor that it is placed in any nearer perspective than any condition. On the other hand, I, as well as my parliamentary group, are not in favour of Serbia's further European integration. So, again, we are in principle supporting and looking forward to these proposals that are coming today, but it is really very important that the High Council of the judiciary, that MPs, that the entire expert public understand that today's topic is a much broader issue than the one we are voting on today. In the perspective, a large number of judicial assistants and prosecutorial assistants, I can speak freely analogly, will come out of the judiciary unless he sees any perspective of the election, and what you plan to change in the Law on Judges, or to prescribe a provision from the Law on the Judicial Academy, certainly won't keep anyone in the profession. And in doing so, it's already happening today that a large number of them, you know very well, Mr. Tomic, are leaving the profession because he doesn't see any perspective for later elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24634	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24635	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tomic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to express my satisfaction that we can talk to you today, Mr. Tomic, as with the mandated elector for high-level judicial functions. We are pleased that parliament took seriously all of our remarks that we highlighted a few months ago when we discussed here candidates who were first elected judges in basic courts. I am glad that we can discuss some things that concern directly the High Council of the Judiciary, the election of judges and what kind of justice policy is and how the judiciary is determined by certain factors of political life in Serbia. I'm just sorry that he's not sitting next to you today and candidate for the future President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Mr. Milojevic. It is very important for a man who will take up the highest position of judicial office in Serbia to be present when discussing his election, as well as when discussing the other presidents of the appeals courts and the administrative court, as well as the offender. It is a significant lack of today's debate. But independent of that, let's start with the metrics, as you, Mr. Tomic, would say when you judge. So I really believe that you know the situation in the judiciary very well. You know the state of it, the way it is now, and I really don't think I could tell you anything new that you don't already know. No criticism, no comment and no proposal in this regard to clarifying certain things about the past and the present would have an effect, because it was simply a matter of fact. We have talked so many times about what the problems of the Serbian judiciary are, so it is already one general place that the Serbian judiciary is in serious crisis. He's in a serious crisis because there's a lot that's been missed, a lot that's been done wrong, and a lot of things that just can't be done because there are certain restrictions. We should actually discuss the future of the Serbian judiciary, in which direction it moves and what you are as the High Council of the judiciary, which is actually the main creator of the entire work of the judiciary, in the obligation to do and how you think to improve the current state of affairs. In the last year two important decisions have been made in the domain of the judiciary and both decisions are in fact political. Therefore, politics has also involved its fingers in the decision regarding the return of judges to courts not elected in 2009 and the replacement of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. We can't just push that away and we can't say that it won't affect the future work of the judiciary. Both of these decisions have found their legal basis in the decisions of the Constitutional Court. However, only by implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Court, both the minister of justice and the acting president of the Supreme Cassation Court have in fact only confirmed the fact that the main problem remains in the work of the judiciary, and the main problem concerns the independence of its work. So when we talk about the independence of the work of the judiciary, we think about its relationship to the executive government, its relationship with parliament, its relationship with all state institutions that have certain interference in the work and functioning of the entire state apparatus. Whether the Serbian judiciary was ever independent, that is a serious question. The answer depends on whether the policy which had the current power over a given period of time has been major or minor interference in the work of the judiciary. All reforms of the judiciary that were and were initiated have in fact begun to distance the position and work of the judiciary from the authorities, compared to the dominant political line that was current. As far as it goes, he's actually talking about the situation in which the judiciary is located. All the bombistic announced reforms have largely taken place somewhere because of a lack of political will to drive things out to cleanup and that the justice system really gets that most significant quality, which is independence, as a condition for all conditions for the judiciary to function effectively, that the judiciary works independently, independently and professionally, to have the judiciary take up the position that the Constitution has provided for it. Mr. Tomic, when we talk about these candidates that you have talked about and proposed today, we would really not single out any candidates individually, and we would not really enter into that kind of discussion if we were to belittle anyone in any way or question the conditions that you believe are met that all of these candidates today be the subject of the assembly debate. But there is some uncertainty about proposing candidates, because when we read an explanation of why individual candidates are proposed, we can find that you have six views in these arguments and that the last three positions represent identical texts, only names change. So, as in some form, you explained why you consider these candidates to be the best-quality judges, or people who can take up such high-level judicial functions in the Serbian judiciary. It's not even that problem, that you've really explained the reasons for your decision, but the problem is that you're sending a message that doesn't give us the right to be optimistic about the outcome and the current reform of the judiciary. Because if you do not work transparently, if you do not give a clear public insight into this work of yours, I am speaking primarily in the work of the High Council of the judiciary, because you were the one who proposed a certain decision to adopt this Parliament, in which case we can further expect to do some things that the public will know nothing about. Therefore, we can also confirm the existence of a reasonable doubt in the quality of the work of the High Council of the judiciary, in the sense of proposing future candidates for judges. I think the primary objective of the High Council of the judiciary should be to work to finally stop the generation of loyal and politically dependent judicial personnel, because that is the only way you will achieve this even greater goal, which is the independence of the judiciary. There is no transparency in proposing these candidates. We really don't doubt the expertise of the candidates or their biographies, but doubt comes up with your motives why you suggested these candidates, when you had more candidates ahead of you, which I suppose they all met certain conditions that the law predicted. It's our basic grudge and our basic question that we're giving you. Mr. Tomic, whenever we discussed the judiciary in this House, we asked a specific question – what is the current number of judges in Serbia? We never got a concrete answer to that. I repeat that question, for the reason that a few months ago we chose judges first. Today, we have 11 judicial candidates for the judge's office again. We know that at least 600 judges were returned to the courts by the Constitutional Court, we know that at the beginning of the reform there were 34 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, which almost doubled European standards by the number of courts, we know that we have a problem with the network of courts. The draft law on the network of courts is going to that solution to double the number of geographical positions of courts. If it is considered that the elected judges of 2009 remained to judge and work, that you have returned some who have not been chosen, that you are now choosing new ones, how is it possible for us to reach some European standards regarding the required number of judges? That is one practical question – do we need that particular number of judges? That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Tomic, we are really interested in whether you analyzed the situation of the court's work before all these judges returned to courts that were not elected in 2009 and their work for last year, say, since when have they been working at full capacity? Have you seen any improvement in the functioning of the judiciary, in the speed of efficiency of trial, expertise and the like? Do you have any indicators that suggest that the level of quality and efficiency of the trial is raised in a year? All of these are some organisational issues, some of the issues that are crucial to citizens who are very poor at estimating the work of the judiciary and who really do not trust a large percentage in the work of the judiciary, and as far as expertise is concerned, and as far as efficiency and independent work is concerned. The next question that we are really interested in is – how do you think to exclude the influence of the executive authority on the work of the judiciary and on the work of the courts when you align the new draft law on judges of a provision relating to the choice of judges with the provisions of the Law on the Judicial Academy? The Judicial Academy predicts in fact one body as an exception to the public in terms of the reception of new candidates as a member of the Judicial Academy who will appear here tomorrow as candidates for future judges. You have a board of directors, you have a program board, you have a commission to conduct an admission exam, but in each of these bodies you have a clearly indicated role of executive authority, you have a clear right of that executive authority to influence the reception of the students, and therefore, somewhere in the shadows, it also affects the choice of future judges. I'm glad you came out here today with a proposal of 11 judicial assistants for future judges. You have shown that you appreciate the work of these judicial assistants because each of these candidates has been working as a judge for quite a long time. It's okay. But it's not right that the confusion you're creating, and now with this good proposal. Generally, it's a problem, both the judiciary and the general functioning of this country, that somehow it's difficult to take a clear line of development and modernisation, and somehow we keep going back to the beginning. What does that confusion consist of? While we spoke and criticised a few months ago about how big the problem was that all candidates were students or candidates who had completed the Judicial Academy, only one candidate was from the ranks of the judicial assistants, then the answer was that it was foreseen by the Law on the Judicial Academy. In doing so, it was lost in view of the fact that it was in full collegiation with certain provisions of the Law on Judges. Today, you are not proposing candidates who have completed the Judicial Academy, but you are proposing only judicial assistants, and we have a proposal for a law on judges that once again adapts to the needs of the Law on the Judicial Academy. So that's a pretty vague message. Mr. Tomic, a lot of questions about the work of the judiciary have really been raised. Issues have been raised regarding the functioning of courts that have been through one reform, which are going through another reform, and what is the guarantee that we will ever get to some realization of all these reforms that have been countered through the Serbian judiciary for the past 20 years? Is the High Council of the Judiciary dealing with this problem in terms of directing a political factor or a statement of its own importance in the sense that the judiciary is of quality only if it can decide on its existence, on its work and on its actual functioning? (President: Time, Mrs. Judith, you've been talking for 20 minutes. Just one more question. Thank you for listening to me, I expect certain answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24636	There's a word from MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24637	Mr President, Mr. President, Mr. High Council of the judiciary, the SP and DHSS have studied biographies very carefully, and since we also have a lot in our parliamentary group of MPs who know the situation in our judiciary, most of the proposals for the presidents of the courts are acceptable to us, because they are people who have good professional biographies, people who meet most of the conditions that a judge needs to meet. Usually when it says "judgment," it's supposed to be professional, it needs to be impartial, it needs to be objective, it needs to be up-to-date, but we need to be brave. We had until 1941, a judicial system that was largely impartial and objective and independent of political authority. The violent revolution gave us the political judiciary where literally the Communist Party's central committees made decisions concerning the fate of the people. The matrix of our judiciary's dependence on political authority has largely marked all attempts at judicial reform since 1990. It seems to me that now a positive kind of discontinuity is emerging by giving people a chance from the judiciary, people from the profession and people from the reputation. Let's not forget, and it seems to me, here are the previous debaters who did not have any particular objections to the proposed biography, particularly the president of Serbia's most important courts, precisely because of the fact that they mainly came from the judiciary, that they proved themselves in judicial practice and that they primarily have the support of people from the profession. It is a good sign for citizens and a good sign for the High Council of the Judiciary that we are finally trying to measure some other criteria compared to those we had before. All research shows this, and every day in our meetings with citizens, we find it very easy to conclude that citizens' estimates are identical to the analyses we carry out and the European Commission's reports, that our judiciary is still quite slow, that judges are buried in cases, that it is quite inefficient, that those fundamental constitutional rights, the right to trial within a reasonable time are largely not respected. The problems of our judiciary are really big. Question who can solve them? I can get rid of them first of all good judges. Of course, it's a good organisation of the court's work, but let's not forget that it depends on the judge for most of it. What was the practice with the people who were proposed, like Mr Dragomir Milojevic, for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Mr. Dragan Milojevic is Kragujevcan. I am personally aware of and I mean not only the judicial public and the general public that it is a judge who has literally passed every step in our judiciary, by a judicial intern, by an investigative judge, by working in a criminal council, by the President of the District Court in Kragujevac. Then he worked in the criminal department of the Supreme Court of Serbia, served as vice president of the Judicial Practices Department, and worked in the War Crimes Department, and acted and acted and, above all, strongly and professionally in some very complex cases for which our public was interested. Then there's something going on that matrix is the legacy of our past. One such judge as anyone would wish in their ranks and who now has general support, above all his colleagues. The High Council of the judiciary relieved him of his judicial duties in 2009. One such vessel with a huge experience, a judge who, I say, enjoys the respect of his colleagues, is resolved at some years when the most he can give to the Serbian judiciary begins to deal with law enforcement. What's good is that this great injustice that has been done not only to that judge, according to many judges, has been removed. I haven't heard any complaints from the previous two colleagues about the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, but I'd really like to hear a lot about whether someone who has such a brilliant judge's biography will appear has something to object to. It seems to me, in advance, I'm allowed to bet that there won't be, if there are, they'll be, in any case, for all the reasons I've put out and shown the biography, absolutely flat. As for the election of the President of the Administrative Court, the Chamber of Appeal, the Greater Criminal Court, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac, it is again people from the profession, people from the judiciary, people with enormous experience. I wouldn't be particularly interested in any biography, because it seems to me, that the High Court Alliance in this part did a pretty good job of measuring it. What is for our parliamentary group with the biography attached, as regards the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial function of strangers, that is exactly the kind of choice and that is quite logical, because as judicial assistants they did not have the opportunity to do so or the chance that they are now indicated to prove themselves judges. What can be encouraged in any case is that we choose judges who have been judicial assistants who have certainly been involved in often making decisions. Of course, it was signed by the judge, but we all know that judicial assistants do very important things and are very helpful in the work of judges. In any case, it's always better for us to take someone who has that kind of experience in court, compared to someone who comes from the economy or some other branch of law, who needs to be familiar with the basic affairs of the court. This process of getting acquainted with jobs and the process of maturing must require a certain time. We have largely stored personnel like this. Because of the fact that we have approached all personal solutions quite cautiously before, and rarely when we dared to give special thanks to certain candidates in advance, for the first time, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I said something like this to the candidate for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because I am absolutely familiar with the current biography and work of the judge, as well as with candidates for the presidents of the most significant courts in Serbia. Therefore, expect that our parliamentary group in the voting day will support these proposals by not completing our political work. We will follow very closely because of the very bad experiences from the past the work of all proposed candidates, especially the President of the Courts, the efficiency in their work, the quality of decision making, the independence in their work. We hope and believe that the day will come when both MPs and citizens and the European Commission and the general public with much more confidence will, above all, go to a place where justice is sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24638	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24639	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is taught that in the first year of the Faculty of Law, the right system of social norms sanctioned by the state. The textbook from which I taught Professor Radomir Lukic's right, defined the state as an apparatus of power in the hands of the ruling class. It is likely that if Professor Lukic wrote a textbook today, he would redefine this definition in order to define the state as the apparatus of power in the hands of the ruling party, namely one party that rules this country. Today he was telling me about the election of the President of the Court, the choice of judges whose office this is practically the first choice, but where are we today in the area of justice? We are in a situation that a significant number of citizens do not even report less significant, to call them so, crimes, because they know they will never be processed. So, the citizens who were robbed of the car, who had been robbed of the barn, who had been robbed of the cottage, etc., etc. those acts are almost no longer reported. We know what's going on in the Vojvodina villages, that there's already been an organized village guard somewhere, to defend ourselves against the perpetrators of these crimes. In this general atmosphere, where courts, unfortunately, are ineffective, we today have the choice of President of the Courts to perform this function in a safe, impartial manner, and we have the fact that the first function of law from the beginning of the story, namely the definition that the right system of social norms sanctioned by the state, therefore there is no sanction – exists. So we're in the lobby of an irregular state, or a state where there are no laws, or laws that don't apply, that I'm not talking about street violence, that I'm not talking about the rampage of certain cheerleading groups that have hundreds of criminal charges, which are very good guests and welcome to many receptions when they need to serve their purpose. So we don't have an effective judiciary, what Mr. Chikiriz was talking about, or he was talking specifically about the property of a good judge, therefore, that he's independent, impartial, that he's efficient, of course he has a reputation in his profession and that he has a reputation in society, which is also manifested through the care of the state about him. Today, we are choosing, or discussing the choice of the President of the Courts in a situation where we have these days had a curtain of one of the objects known as the subject of "Yugoscan", where we all laugh at the face of injustice and the fact that the people of that case, that is, the man of the case, are sickened by many families. The case was created at a time when people who are now in power were in power and this case became obsolete in the period when the same nomenclature was in power, when the case was created. We know the pyramids' savings when they were made. I hope that the High Council of the Judiciary has a good excuse for that, there is here among the proposals at a very responsible place for a judge whose time while he was running the case, an outdated case of "Ilarion". I hope that the High Council of Justice has enough arguments to propose this man to the most responsible place, that is, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. It's a very responsible function. I hope, I say once again, that you had enough arguments that his colleagues' proposal was somehow sufficiently reasoned. So, in all likelihood, he had the support of judges who supported him, or his colleagues, in that case. But, gentlemen, you have one inconsistencies in that. You have a proposal for the President of the Administrative Court, who didn't have the support of his colleagues. At the general session of the Administrative Court, the candidate received at least the votes. So, the first candidate received 16 votes, the second candidate of 10 votes, the third candidate of six votes and, behold, the fourth candidate with four votes, at least the vote was proposed for the post. So, there's something missing in consistency. This is where you were probably led by what Mr. Chikiriz was talking about, a good explanation that this judge can perform such a responsible function despite the fact that he, without a legal basis, without a real explanation, has already lost his office once, is now being elected to a very responsible function. On the other hand, you have a very unprincipled attitude in the criteria. So you're proposing a judge who's got at least the votes, so he doesn't have the support of his colleagues' profession. The judiciary is the foundation of every country, in addition to the health that my colleague spoke of this morning, in addition to our schooling, we know what our health situation was like, we know what our almost state of education was, and we'll see if the new minister changes anything. The third pillar, there almost looks like we all agree, is on very low branches. It's been a year and a half since the election of a new authority that spoke about judicial reform. The four system laws came into the assembly procedure and were withdrawn, so they came back into the procedure and were withdrawn, so the third time they came into the procedure, and they were withdrawn, and now we have new suggestions. What were you doing for a year and a half, asking the representatives of the ruling party, what was the minister doing? As I listened to his reasoning, several months ago, the EU reportedly has some objections to this reform of judicial reform. Are we prisoners of the ministry or the EU? Tell us clearly and loudly, why did you not implement this announced reform and why today we have inefficient courts where cases are piled up, dissatisfaction, and those tried and tried? What do we have today, gentlemen, a billion and a half dinars the state owes to lawyers and judges to jurors, so some cases are being postponed because of the fact that they will no longer work for free and that the jurors will no longer sit in the council for free? Was there anything you could move to pay people what they were doing? Is it only the right to justice that anyone who has to pay an expensive lawyer, only one who has the right or the money to buy his own, to say so, freedom to sit at home and wait for a trial, and these others should wait in overcrowded prisons because they don't have the money to pay for a good lawyer, and you won't pay for lawyers who defend themselves under official duty, you won't pay jury judges? Is that how he fights for the rule of law? The point of the judiciary, the purpose of the work of the MUP, is legal certainty. Unfortunately, these legal certaintys are getting smaller and smaller. We were already talking about amnesty today. One broad amnesty, which disavowed all the efforts of police authorities, the judiciary, all those who should sanction the violation of the law. Instead, we got amnesty, not to worry about these people when they get out, how they'll be resocialized. Now what can these judges, which we are choosing for the presidents of the courts, tell their colleagues how to motivate them to do, when perhaps tomorrow, after some next election, they will again be abolized, or amnested first, and then, after that, ambolized by the president by some others, for the verdicts they have made? The choice of these people remains in the shadow of this topic when we talk about the election of the President of the Court, about the most important functions in the judiciary, about people who should establish order, increase efficiency and bring our judiciary into the frameworks that people feel safe when beaten in the street, like the other day in Vrbas, that the perpetrators will soon be caught and prosecuted before the court. Unfortunately, that's not happening. An increasing fear, such as the fear of sick people for their health, is the growing fear of the people that justice that the rule of law owes them will not be achieved. (President: Mr. Veselinovic...) () Chairman, I am bringing an end. In this regard, given the reserves we have on individual personal solutions, we will declare ourselves on each individual case, or proposal, in the voting day. Our message is that on the agenda here today, or in the previous months, there should have been judicial reform, serious work in the judiciary, and then the appointment of the bearers of the most important judicial functions. Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24640	You have no right to a replica. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can speak according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24641	Members 104, 107, whatever it takes. I thought we were talking today, Mr. Chairman, about the motions to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Administrative Court, the Court of Commerce, and I really didn't know that this is the time when we're reading the ordered composition of how much we hate SNS and how much the literary concepts, how much this width now, let's make something up, let's just say anything, just to show how we need to get an A from work how much we hate SNS. If this is a topic for parliament and if this is a topic and this assembly speaker is used for all sorts of things without talking about the subject of the agenda, then I think that, Mr. Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. I believe that when someone doesn't want us to go back, and now he's talking about wildlings on the streets of Belgrade and on the streets of Serbia, then I would like to know that in October 2010, when Belgrade was torn apart, and God damn it and some heads, there were ballerinas on the streets. They weren't fans. They weren't hooligans. The hooligans somehow came to Serbia, the hooligans are all who voted for change in Serbia. We heard in the afternoon debate that in the alcoholic state there were people in Vrbas. So 40 percent of the people of Vrbba are alcoholics, just because they voted for change and for SNS and you tolerate it, Mr. Chairman. It's the humiliation of this house. Do you want to talk about judicial reform? Let's talk about judicial reform. Let's talk about the topics they have imposed on us and about the EU's pucks we've been getting for judicial reform. Who said a nice word about judicial reform from the previous government? A reform that meant only taking down judges, only our judges to do what we order them to do and to do what they're told. It's not judicial reform. The reform of the judiciary is how you treated the state and the judiciary. How were you responsible? Where was your strategy against organised crime and corruption? Why wasn't she here after 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24642	As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I can agree with you in the section when it comes to the debate on the agenda. All the speakers so far have spent 90% of their time past the agenda topic. It's clear to me that 20 minutes can't be talked if you stick to the strict agenda. It's a purely personal question. Either I support someone, or I don't. Given the need for individual MPs to simply spend this time, I have allowed them to step down from the agenda, and in that sense I support that it is true. The rest is an impression, and that's why I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24643	Chairman, I think you've hurt an officer. 106th and 107th. I think you should have given a warning to the previous speaker because he spoke beyond what he appeared or insulted the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He insulted the dignity of the citizens by saying that in Vrbas, 40% of the citizens were on the stand, I don't know what he said, voted for the SNS. So I don't think that's true. They voted for the SNS because all possible state machinery, state resources, infrastructure was used to implement political torture over a small municipality. On the other hand, in my presentation, I couldn't help but talk about the justice that's on the agenda today. I didn't mention any of my sentences to the SNS, not a single sentence, I was just talking about the judiciary, the judicial authorities, the judges and the ineffectiveness of the judiciary. I've brought everything into context with the fact that today we choose the most responsible people for the most responsible functions. The fact that some MPs are offended by the truth is their problem. Every time they have a problem with that, I have no problem telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24644	Mr. Veseinovic, I must say, the part that caused the advertising of the Rules of Procedure's injuries certainly lies in your debate that was out of the agenda. On that side, I understand both sides. Please, all of this wouldn't have happened if all the MPs had stuck to the strict agenda. I couldn't agree more. So, please, you can't criticize someone else who doesn't stick to the agenda, and you don't stick to the agenda. Please, in that sense, you must help me not to apply the measures where I am authorized by the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24645	Article 107. I really don't want to make this debate any harder. I'd like to and invite all my colleagues to enter a normal stream. He likes the invitation to talk about the truth. The truth should be spoken of. I think that's what citizens expect us to do and ask for, but it's part of the political folklore in Serbia, unfortunately, to throw a stone, to turn that stone on the water, and then when it's proven that it's not true, it's nothing, but it's taking a much bigger stone. We were present here, Mr. Chairman, when the assembly speaker was told that for the last year and three months since the formation of the Government, no indictments were filed, and then, no matter how many people raised their hands and wanted justice and washed away from it, when a report by the Special Court was brought the next day, on which no judge was changed, no one was removed, although it was part of the experience and experience from that famous reform of the judiciary and when it proved to have been raised and confirmed 180 indictments, was silenced, and a little larger stone was sought to throw on the SNS and this Government of the Republic of Serbia. Where's the responsibility for that? When are they going to break up with that attitude and that kind of political gesture and political speech? When will the facts and the truth be discussed? When will the devastation of values that we are trying to bring into our society stop? When are you going to realize that you're watering your own tar and feathers by landing Erbasov's first plane at "Nikola Tesla" Airport, you wanted to represent yourself as if a sparrow had landed?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24646	Time. Please, and Mr. Granny, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure, at least in that sense help me. You're using the Rules of Procedure's breach as a replica. I'd have to tell you the same thing. Please bring in the debate and the advertising of the Rules of Procedure in relation to what is said, and not now to spread the debate about it. The word is made by MP Nikola Tulimirovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24647	Article 107. I think you violated the Rules of Procedure by not preventing the previous speaker from happening immediately, but not in the last one, but in the last one, because he advertised his injury by saying, “104. and 107, whatever." With respect to everything he said afterwards, I don't think that's the way anyone should be talking in this house at all, in this assembly, because as clear or unclear as it may be, at least it shows me a clear relationship of misrepresentation of institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24648	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24649	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I am advertising the violation of Rule 108, paragraph 1, which says it's the turn at the National Assembly session of the old National Assembly president. So I ask you first not to let the MPs yell at you. It bothers me when someone yells at a man your age. I hear very well. I was taught in college that it's just a trait of stupid people who can't get their arguments into something to convince them to go to the screams. Don't make them yell at you. You don't deserve to be yelled at. It's not nice for this lofty home. On the other hand, don't let the MPs talk about the truth, but insist on telling the truth, so when they understand the difference, then we'll move on in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24650	I don't experience any debate here that anyone yells at me. I'm experiencing a way and style of expression. So I don't experience any of you at all. Secondly, I ask you to let me run this assembly the way I know and can. Whether I'm good at it or not, you can evaluate it in the end, to give the court a ruling on it. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24651	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Mr. Tomic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. In these words, the professional public commented on the judicial reform implemented by the former regime. The election, i.e. re-election of judges who executed the Supreme Council of the judiciary in December 2009 was at least illegal, and it was certainly both non-transparent and non-democratic. They set themselves up, chose themselves, and decided who was like him and who wasn't. People, more specifically the judges, the unsuitable ones, were wiped with a rubber, giving no argument as to why they were not re-elected. The judicial reform process in Serbia began in 2008, when the High Judicial Council was tasked with reviewing the entire work of the judiciary in Serbia, meaning around 3,000 judges were due to review. When selecting judges, the High Judicial Council was to apply some criteria, such as qualifications, integrity, efficiency. However, not only were no criteria applied, but they worked behind closed doors. At that point, nearly 800 judges lost their jobs, ran out of work, and 90% of those judges who lost their jobs, who were not re-elected to serve as judges, filed an appeal to the Serbian Constitutional Court. In December 2010, however, the government of the Republic of Serbia made a decision suspending jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and authorising the Supreme Council of the judiciary to decide on complaints. This led to the situation that the complaints of the judges who were brought to the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary were just being debated by those whose complaints and objected. This is exactly the explanation of what I said at the beginning – cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. During that, I can say freely, poor judicial reforms have been replaced by many judicial stakeholders who have had great careers, decades of work, personal integrity and impeccable morality. However, the former regime seems to have been unnecessarily and unnecessary. On the contrary, they praised their reform, and against anyone who rebelled against it, they carried out media persecution. Individuals at the time gave themselves the right to even text messages order investigations and to make arrests. They wrote laws according to personal needs, mostly such laws that served to discipline all honorable and safe citizens who opposed their wishes and in carrying out their personal and business interests. Of that kind, I say, democratic persecution has not been excluded either by judges or prosecutors, so I can say freely even insubordination lawyers who have dared publicly criticise the harmful decisions of the former authorities and question their decisions and question their legitimacy. However, I hope that at least some of them will be responsible for what they did. As our people say, justice may be slow, but attainable. Serbia's judiciary remains in V.D. a condition in which the party discipline of judges and of all non-insects has become a simple daily routine. In the absence of justice, corruption flourished. The cost of their destructive action was paid and still paid by citizens who had to go tens of miles to get to the courts in search of justice. In this way, we can conclude that there is no word about the availability of justice for all Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens have the right to know why some did not implement the law of the prescribed obligation, why the election, i.e. the re-election of judges and prosecutors, was non-transparent and was not public, why the choice of judges was not carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, why no one assessed the work of judges and prosecutors three years ago, why there were no unequivocal criteria for assessing the work of judges and prosecutors. The Serbian Progressive Party also warned at the time that such behaviour would now result in the former authorities not only in the long-term collapse of Serbia's judiciary, but also in the process of Serbia's EU accession. However, it wasn't just us who noticed such a thing, many international institutions, such as the European Commission and the Council of Europe, expressed doubts about the judicial reform process in Serbia. The European Commission's 2010 Progress Report on Serbia has shown serious concerns and Serbia's re-election process. The report pointed to a problematic choice of members of the Judiciary Council, a lack of clear criteria in making their decisions and that judges were elected under political pressure. The work of the judiciary was also further compromised, as the sessions were held behind closed doors. Also, in the 2011 report of the Anti-Corruption Council, it was said that a large number of newly elected judges had far worse results than those who had not been elected, more specifically than those who lost their jobs, which is another proof that there were no clear criteria for selecting judges. At the end of the year, it ends four full years that the courts in the Republic of Serbia do not have the elected president of the courts. As I have already stated, Serbia's judiciary has been left in V.D. a state with poor judicial reform, which is indeed a devastating fact. In addition, the fact that EU Accession Commissioner Stefan File said the rights of judicial reform in Serbia are yet to come. We from the SNS want Serbia to become a legally regulated state. We want zero tolerance for crime and corruption. We want Serbia to be a country of rule of law, Serbia to be a state in which the Constitution and laws are respected. The current government and the Justice Department have done a thorough analysis of the so-called judicial reform and brought about, and this House adopted a National Strategy for Justice Reform, which aimed at correcting all mistakes and injustices made in previous years. The national strategy for judicial reform is being implemented in parallel with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in a legal, democratic and transparent manner. Representatives of the international community are surprised by the fact that they now have a minister who does not need a translator, that there is someone in Serbia who understands what a state-law order is. They are also surprised by the fact that the minister of justice works in the best interests of citizens from whose country he comes. However, the consequences of such a poor inherited situation in the judiciary are also measured materially, in money. Today, they are measured in millions of dinars, which, of course, will be charged to citizens of Serbia and thanks to the mistakes of the former regime. For that money, we could open new jobs today. We could pay people a lot of wages and pensions, scholarship our best students and athletes...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24652	Mrs. Rakic, now I'm asking you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24653	Here, I'll be back, but since you're letting them be a little wide, I'll just finish the sentence. With that money, we could have done anything, not paid for the mistakes they deliberately and consciously made. But, as I have already stated, we hope that at least some will be responsible for their actions and I believe that, in that old case, justice may be slow but accessible. Today, we are facing the motions for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the President of the Administrative Court, the President of the Court of Appeal, the President of the Higher Criminal Court, as well as the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac, as well as a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected as judges. The National Assembly shall take this decision in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Selection of Judges, as well as with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. At a session held on 16 July this year, the High Judicial Council set out a proposal for the names of the proposed judges. I'm not talking about any candidates. It was done by Mr. Tomic at the beginning, so I wouldn't repeat myself and read their biography again. I want to say to the public that the proposed candidates for the presidents are people of integrity, rich biographies and recorded legal knowledge expressed over decades of work on all levels of justice. They've got a hard day and a day's work ahead of them. They need to make the courts more efficient. They need to restore the faith of Serbian citizens to good justice. That is why it is urgent to appoint the presidents of the courts who, along with this obligation, will bear responsibility for their work. It is clear that there is no effective fight against corruption without an effective thorough work of the judiciary. The Serbian Progressive Party will not give up protecting the principles of constitutionality and legality. That is why we will support the election of candidates for the president of the judge who proposed the High Council of the Judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24654	Thank you. Thank you especially for respecting my suggestion. National MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24655	Chairman, since Mr Babic is not here to advertise the Rules of Procedure, here I will do it on behalf of mine and his, since I am sure we share the same belief that a colleague in her presentation spoke beyond the agenda. Article 106. Rules of Procedure. That's what we agree on, is that right, Chairman, since you're a colleague and you warned her about it? I will use part of the breach of the Rules of Procedure to say similar to what Mr. Babic did, but much more by sticking to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24656	Mr. Veselinović, don't go back to what happened. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24657	The colleague spoke about the choice of the judge who had made the previous regime and talked about the fact that the previous regime had been practically wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24658	I know, Mr. Veselinovic, but what does that have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24659	Mr. Chairman, you've allowed Mr. Babic twice to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure and to speak both times as a replica, and you won't let me finish, in two minutes to say why a colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure, or you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you let her speak. Now I ask you to allow me to tell you in the next minute why my colleague has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. So she was speaking besides the subject of selecting judges in the previous period, saying that all the judges who were not elected were great judges. I can't agree with that. They may agree that among the unselected judges were those judges who may have performed their duties with honor and may have suffered pain and suffering. But unfortunately, we will have a situation that all 600 and some judges will get serious money from the state from the citizens' pockets and that thus no injustice will be corrected against those individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24660	When it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, I just want to find out next. Mr. Veselinović, I warned you in 13 minutes, and Mrs. Rakic in 8 minutes. I have to admit, Mrs. Rakic has moved on to the subject. However, you're almost finished, and I thank you for respecting my intervention. I don't think that can be considered a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The second thing I'm saying is that the question of truth that any of the MPs are talking about, I don't want to, and I've repeated it several times, to go in. Please don't ask me to be the judge here, I don't have that function. Are you asking us to make this clear on the day of the vote? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. ( ) Since more than one authorised representative has not been reported, we are going to the list. The first speaker is Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24661	Mr President-in-Office, Mr. VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today is the day when we open a discussion on the giving of our views, my opinion on the election, first of all I would say to the president of the VCC of Serbia, and then the presidents of the courts of administrative, criminal and appeals courts in Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac. I would like to point out that in a year and three months or 15 months, we have been able to pay our respects to Serbia in total. We were able to reach the proposal that the VSS gave to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia without any of us as an MP, without anyone from the Republic Government or any ministry interfered, gave his opinion, gave his suggestion or did not God call someone at night and intervened for someone, text messages, and gave opinions on who should be favored, who is close to our party, who was the enemy of some of the parties who were in power earlier. Of course, there was no such thing. What we have received on the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government as an explanation for the choice of VCC President is completely encouraging for all citizens of Serbia, for me as a professional who has been in the business for almost 25 years. It is a sign that we have come into a situation that without any influence we can choose the presidents of the courts, we choose the judges, we decide the profession, that it can, should, and will continue to be so, that it is decided in the procedure prescribed. For this reason and for the public, I would like to read the explanation for me as a melom on the wound, given that I was very painfully involved and personally affected by the reform of the judiciary by the previous authorities, and as regards the election of judges in 2009, when one's women from Vranje as judges who had the best results were sent to Novi Pazar, when many other highly professional figures and judges and prosecutors were resolved. It is about people who spent 30, 35 years very honorably, highly professionally and morally doing their job for which the public in Serbia had only words of praise. Professional publicity, especially. They were resolved in one of the roughest, most escalating ways by letting a fama per fam in cities where they lived that they were co-workers of some criminal groups, that they participated in the release of certain criminals, and that all of this was not supported by any evidence. I expected today that colleagues from the party who was the backbone of the previous government have in mind that such reports, which they gave from the VSS, could only stand up, stand still and admire what was done, and it was done precisely because a perfectly normal atmosphere was created where the VSS was given the opportunity to function completely without any executive or legislative authority affecting them. That's what happened, that's how it's gonna be. The procedure that was applied before the proposal was made for Mr Tomic to elect a esteemed colleague, Dragomir Milojevic, as president of the VCC, is that you published an ad on the election of the president in the "Service Messenger" and "Politica". That was May 31, 2013. You've given the opportunity to all of us who have law schools, passed judicial exams, a certain number of years of experience in the judiciary to run for office and be able to be elected for such a high function. Afterwards, a decision was made to educate a panel to elect the president of the courts, and this commission was made up of people who are very professional, who have been undermined by knowledge and experience and who have conducted direct talks with all candidates, who have been able to talk to them completely transparently about everything, to ask certain questions from their professional life, possibly private. Given that everyone who deals with this job in Serbia knows, because it is not a big country, everyone has heard about everything and could then check it out by talking to other committee members and making a certain decision. On the basis of the Commission's election report, the VSS president, held at a session held on 16 July 2013, in the absence of the VSS president, because he was one of the candidates, found that Judge Dragomir Milojevic met all the criteria and criteria for selecting the VCC president. In addition, what is most important is that the general session of the VKS, where there is also a civil department, a criminal department, is unanimous, which for me is a fragrant data but only shows the reputation Mr Milojevic enjoys in that institution, all of them decided that such a person can be the first among the equal, that such a man can be at the head of the VKS as the hats of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. Probably knowing the moral qualities he owns, knowing him personally and knowing his work, his years of experience, it's obvious that it's a man of profession. It's about a man who's been in the judiciary since the first day after he graduated, and he's been known. There was nothing to hide. When you're a judge, there's nothing you can hide. There are parties in the process, given that the colleague was mostly guilty, there are prosecutors who control the whole procedure, who, by their appeals to fellow Milosevic, are asking the Higher Court to plead and what I know is that the vast percentage of the confirmed verdicts that the judge had in his long-standing work in the judiciary. Since we are in Serbia and nothing is strange, in 2009, Mr Dragomir Milojevic was dismissed from the judge's post. Someone would say - shot, precisely because of this kind of biography he had, he wasn't responding to the regime at the time. They were afraid of people like this that you couldn't influence. It's hard when you have a professional who knows, and he's sure of himself, to influence him. It's just impossible. You can go to the weaker ones, the people who are climate-friendly moral integrity or the people you brought in, and they know they've been brought in as judges and they didn't deserve it. That's the way it was. I hope there won't be any. Unfortunately, in 2010, we entered very sadly all of us who are in the judiciary and who live with the judiciary and who will end our profession in the judiciary. Some have made it very difficult to put up with the misunderstanding. Some who have worked for 35 or 37 years, who have been retired, have been resolved without any explanation, but with a name and a story all over town that it's about people who are involved in crime. Thank God and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has gained strength in a completely new atmosphere, which we have relaxed by winning, or the citizens of Serbia have given their voice to us no longer wanting to live in fear, not wanting to live in the dark. They wanted to get between themselves and the independent judiciary. That's what we've been working on. We've given these honorable men the opportunity to be placed, elected and appointed where they deserve to be. I think that fellow Milojevic Dragomir had a complete satisfaction, as well as a total of 1,000 of our colleagues, of which about 700 judges remained prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, to return to their jobs, to justify themselves in front of the family where they had problems and the family had problems because they were not selected, because they were marked as the worst possible people. Some of them didn't even leave the house. Some have retreated. Some were on the verge of suicide. I can say that because I've talked to many of them. I've been in touch with many of them, braved them, burned them and said the time will come, you'll experience a satisfaction that you don't expect, you mustn't fall and let yourself burn by those of you who have decided your fate, rejoice, and that you who are morally and immaculately clean sit at home instead of taking a high forehead to go and walk through the city, go to your place of work. Thank God, now these people are at their jobs. They're at work, and they've got an even bigger elan. Even after 35 years, they're willing to come to work first and leave last. They also got the desire to show young colleagues in every way possible how they work, how they become judges, and how one can suggest one day for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. This is an invitation for all trainees, all graduate lawyers to stay in Serbia, not to be here by their grandmother or uncles, will not be the way it was until 6 May 2012. In fact, it will never be like it was on 6 May, or 20 May 2012. That's what we showed yesterday. We couldn't get into "Arena" from a number of people. There were 30,000 in there and 20,000 out there. Now we're bound to all these people. I feel a really big responsibility that even in this profession that I'm dealing with, and also in all segments of society, economics, we do everything we can to make this a normal country in which young people who have escaped from here begin to return because they realized that they participated in a big fraud on October 5th and were easy for 12 years. There was a promise that could not be realized, and they were easy because someone wanted to be in power, to fight for another day of power, to fill their pockets a little more. The saddest thing I've heard today is from my colleagues from the DS – when we choose the champions of these courts, the cassation, the administration, the misdemeanor, the appeals of Belgrade, the Nickel and the Kragujevac, we talk about some of the ambarians and sheds in Vojvodina, all to cast a shadow into this election, to create a negative atmosphere with Serbian citizens, that no matter how we choose these court presidents, we forget how it was done in the earlier period. That it's the barns that matter. That they are important sheds, and it is not possible to mention how the banks have been robbed and who has taken millions of euros from the Vojvodina Bank or the Vojvodina Development Bank. That's what you'd like to forget. Some cheerleading groups were also mentioned. Those group cheerleaders were yours on October 5th. They burned this congregation, they gave art, they destroyed it. Lucky they didn't have dynamite, but it was your fans back then. They were your people. That was commendable. They were very pleasant and helped you to come to power. A "Yugoscan" was also mentioned. I must refer to it, Mr. Chairman, that the case of the director and owner of the "Yugoscan". Of course, but it takes a while for obsolescence to pass. It is not an outdated case now but has become obsolete in the past ten years when the pillar of power in Serbia was DS, when the minister of justice, or the minister of justice, burned and burned, when judges were called at night and were told how to vote and how to judge... (Chairman: Mr. Nikolic, please. )......................................................................................................... Now to mention "Yugoscan" is really out of respect and our intelligence and intelligence of Serbian citizens because it is clear to everyone that this could not have happened in one night but was happening for ten years, and in those ten years, it is absolutely clear who is responsible. I'm sorry something like that happened. I'm absolutely sorry it's an out-of-date case and it couldn't have been metrically decided on it, but what are you gonna do? That was good for someone. Maybe someone took the mustache off of the procedure being delayed for so many years. Moreover, the case "Ilarion" was mentioned, likely that Mr. Milojevic would have been respected as he participated in the case and that he was to blame for this case being outdated. What I know is that Mr. Milojevic was then in the Supreme Court of Serbia and when the case came, regardless of whether he was in the Supreme Court of Serbia or in the District Court, which is outdated as a senior court, you can find it, and you have no influence, nor can you change anything about it. Over time, certain crimes are out of date. Guilt can only be a first degree court, or judge who worked on the case and not someone who couldn't even get that case before he came to his court. Each item is being seduced by date and by employer, and by this you can see that at the moment it was, I am very sorry, the possibilities and the evidence to find fault. Debt to lawyers, billions and 500. There's no need to grieve so much. I am a lawyer, and I am owed a lot. I know that this country is slowly developing and the wheel is slowly turning economically and economically, as foreign investors come in and some planes are landing some of which are sick, I know that this wheel will slowly turn around. (Chairman: Please. I expect he'll pay me. I've been giving this country another year and I won't ask for payment of what I'm owed. The Verbas was mentioned on the way. (President: Please don't. There's already been a debate about Verbas. Leave the willbas now. I won't do it anymore. I really don't want to, and thank you for the patience you've shown, but I couldn't put all this out and not replicating it in any way, not because of you, because it's clear to you what this is all about, but because of the citizens of Serbia who are here for a year and a few days every time we make a proposal, when we go into the procedure for some law, we listen to the commentation of a certain part of the opposition about what this is supposed to be about and what it was supposed to be about, so when you were on the occasion, what haven't you been doing? Late mind? He's absolutely not smart. Those acts could have been done in 12 years, not to be told here now and that we were absolutely neither responsible nor able to be responsible. Thank God you were formed five years ago, a window of freedom, a window of law. To all of you, Mr. Tomic, who very professionally treats what you do and all of your colleagues in the High Council of the Judiciary, I want all the best and I want you to continue like this. When we elect the presidents of senior courts, the presidents of the basic courts, and it is important that you do it as soon as possible because they are all in some state of function, it is one state unarranged, without full authority, of course, they formally have them, but they simply do not want to enter and do their full capacity until the moment the competition is called, where the commission gives an opinion on them, that the sooner you do so, in order to complete this system called the judiciary, that this pillar of the Republic of Serbia is placed in place and that this parliament never again discusses expertise, knowledge, everything we should not discuss. So we're giving the profession a chance to decide on the profession, to keep the election of the president of the courts only within the Supreme Council of the judiciary, where the people who know it are, and that everyone who is running has to get the opinion of the court and of all the judges where he works, it works, because it's the most measured and they know each other best. Therefore, you will have support. We will vote as SNS in the voting day and support your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24662	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 106th and 107th, but that's a minor problem. A much bigger problem is that some members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia have been injured in the previous exhibition. You know, this is a serious problem when a speaker is not even aware that in his speech he violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 4 - which says that the legal order is unique, Article 5 - which says that political parties are forbidden to exercise power directly, and it is particularly dangerous when a man says - here, in the name of the profession, I am giving up my legal fees for another year. You know, it's not good for someone to speak for a profession like this. Because while some people deprive themselves of that money because they earn otherwise, some lawyers barely survive and make ends meet. It is important to take care of the dignity of the home we address, but it is also important to keep in mind the messages that are being sent. It is important that people who are so much called for the truth, justice and law, above all respect the highest legal act of this state and are called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's especially dangerous when I, as a graduate farm engineer, have to teach graduate lawyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24664	I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. If you'd like, can we say yes on voter day? (No) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24665	Article 107, because the previous speaker, Mr. Chairman, presented a series of notorious lies and you didn't stop him. In fact, I haven't declared myself here on behalf of all the lawyers, and I think there are eight thousand in Serbia, and that's one honorable profession, no matter what some would present it in a different way, and that me and my colleagues may be making money in some other way. I only pleaded for myself. I said that I respect the Republic of Serbia, that I understand its economic situation, that I understand what the dubiosis is about, and where we are, because Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, along with the bandits who then called fans here, was breaking into this assembly, burning, breaking down, and now he's trying to explain to me as a lawyer that I'm breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Chairman, in that sense, you had to act, and you shouldn't have let this happen... (President: Don't rephrase, please.) I understand what you're saying, but when the advertation of the Rules of Procedure goes into replica, then we're on the verge of a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm talking to you and I'm telling you that you violated article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because you did not prevent the previous speaker from saying things that do not stand, that it represents things that I did not mention. I said that the debt that the courts have towards me, that is, the High Council of the Judiciary, since they are obliged to pay and compensation for the damage and everything else, remains a time-out, and I didn't say I didn't want them to pay me. They'll pay me because I've done it very honestly, but I know they need some time now, as well as all the other ministries, because they've been devastated, because they've spent all possible funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24666	Mr. Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24667	Dear Mr. Chairman, Article 104 has now been violated in the harshest way. The Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and Article 107 have been broken again. Imagine someone calling Serbian citizens bandits. I haven't heard that one before. Then keep that vocabulary for a pre-election rally, and say, "Dear robbers, then come to me in Vrbas like this, with dear robbers. Because here, a million and a half people, who came on October 5th, weren't bandits. They came looted, betrayed, miserable, unhappy people, but not bandits. For both of you and for your information, this assembly was set on fire by the Department of State Security, we found sacks of stolen ballots here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24668	I didn't experience it that way, and I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 103 of Item 1 - The National MP has the right to point to a violation of the procedure of the President of the National Assembly. The previous speaker did not speak at all about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he was talking about the violation of a completely different act and the violation of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman, if you do not represent the Constitutional Court, which is a collective body, if you do not have the authority to assess whether or not someone has broken the Constitution, if you do not assess the request for an assessment of constitutionality, I consider the previous two advertisings to be pointless. I'm not going to get into who did what, but it's obvious that someone has come a long way to get from the resistance fist to the middle finger that he offered the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24670	The word has the People's Messenger Svetislav Bulajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24671	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Tomic, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the reform of the judiciary was and certainly remains a very important priority for the Republic of Serbia. The proof of that is also the agenda ahead of us, a list of these high-level court appointments that we need to discuss today. Expressing regret that there is such a lack of interest in the tide of such an important topic, and without any intention of getting into the details of the biography before us, because I am not personally prone to it, especially after a job done in such a high institution from which Mr Tomic comes, as it is generally known, it is not even the LDP's manner, I will keep myself on something else in my short word. So I'm going to try to remind you of some other things, and as a contribution to the constructiveity of this debate today. I will start with the fact that in the reform of the judiciary we are still overly concerned with personal issues, not denying that the appointments and personal solutions presented today are an important part of the judicial reform, and that this is certainly the most prominent proposal for the appointment of the new President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In fact, I want to remind you of something else - the introductory sentences of the Justice Reform Strategy, precisely because it was adopted by this present majority and precisely because I came from the ranks of the opposition. Having the text in front of me, I come to the conclusion that the bringer himself of the Strategy is looking at these things in a different way than what he's doing. One of the first things the strategy points to is, above all, a speech on the stage of entry into the more precise definition of the adopted legal framework and institutional and professional strengthening of capacity in the judicial system, where the most prominence is, in fact, the above-mentioned High Council of the judiciary. So, not individual judges or judges, but just the High Council of the Judiciary, besides the State Council of Prosecutors, the Judicial Academy and the like. What is more important, so that we no longer exhaust ourselves on these misdeeds of who is when and how he has committed and erred in judicial reform, I remind you that the current majority in the strategy has written that it is necessary to ensure the continuity of judicial reform, with the corrections required, but continuity. So it is recognised in all the elements that this is one of the topics that is an absolute priority, regardless of what the schedules of political power are on the agenda, and that this is something that is in any case, what the first sentences of the strategy refer to, absolutely related to the process of European integration. We are the witnesses that we are dealing with this issue precisely with the alignment of chapters 23 and 24 in the EU negotiations process. This is already open and will be opened until the very end, namely the completion of the negotiation process when it comes to EU accession. What I have been discussing with Minister Selakovic for a long time, and there will be opportunities because yet some other proposals are coming to parliament, it is clear that the step and dynamics of this process is something that we are absolutely looking at differently. Priorities need to be set a little wider. The dynamics of this process should guide reform activities. Among them personal issues are certainly important, but they are not the only ones, because it is above all necessary to amend the relevant normative framework and achieve the coherence of the whole, not only legal, but also the judicial system, so that personal solutions can act in the best way. It's something we rarely hold out on, exhausting ourselves in this endless debate about how the reform was done. It is often darkening the mind about what is needed to reform the judicial system when it comes to this personal dimension. We can argue about it, we can also discuss re-election of judges, but I think it's a much more relevant issue now how judges are being tried, and prosecutors are reintegration into the system, because the needs are huge and the problems are very big. We can also argue about how the former President of the Supreme Cassation Court was appointed. What I think is also bad, if we turned that way to deal with personal issues, then why didn't we deal with that high appointment individually, independent of all these other appointments? Because, you will allow, it will also be a person who will be one of the key people for the development of the judicial system and its further reform. These key principles and priorities mention things that everyone is fighting for. I am deeply convinced that people who are proposed to these high functions will also fight for these principles, which are primarily independence in the judiciary, impartiality, something I rarely speak of, which is the quality of justice being conducted, equal legal treatment and access to justice. What we're talking about less is where the mechanisms are and how do we achieve it? Why is it so difficult at the start of the reform to talk about how to raise the level of quality and expertise rather than just discuss and search someone's biography? How to make quality decisions? Why should we work effectively, within reasonable deadlines? Why should we put ourselves proactively and clearly in communication with citizens? Because justice should serve the citizens, first of all. The responsibility of the judicial system is also something that is of paramount importance and criteria for the liability of judicial officials are still not, at least to the general public, fully transparent. I am inclined to believe that the procedure already discussed during the debate has been carried out really transparently and very seriously, but the general public is not aware of it, and that is something that is an important lack of this process. What is also very important to stress, is that there are huge problems that we all have to deal with, because we are all part of that system, and that resolving these problems is of paramount importance for raising the situation in the judiciary and talking about their problems that will no longer be, as my colleague Judita Popovic said, a general place, but where the future of this judiciary is, how to make it more efficient, rational, in which sense strengthen all these prerogative independence, allow the judiciary not to suffer so much political interference and not to deal with it only in the context of what is politics. As for today's agenda, at the very end, we will, of course, deal with this issue and we will decide on it in accordance with our programme principles, supporting the necessity of the need to move forward with the judiciary strategy and to achieve much greater steps in reform than was the case. I hope that the most recent opportunity for this will be when these laws finally arrive before the prey, which will deal with this normative framework, and not only with personal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24672	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24673	Thank you. The President-in-Office, representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Mr Tomic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, is today ahead of us with proposals for a decision on the election of the president of the highest courts in Serbia and the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. To make these decisions, we need to stick to the highest legal act, the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of the judiciary. Provision of Article 144 The Constitution stipulates that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly, in the general session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the competent board of the National Assembly. Finally, the presidents of the highest court cases will be elected as they deserve, with respect for the Constitution and the legislation provided for in the procedure. Since the disastrous 2009 judicial reform, which escalated by re-election of judges, Serbia does not have the president of judges, but performers of office, because the previous Council of Justice's meeting did not carry out the task it was obliged to carry out in the first three months of 2010, more specifically by 31 March 2010. A major damage was done to the judiciary due to a failed judicial reform carried out by the former regime. Serbia has suffered criticism from all relevant international institutions, primarily from the Venice Commission. The first step towards correcting these cardinal mistakes made in the previous period is the election of the president of Serbia's highest courts. The proposed candidates meet, we heard from the representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, the main conditions for choice: expertise, ability, dignity and independence. We have no reason to doubt that. On the Justice Committee, we also heard a large number of praises from the representatives of the Supreme Council at the expense of the candidate for the Supreme Court of Cassation President, Mr Dragomir Milojevic. Those words we heard about the proposed candidate from his colleagues are encouraging both for the profession and for the citizens, for whom the judiciary until just one year ago was wound cancer by the number of pending cases. The reform of the judiciary does not end with the election of the president of the highest courts. On the contrary, a law on a new network of courts is needed, to increase the number of judges and the number of judicial assistants, and all for the sake of citizens, in order to achieve justice within a reasonable time. I express my personal regret, because I am from Novi Sad, which among the proposals is not a proposal for the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, because no candidate has applied for a competition, to round up one continent. I don't know what motives have affected the fact that no judge is applying for a competition, but I don't think it's a good thing that only this appeals court remains in the so-called 'wd' state. Before me, an opposition colleague quoted the book of late Professor Radomer Lukic. I think it's better that those books were read by his colleagues as they were elected by the judges in 2009. Perhaps less would be the result of a catastrophic reform. With the election of the highest court president one step towards overcoming the consequences of judicial reform, the Serbian Progressive Party will give support to decisions on the agenda in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24674	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24675	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, you have so far had the opportunity to hear discussions of MPs from different parliamentary groups, and all these MPs are graduate lawyers. I'm not a graduate lawyer, I'm a graduate electronics engineer, and I want to tell you that we ordinary citizens who are not lawyers see justice in this country. Today, on the agenda, we have a proposal to elect the president of several of the most significant courts in our country. I don't think it's enough to give us the candidate's biographies and a proposal from the High Council of Justice. I think it was good for the candidates to be here today, because what I would definitely ask the candidates is -- what is their work programme? How will the candidate for President of the Supreme Cassation Court improve the work of that court or candidates of the Court of Appeal? Will the rest of this function make judgments faster, to get some new equipment needed for the work of the court, or is it enough, I can't comment on whether your proposals are here, are these people professional and most professional in their field? But being a good judge doesn't mean he's a good manager. When citizens talk about justice in our country, first of all, there is one question – is there corruption in the judiciary, is the judiciary independent or is it under the influence of political parties and executive authorities and are the laws applying judges full of holes, so that certain judgments can be passed one way or the other? I hope you will agree with me when we, who are not lawyers, conclude on how our judiciary works can only be made on the basis of an example of the judgments that the courts have made. It is unacceptable for the Index affair to become obsolete in this country. So, buying and trading diplomas and exams. It's unacceptable for a pedophile case tied to Ilariana to become obsolete. It is not the case that you did not pay the fine for the offence, "Yugoscan" too. For me coming from Negotina last month, the case of car racing in Negotina was out of date. A ten-year-old case with a fatal outcome and dozens injured on these illegal, unlicensed car races. No one was responsible here. How was the family of those deceased women and those injured? When we say whether there is political or not influence, whether it's bribery or corruption, I can't judge it, but I can say that the race director was then a DSS official in Negotin. Now they're saying he's in one of the parties in power. Who's going to explain to that family that they didn't get justice in court. I believe no one. The problem of the judiciary is how the decisions made by the judges are implemented. I shall give you an example of the judgment of the Administrative Court, where the Administrative Court has ruled three times that the head of the municipal administration should return to the post of Chief of Staff in Negotin. Local officials don't respect the administrative court's verdict at all. The problem with our judiciary is that there is no control over whether the verdicts are carried out or not. That is also the case in Zajecar, where the Commercial Court of Appeals holds a verdict in favour of the city of Zaječar, that the TV "Best" has moved out of the premises within 15 days and paid the city 11 million. What's the city government doing? The city government doesn't respect the verdict at all. It's a 36-month alignment and it sets up an ad within eight days so you can take that space if you have a regional frequency for a television radio program. Of course, which can only be reported on television “Best. ” What is the purpose of the Court of Appeal's judgment when it is not implemented in practice? Such haughtiness in Zaječar continues by now the local government headed by the SNS and the SPS abolishing institutions – Tourist organization, means no problem – the Sports Federation of the House of Culture. He's making some new institutions. Is that normal? Will workers be fired in such a way? Are those austerity measures? They're not for me. I have to ask another question, of course, Mr. Tomic doesn't refer to you personally, but the fact is that business courts name bankruptcy judges. In the chemical products industry in Prahovo, it was done by the Chamber of Commerce in Zajecar. The bankruptcy was introduced on 25 October 2011 in the factory IHP Prahovo but in the part of the fertilizer. Meanwhile, the part was privatised by the Elixir group, which paid 4.500,000 euros. Now he's a judge, I'm asking that because of the workers who've been paid 17 back-to-back salaries and two-and-a-half new ones, that's what he's doing. Is that normal? Who controls the work of these bankruptcy judges? We can have the best laws. If these laws don't apply in practice, then we don't have any of those laws. If the verdicts of the court are such that citizens suspect that the judiciary is corrupt, that it is subject to political influence, then we do not have justice in this country. Because every citizen in my life, I think it's normal to have the same rights in court as any official. As long as the citizens think it's not like that, we can say we don't have an independent judiciary. A reform of the judicial system in this country is needed, but it will benefit all citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24676	MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24677	Madam Chairman, Mr. Tomic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we today have a choice of high-level officials in the judiciary ahead of us. Today we choose, among other things, the President of the Court, and we know by the Constitution what the judiciary means, what the trial means, because judicial decisions are made on behalf of the people. For this reason, when we consider here proposals proposed by the competent authority, which is proposed by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in accordance with Article 144 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is the right and duty of Members of Parliament to engage in the debate. To help in some ways not only in the process of elections but also in the process of looking at the overall situation in our judiciary and the overall situation in our society. Just in order for the expertise and honesty of a vast army of judges to make the lives of citizens better. However, at this moment, we are choosing the presidents of these most significant institutions in the judiciary, the question is whether we have provided them as parliamentary authority, legislative authority, and the executive power that is the proposing of a large number of laws, the preconditions to judge by law. Many laws are unclear, many laws are inapplicable, and the obligation of each judge is to judge by law and ensure equality of all before the Constitution and the law. It seems to me that I am the process of proposing and these candidates for the most significant judicial institutions but also certain laws that have come into the parliamentary procedure proposed by the executive authority are in direct contrast. Now I'm asking you here to pay attention. We need to talk today about a candidate for the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. The procedure was conducted in accordance with the law. We got the material. On 16 July 2013, the High Judicial Council established a candidate proposed by the National Assembly. What we have afterwards, that the executive power in the Republic of Serbia absolutely annuls this proposal with its own motion. We are currently in the process, in the legal procedure we have a bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. What's supposed to happen? If the bill proposed by the executive authority, I assume that Mr Selakovic, as minister of justice and state administration, participated, I even assume that this was the ministry and was the main one in proposing this bill, we have a provision. In Article 14(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: - until the date of application of this law, the High Council of the Court of Justice will appoint the officers of the President of the Court in the courts established by this law which have amended the area in which they exercise jurisdiction in relation to the Law on Headquarters and in the areas of the courts and public prosecutors which are now in force. What does that mean? What does that mean translated into Serbian? This means that we will be in a position to elect Mr Dusko Milenkovic as the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade for a few days. How many days? In any case, if the bill proposed by our republican government is said to apply from January 1st but before January 1st, the High Council of the Judiciary will appoint the performers by the start of the application of this law. So what are we playing with Mr. Milenkovic? Now it is only clear to me why neither Mr. Nadrljanski of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad nor the current acting official of Mr. Novica Pekovic, as serious people, serious lawyers, serious judges, were running for election for the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. Well, they won't be elected for a week. So, what's going on? If the Government, on a proposal from the Justice Minister who is a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, proposes a provision that practically spits or undos what the most called institution in Serbia has proposed, means the High Council of the judiciary, where are we going? That's not what I got the answer to. As soon as the law arrived in the procedure, I called Mr Danil Nikolic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice to say – hey, people, you realize that this totally degrades the proposal of the High Council of Justice. To this day, silence. I also asked that question on the Committee on Justice and I said -- hey, people, we have the chairman of our board who is also a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, he was standing, I suppose, behind Milenkovic's proposal, what now? The dots don't work. Mr. Petrovic is the chairman of the Justice Committee. It's an opportunity for him to say that. I am now asking Mr. Tomic, how he felt when he found out, or now that he finds out that if this proposal remains unchanged, the proposed law, which the government has proposed, will practically be for free. I don't think that's the way to play with people, especially people we expect to be at a certain point at the head of very significant judicial institutions. So what authority will Mr. Milenkovic have if he knows he's elected for one half or a big vacation? If he didn't know when the law would set up for him, who passed the contest and everything else, someone else who would be the performer of the function. It's not about human resources, it's not about personal solutions, it's about principle. Because if we want to make a serious state, then we can't play like this. I have so far pointed out that in the past period of work of the National Assembly we have met on several occasions, it may sound harsh but it is so that the right does not know what the left is doing. We have a situation that has entered into force the Code of Criminal Procedure, which all of us who deal with law enforcement are trying to learn in an adequate way, to know how we are going to help the rule of law, and how we are going to enable these presidents of the courts to do their job in an adequate manner. And then we experience that from these benches we're told in 89 cases BIA has issued a warrant for the prosecution of special crime. The whole of Serbia will be silent. There's no word on that, and that's in the stenographic notes. And then we say - he should be the prosecutor's investigation because the prosecutors are independent. How, if anyone gets a warrant. Let's move on. Faster, we had now, ten days ago, an extension of the time limit for public property registration. What do we experience? Not the competent ministry proposes law, the Ministry of Finance instead of the Ministry of Justice, although the ministry of justice should propose the law totally missed jurisdiction and the Law on Ministrys adopted in August by this National Assembly. All right. We are now experiencing again that the Ministry of Justice is proposing a law that is directly contrary to the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Plus, BIA's starting us academia, the Ministry of Education won't take administrative control of it, so what kind of state are we making? We're making a state so that tomorrow these leaders of the judicial institutions and their helpers in the form of an army of judges who need to enforce the law will be in a position to apply the law when it's all wrongly done. That is why, I ask you, Mr. Tomic, wherever you can, too, please, dear fellow Members and fellow Members, that in every place where you can, you point to things that can help the authority of the judiciary, to help the authority of the judiciary grow, and not to let us happen that the First Basic Court in Belgrade will bring a solution that practically requires a budget block to pay off a certain value, and then the Agency will measure whether it will wait 80 days, not by law to execute an execution. I do not believe that 80 days could have happened, and I have concrete information that the executive solution in the Budget of the Republic of Serbia could not have been implemented. That would mean that everything else that was paid out of the budget was in the past tense. It is not true, but it is one example of disrespect for the law where you, Mr. Tomic, and all those we propose, are somehow seen whether there is a possibility or not there is a good will, and there is a obligation to respect the law. Such examples of non-compliance with the law, non-compliance with the law, I say to you that there are many and I would not be in the skin of those people who need to share that justice, and especially those people who need to chair the judicial institutions, if the conduct is carried out by the authorities who give the order when they will be paid out of the budget, and not to respect the court's decision, it does not contribute to the rule of law. That's why I think the alarm bell is ringing, precisely because of the need to respond to chapters 23 and 24 in an adequate manner. It's not just these people we choose, it's the task of the whole state, it's the task of every institution, it's the task of every single one and every place. That's why I'm asking you not to interpret this discussion as an attack on anyone. This is an indication of occurrences, of occurrences to be prevented, because only if we prevent such phenomena from happening, we have a certain perspective. If we don't fight such phenomena, if we try to design it as personal enmity or something, we won't get to the finish line. That's why I have to say here that in the period ahead of us, it's becoming a big task not to pass any more laws that won't apply. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Tomic, and I'm going to ask all of you -- is the law we all talked about here, so on. "Maria's Law", a law that should contribute to the protection against pedophile in a situation to be implemented? Is there a special record of those who did it or not? This is what we got from Mr. Stevovic not to be guided. Has every employer, who hires sellers, or teachers, or anyone who works with minors, requested information from a special record? Most certainly not, and the punishment for a legal person is between 500,000 and 2 million dinars. For a responsible person, at least 50,000 dinars. So, these laws, Mr. Tomic, all these judges need to be implemented. What happens when they're inapplicable? And when here, in the only right place, in the National Assembly, we indicate that laws are unedited, inapplicable, vague, many contradictory, then we don't listen. Just in that sense, I ask you to understand this discussion of me and you understand it as a contribution to the overall improvement of not only the judiciary, but to the situation in the state of Serbia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24678	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24679	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I see that the concussors have given up their discussion. They'll probably end up giving us brilliant conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, but above all, the respected citizens of Serbia, today, once again, we are witnessing why the main party of the ruling coalition avoids public debate on anything and why we are witnessing an unprecedented parliamentary practice, obstruction of parliamentary work by the parliamentary majority. Whatever laws come here in the assembly debate, the proposal, since the appointment, whatever comes to the assembly debate, opens up that mirror of failure, collapse and the sunflower of SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Whatever we're discussing here is so negative for them, that they run away like the devil from the cross, as our people would say. It is simply unseen that no topic can come to the agenda without anyone in this country who hasn't been to Kombank Arena, and there were 20,000, these seven million who haven't been able to say anything good about it. Here, I'll tell you why. Today we are discussing the appointment of some people as judges and then through this debate, I am sorry Madam Chairman that you have not been in the O.R., some MPs are breaking the Constitution and do not understand that the Constitution does not defend the Constitutional Court, but we MPs and citizens who have chosen us. We're all trying to defend the highest legal act. They don't understand Article 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says sovereignty stems from citizens who hold a referendum, a people's initiative and through their freely elected representatives, and that no state body, political organisation, group or individual can claim the sovereignty of citizens, nor establish power beyond the free will of citizens. But that's not what you learn on a farm. However, on the "farm" there is room for Jezdimir Vasiljevic, called "the boss of the jezd". As DS managed and assumed responsibility for the management of this country, he was in prison. When the SNS came, the same people under whose authority "Government of the Jew" robbed Serbian citizens, a congratulatory card arrived in the form of an obsolescence against him, and, as someone said, probably someone got rid of the mustache. (President: Mr. Milivojevic, please return to the agenda topic. ) The topic is the general situation in the judiciary, Madam Chairman, because I can't speak any differently than my predecessors have said, and you haven't heard it. I can't speak any differently than Mr. Nikolic said. I have to speak in this context and respond to some qualifications and some malicious accusations against the DS account. We better not open the candidates' names, because what can I say about Dragomir Milojevic? You almost know everything about him. The re-election and general choice of judges failed, as he tried against Ilarion in an outdated procedure, but also tried to justify Mr. Cvian's absence. Did he change into a peanut salesman yesterday when he entered the Arena, or did you not call him? (Dragan Todorovic, from town: Is that the topic? See, that's the theme. How is this procedure outdated and how do you choose this man? (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: You couldn't wait for someone to throw you to see that you could talk.) I don't want to answer. I'm just gonna tell you something. It's past the time of model smiles and all manner of haughtiness and the sudden avoidance of encounters with weakness. The time has come for you to go from the quasi of the salon's unintelligence and cynical calmness, the day after the fifth birthday, to see for yourself. I'm here to open your eyes. I'm eye drops, anti-shock therapy. Now open your eyes well, and my ears too. Do you know how many proceedings were tried by Mr. Milojevic and how the proceedings went out of date? By doing it during the DS government? Well, until the trial, the only way to get old is to keep an item in a drawer, or in an inside pocket, along with an envelope. But if he doesn't keep the item in the drawer, then that object sees the light of day. It's a total mess in the judiciary. You're attacking judicial reform. Then why don't you call off the Court of Appeal? What's the matter with the suspension of the Cassation Court? Why don't you put it all back in the past, if that wasn't right? Why do we even have a debate today about the judges of the Court of Cassation, the Supreme Court? It's all good to return, the Court of Justice, the District Court, and please, there's no Appellate, no Casation, nothing wrong with this. In fact, it's good and you keep going where it's good, but it's no good what you've done, it's no good that you're several hundred judges, besides visiting the Arena, back to work with all the SNS membership cards and then they judge each other and judge each other. One judge has a SNS membership card and the other is a member of the SNS, and then he sues the state of the Republic of Serbia for failing to pass the election, and he's being tried by a member of the SNS and what does he give him? It's not nice for him to pay the SNS membership fee without the SNS giving him anything. It is one mutual job, except it gets much more from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because it is made up of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's not the only procedure that's out of date, we've been discussing your and even violence against women today. One prosecutor missed some deadlines, so one girl's killers will only serve ten years in prison, as he will welcome amnesty. It's probably none of your business or your pain, I can see that at least it's not funny anymore. Now that the new Moses of the Great Serbia, yesterday in the Arena, has brought down new tables of the new covenant, I imagine it is easier for you to understand the depth of the disaster in the Serbian judiciary that you have caused. Do you know that jurors don't receive salaries? Do you know that the trial in Serbia is pending because lawyers defending the necessary defence do not receive their fees, that the trials are not being held, because judges are not coming because they are owed a billion and a half? The "Stars" will somehow pay back, as the first Deputy Prime Minister cheers for the "Star" but not for the independent judiciary. There's no money. What can I tell you about the famous affairs you have caused over the past year and a half, from the threat to the son of Nate Mesarevic in one procedure. Would you like me to read that for you? Let me read to you what you said when the Democratic Party filed a criminal report? The first Deputy Prime Minister said it was not the party's job, that he was filing criminal charges and that he trusted Mr. Cvian. Does he still trust him? Do you trust him? He's not here amongst you. What happened to the alleged pressures, as you said, on Mr. Sasha Dragin to accuse those who didn't blame himself of providing himself with the status of a man who could get out of custody? What happened to the Mayor of the Kings? How you enjoyed Mr Simovic's fate. There's no one who hasn't worked out how it's possible for a man like that to rob the unhappy citizens of the Kings. Now that the Faculty of Civil Engineering has estimated that these people have not paid more than less, and when they're all at their homes, no one to go out and say, excuse the members of the Democratic Party for being satanicized, we needed it for the ratings. We wanted it because of the ratings, because we make the ratings by satanicizing you and dragging you through the mud and destroying the institutions. We're making the ratings by going out, so we're saying that we stole the MP's card because we need it to vote, and then you admit it with the evidence, then you're destroying parliament by making up that someone showed a middle finger. That's how the system's institutions are destroyed. The independent judiciary is the pillar of a democratically organized society. Parliament is the pillar of a democratic society. When you break his leg and Parliament and the institution of parliament, and with an independent judiciary, you break the legs of which this country's future should run. I know there's photo montage, it's being taught on the farm, feel free to show it high. (President: Mr Milivojevic, it is my duty, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to warn you that you should speak on the subject. ) There they are waving photo montages, but let's get back to a few important things from this debate. Why aren't there any court records? Now you've moved the deadline to September 1st, 2014. Is this a vow to be in Europe in 2020, but according to our rules, by our standards of our ability and yours? No country in Europe has lost its court records, except for Serbia. What about the prosecution investigation? How's she doing? What about this other candidate, Jelena Ivanovic, who is proposed as President of the Administrative Court? What was the vote at the general session of the Administrative Court, when an opinion was given on the candidates for the post? The candidates next to her were Steve Djuranovic, Sladjana Bojovic, Jadranka Injac. Of the 22 Judges of the Administrative Court for Mr. Djuranovic, 16 gave support and a positive opinion, for Mrs. Bojovic ten, for Mrs. Injac six, and for that Jelena Jovanovic only four. More judges can vote to let you know, that's why it's a number. This is very important, because we know that Nata Mesarovic was allegedly formally replaced, because there was no opinion of the general session of the VKS for her. No response from legal experts, no new claims. It's just a claim of cadiya suing you, cadiya judging you. That's the answer to our claims. There's not a single legal act that you're repealing judicial reform. You're not terminating any of these court cases that we've been struggling to establish. I see you find it funny. You probably find it funny that an innocent girl's killer is available for 10 years, but it's your mirror. It may be funny to you that Master Horse is on "The Farm," not in prison. It has its own price, of course. It hurts Serbian citizens, you know. I know you take care of those 20,000 that were in the Arena, and I have to take care of them, but even those seven million that weren't and don't want to be in Arena at the pre-election rally, as far as I can see today, it wasn't even a landing or a job fair anymore. Today, I hear, it was a pre-election rally. In the end, I have a few more things to say. You have not been chosen, nor have you come to rule the state of affairs, but to change the situation for the better. Unfortunately, Serbia has been returning forward for a year. We're slowly entering the dictatorship, and it's not crawling and crawling, it's galloping. That's not what I'm saying. That's what a member of the SNS presidency says, justifiably absent, Mr. Cvian. He says that... (President: Mr. Milivojevic, I have warned you twice that you are talking about the subject of the agenda. You know what's next. Therefore, third warning. So, I'll be tolerated, but please talk about the agenda. ) I thank you for your tolerance. Can I speak of the release of three thousand convicts under the Law of Amnesty and the effect that we have no effect on how many of these people, I ask you, were involved in committing crimes? If I can't, then I'll interrupt my exposure, because that's probably not the point when it comes to justice. I must ask, as a citizen, as a MP, why do we not apply these laws here? Why don't these people, who we choose this way, enforce the laws we make? Why did we pass Mary’s law when it was not applied? Why hasn't anyone run in the New Sad for the President of the Court of Appeal? Is it possible there aren't any lawyers in Novi Sad? Did you know that no one signed up for the President of the Court of Appeal? A man from Belgrade travels to Novi Sad every day, 100km, to serve as President of the Court of Appeal. In the end, since I see that you have been able to answer me, I must tell you, I repeat, Serbia under your authority is falling forward. There is no topic that you have opened in this House without opening Pandora's box of abuses, irregularities and bad things that are happening. Don't expect support for this kind of thing from DS. If you want to change things for the better, we're here to support you. We supported all the laws that were European laws. We are waiting for all together, not you, but all of us together, the Republic of Serbia, to open very unpleasant chapters when it comes to EU accession. It's gonna be hard to give some answers with people like this you choose. It'll be hard to meet the criteria. We're here to help you and make suggestions on how to do better. Also, we are here, not to run away from responsibility, but we are here to share with you responsibility for everything that is painful and difficult for you to do and to say that you cannot, to support you, if it is for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We will never support what damages the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24680	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that, Madam Chairman, you will be tactful enough towards me, so that you will not remind me when I jump out of the agenda theme, as the previous speaker did constantly. We don't need support, we don't need support from those guys, and we didn't ask for it. We're looking for and we're getting the support of our society. That's what we get, and that's what we fight for. I will inform you of one thing and only in that one sentence will I comment – Mr Simovic, the former mayor of the Kingdom is not a member of the DS, but LDP, without the desire to challenge anyone in a replica and I will not comment now, in the past, or in the future any matter concerning either the prosecution or the judiciary or anything, because I have no right to do so. If we want to build a modern society, we'll throw something like that out of this room. The Serbian Progressive Party was created in dissatisfaction and a desire for change, but the SNS came up with this support because of the courageous policy and solutions and honesty we faced Serbian citizens. Hate when it enters the head, when it enters into the eyes, into the soul, regrets the opportunities and the boasts of the past clouded reason, so everything is seen black and nothing, so it is insulted, the only measure is the citizens of Serbia, the only measure is the elections, and these elections, wherever the SNS has appeared in the past year and a half, they have spoken – over 40, over 50% and so it will be not because of your wishes and words, so it will be because of the brave political decisions and things that we have launched in the reforms of our society. There were more people in Arena and around Arena than you'll have a voter in the future if you continue with hate policy at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24682	Thank you. (Dear Nikolic, from town: Replica. I'm mentioned personally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24683	You have not followed better than you have not followed what Mr Milivojevic said, but it is fortunate that the citizens of Serbia have followed and were able to hear and know the wish and regret for past times when the phone called determines who will be the president of the court, who will judge in certain cases when it is necessary to order an acquittal. It was known who had to be the prosecutor, that certain prosecutors had to withdraw the complaint or not to file it at all. I just wanted to explain to the esteemed Mr. Milivojevic what antiquity is. The limitation of the crime exists when, during a certain period, the state authorities, i.e. the prosecution, do not initiate the procedure and that is relative obsolescence. It's a shorter volume than an absolute obsolescence that occurs when it takes twice the time it takes for relative obsolescence. For crimes for which a sentence of up to five years is intended, absolute obsolescence is 10 years. Given that there has been a change in certain parts of the Criminal Code in relation to punishment, it is absolutely clear that 10 years of DS authorities are in one way or another, and that they were then able to speed up these proceedings, that people are advertised guilty or released, depending on whether or not they exist, but it was obvious that it was appropriate for someone to last 10 years. This is just the final scene where the court can determine that there is absolute obsolescence and there is no way to do anything else. That is also said the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which Mr Milivojevic is invited to, I don't know why, humiliating this Constitution and saying that I am violating some members of the Constitution, while at the same time referring to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have created an atmosphere in Serbia, where the High Council of the judiciary is now free, without anyone's influence calling for a threat, blackmail, can decide who will be proposed to this high home for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and all other courts. We have created such an atmosphere and we will maintain it, unfortunately you from opposition parties, which you will never come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24684	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24685	Thank you. I'd like you to give me a graduate livestock engineer, you high-shrewd people, when it comes to legal science, to answer – did 650 judges who had a SNS membership card just before May elections return to the SNS membership cards after they massed in front of TV cameras? They should have stepped out of the SNS if they wanted to be judges. I haven't been informed of that act, I've even seen some in the Arena. Legally, it is the right of judges to attend political meetings, if they want to, but it is bad for them to have membership cards. We have a party judiciary here. When you talk about regrets about past times and the phone calls of judges and the threat of judges, I am absolutely sure and confident that you are talking about Mr. Cvian, who showed documents of phone conversations, threatened Judge Mesarovic, when he defended the person accused of smuggling cocaine. It was not done three years ago when Snezana Malovic was the minister of justice. It was done less than a year ago when Mr Selakovic was and remained a minister of justice. I am absolutely convinced that when you talk about raising the phone and accepting the decisions of the Constitutional Court judges that you also think that you have welcomed the Constitutional Court's decision to remove some persons from custody, and that the Constitutional Court also says that some persons have been held in custody longer than they should have. I didn't notice you didn't comment on those decisions. One month you've been commenting on such decisions as SNS, so you two have archaic looks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24686	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24687	As we return again in time, I would like to be told here what is the address from Europe, from anywhere in the world commending the judicial reform carried out by Snezana Malovic. What address in this world did she say – yes, it is good that theirs were removed and ours were brought? I'd like someone in this room to tell me - who is this judge, who was the prosecutor who worked until May 2012 without a job in the judiciary? Is the SNS and the Minister of Justice, who is very responsible and very good at doing his job, even though you close your eyes and ears to those praises, but your mouth doesn't... Who's out of a job? Who's moving? Where's Mr. Radosavljevic from? Our countryman. Did we put some people on a political order or did we accept them doing their job responsibly and legally? Aren't these people you brought in and that they're suing and they're not going to be the first to raise their voice and say, "Yes, here's the dictatorship, this is where the investigations are ordered?" Is there any of that? There isn't. For that, let's talk about the essence, let's commend the judicial reform. (President: Time. ) Let us commend the reform of the judiciary that is here in this home adopted and action plan. The reform that was carried out a few years ago was the wrong way. He can't reform over his knee. You can't reform by leaving some people out of work and bringing in their own people who are still doing their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24688	Time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24689	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, I have your party note and party tabloids, several pieces and on all these party tabloids and messengers you are announcing the shift of Miljko Radisavljevic. All of it. Here, there's your party tabloids. (Zoran Babic, from place: Show me.) Here, I showed you now and I'll show you again. (Zoran Babiæ, from place: Read it. I don't advertise party tabloids. It's yours. So, I'd like to ask you a question and you'd like to answer me - why doesn't it suit you now when your member of the presidency, Mr. Cvian, says that Mr. Borislav Novakovic, past every law in custody? That's not what I'm saying. That's what Mr. Cvian says. Why isn't he answering now? Why can't he get into the Arena? That's what your Bureau member says. He says he doesn't see the elements of the crime as a lawyer, and you've advertised him as an excellent and best lawyer, the best expert you've got, the future minister of justice. I'll end up here in a circle of replicas, because you don't have an answer to this question. You must quote the Rules of Procedure on this question. I will be happy to show you, when the session of the Assembly ends, where Miljka Radisavljevic is announced in series, by "Informer" via "Kurira". In all these tabloids, you announced it for a month, when the campaign was going on, and then you went on the phone with the police, and you replaced the director of the police and you chose the director of the BIA, and we're just gonna talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24690	National MP Zoran Babic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24691	This is the naked policy that makes the ratings fall into the sunflower. Instead of the Rules of Procedure and the laws, they're waving at newspapers that don't seem to be today either.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24692	Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure are you advertising?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24693	Member of the 107th Madam Chairman. I really ask that you do not demean the reputation and dignity of this high house by tolerate people to be insulted and to be false. I would really like to open a "Sport whether a bag" so that the party votes are not advertised, and we know what the campaign was until May 2012, where people in Serbia have been satanized, where we have been represented for the past five years as the worst people in the world. Let's read once what it says, not to wave, not to tell the truth, not to throw the stone, and the consequences that no one has, and then when it's proved to be false, it's chosen only to be sharper and bigger stone, rather than to sanction those who do such things. Please, because of the reputation of Parliament, stick to the Rules of Procedure and prevent such things in the future, no matter where they come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24694	Thank you. I really don't know what's in the paper or what's going on, so I'm really sorry. I can't really know and warn you about everything you've done. National MP Dragan Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24695	Madam Chairman, I really need to intervene, because the discussion has gone in a completely different direction than what is the topic of this session's agenda. Article 106. "The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted." You and your predecessor allowed Mr Milivojevic to talk about everything, just not about what's on the agenda today in the Assembly, about everything else, just not about it, with one single goal -- to bring down this high house, to bring Serbian citizens into error and confusion that we are doing some dirty work here and that, despite the law of a certain procedure, we have come to the names of people who are very honorable, high moral, trained, expert in performing judicial functions, and now also proposed for the presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the trade court, the criminal court, the appeals courts. We're talking about chickens here. We're talking about Mrs. Mesarevic and we're talking about her son who's being threatened. If threats are addressed, it is resolved in the process, in the process, the prosecutor is informed, but it was then necessary that there were alleged threats to Mrs. Mesarevic's son that she would be represented as someone who was poor, as someone who was damaged, and was actually elected President of the Supreme Cassation Court without the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. You know why? Because there was no sitting then, nor could there be, because no Supreme Court judge was elected. So, without that condition, of course, the Constitutional Court of Serbia has gained strength and said what needs to be said, and I think that in that sense you are obliged to continue to keep an eye on what is the topic of the agenda to allow all of us, especially the citizens of Serbia not to suffer and listen to this kind of suffering.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24696	Thank you. As you noticed, as Mr Milivojevic spoke of the agenda point, I warned him three times and asked him to return to the topic. I am really trying to understand all the MPs and to allow them to speak their political views. Please understand me sometimes, but I will listen to Mr. Nikolic in one thing, and we will return to the agenda. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this jam won't bother me so much. Today when we elect the presidents of the courts, when we choose certain judges who are first elected to office, from previous speeches, especially the man who humiliated this parliament by pointing a middle finger, we could hear everything and everything. For the sake of the citizens, I have to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24698	Mr. Risticevic, you're talking about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24699	I'm talking. For the sake of the citizens, I must say that we have not chosen the President of the Supreme Cassation Court against the constitution yet. So, in this House, we have been able to, with respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, with disdain on the other hand, a general disdain, we have to resolve the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who was elected against the constitution and it was assessed by the Constitutional Court, who elected the former power. I think it takes a lot of courage for someone to come out today and say that we are politically motivated to elect some judges and we are politically pressuring the judiciary. As far as I know, yet the Constitutional Court has made no decision that we have chosen a judge against the constitution and against the law. MPs should defend the Constitution, but the final assessment of constitutionality is still given by the Constitutional Court. Such a decision that we have chosen, and we have chosen some judges and some presidents, we have not yet received, the Constitutional Court's assessment that in this House's meeting, we have violated the Constitution and made an unconstitutional choice of any judge. I also have to say that the judiciary we found was in the meantime completed. So, I think that same Constitutional Court has assessed that all unselected judges during the term of office of the former Assembly and the former majority will be returned to work. It wasn't our decision. It wasn't this Parliament's decision. It was the Constitutional Court's decision, which I repeat, was also elected during the former government. I also don't know, and here is a representative of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, whether the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and the former elected first president, then elected judges, like if he chose the president of parliament, so he would make a choice of MPs. Thus, a former President of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected and issues of the legality of the decisions made by the court can now be opened, since the election of the Supreme Cassation Court president was unconstitutional. Is the son of the new President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the one most likely to be elected, elected Judge of the High Court at once? This is a question for a representative of the High Council of the Judiciary – does the newly proposed candidate for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court have a son to push for a judge of the High Court, and as representative of the High Council, will the judiciary dispute other judges the right to be elected for mutual relatives? So, we had this during our former term, that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court of the High Council of the Court disputed the choice of judges because they were in relation to relatives, or because they were also related to other judges, and that was not the case for the son of the Supreme Court President. I think that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24700	Mr. Risticevic, get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24701	And how I'm in the dark. We choose the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and don't choose him the way the former was elected. If that's not the subject, then I don't know what's on the agenda? As far as I'm concerned, one of the points is the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, where it's against us to choose a gentleman politically motivated, that no rules apply to us, etc. I also ask the President of the High Council of the Judiciary – is any of these proposed judges dead? That's what I'm serious about, because the former assembly's meeting on a proposal from the High Council of Justice has been chosen by a dead judge. Today I'm talking about morale and the honesty of this election, how they as a party have barely managed to establish that independent judiciary, and that's a little strange to me, that's where they respected everything and everything, and they chose in the former meeting of a dead judge. So today I'm talking about morale and the honesty of that election, as they said they were barely able to establish that independent judiciary, and that's a little weird, that's where they respected all sorts of things and chose a dead judge in the former council. That is why my question is justified – is any of these candidates accidentally dead? I expect a representative of the High Council of the judiciary to give me a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24702	Please, Mr. Risticevic, third warning. Don't ask questions like that. I have to take care of the dignity of this house, and now you're asking if any of the candidates who are proposed are dead. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24703	Ma'am, I'm afraid you don't understand me. I said that in the last assembly, such a man was chosen. As an MP, I will not be in a position to accidentally make the mistake they made during the rule of the former regime. So, the fact is that they chose a dead judge in the last session, and then you're the only one who doesn't know that. I stand for an independent judiciary. I'm also in favour of an independent prosecutor's office. It exists today. That is my responsibility, that the judiciary and the prosecution are independent of the current executive government, but I fear the former is not, both in the manner of the election and in the way of 850 eliminated judges. I'm afraid there was a party judiciary in the former council. Today, citizens need to know that the processes are slow because the choice of judges last time, not this time, was a party choice and because they mainly judge their party colleagues. Hence the inadequate indictments and hence the court proceedings in which people are released for the "Satellite" affair for the "Aerodrom" affair, etc. Of course, a person who slaps an old man in the Republic Square, and she gets released. So much for this independent judiciary and they honor us today that we choose our own judiciary and none of the judges they choose are resolved in the way they did it. What I'm trying to say is that today we're choosing the judges of the Court of Justice. Because of the Court of Commerce, and the Court of Commerce is chosen as the tycoons wanted, all privatisations and grabbings were done with the full support of the former judiciary. I hope this time we don't make a mistake made by the former regime by choosing the Judges of Trade, or later the Court of Commerce, and that we won't choose judges who will lead the proceedings as it suits the rich, as it suits those who took everything, so that the widest circle of people will impoverish and lose everything. This is a lawsuit filed in Strasbourg for the way the Court of Commerce works whose judges we choose today. Do not make a mistake and choose a judge who will make such a mistake after only two months, which is why the Serbian state will be sued. This sugarshop, "Kovavica", was bought by the former financial director of the party that recently ruled. He was best man to their party president. Sugar was sold for three euros, where minority shareholders to the Court of Commerce, whose judges we are choosing today, submitted a request for a break-up of privatisation and a new reformed judge elected, replaced the old one, and reached a verdict at the expense of the shareholders, resulting in a 20m-euro lawsuit in Strasbourg. The whole sugar shop was sold for three euros. The experts appointed by the court found it true, but the court did not recognise the findings of the expert and ruled in favour of the former regime's financial director. Here, shareholders are minority, damaged by three million euros, and the state is able to pay minority shareholders more than 20m euros because of such judgments from the Trade Court, now the Court of Commerce, this state can pay minority shareholders, because the investment and social programme, everything it says in this lawsuit, is not respected. But, behold, the Trade Court ruled in that case, but also in other cases, always in favour of tycoons that, in the case of godfathers, were in party relations with the former regime. I think that no matter who is elected, and I want to congratulate all those who are chosen, and to recommend that they work neither on their grandmother nor on their uncles, I want to say that whoever was chosen, that our people who are in poverty, poverty, who is naked, barefoot, who lives very poorly, our people more than bread wants justice. Our people want this country's court finally to punish the guilty for the general robbery of Serbia's state and citizens and so I urge the judges to try to find justice in their verdicts and try to bring back to this country and its citizens everything that was robbed during the former government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24704	Mr. Veselinović, you want a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24705	The replica refers to Mr Babic's previous exposure. (President: Mr. Veselinovic here did not get the right to reply. You have the right to replicate Mr. Risticevic. All right. That's fine. First of all, the chairman, I think you've acted on the last speaker with too much understanding. I believe that his entire discussion was aimed at talking about what he said to the previous regime with the desire to accuse the previous regime of such a situation in the judiciary. The DS has not been in power for almost a year and a half, but unfortunately citizens are not happier about it. The situation in the judiciary is chaotic. They can't exercise their elemental rights. There's not a word about law enforcement. The judges are returned, they are now being paid a considerable fee. I just said, there were probably judges among them who were damaged. Most importantly, nothing has been done to change the situation in the Serbian judiciary for the better. The situation is getting worse every day, the judges are buried in cases, objects become obsolete, people in a situation where they don't trust the rule of law anymore. The fact that you're making meetings at the Kombank Arena and that you think that you're going to help people...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24706	Time, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24707	You won't help them until they have the money in their pocket to buy bread until they can heal, until they can go to court for justice and until then you won't have satisfied citizens as long as the DS gets votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-22-0.u24708	Thank you. Given that it's now 6:00 p.m., and we haven't extended our work since 6:00 p.m., we're finishing work for today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
