ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28445	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28446	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would have questions for the government, primarily for the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. I'd like to remind us all that yesterday was November 25th - International Day Against Violence Against Women and that this date begins in fact 16 days of activists against violence against women. What is worrying about me, and apparently according to colleagues who leave the hall this is not a problem for Serbia, but for me personally, it is exactly the role of the state to protect every life and guarantee the safety of every citizen, so I ask, since yesterday there was different data that 38, 40, 45 women lost their lives in this year until November 20th, which already creates enough reason for me to ask the question – how much did a woman really lose her life in Serbia by November 2013? But what is devastating for this country is that in 2010, 26 women lost their lives, in 2011 – 29, in 2012 – 32. So we have a constant increase in the number of women who have lost their lives in violence. Despite all strategies, laws, action plans, this number is growing. Therefore, I ask all the ministries responsible for combating violence against women, primarily the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice – what will they do to ensure that this number does not increase in the following year? What are the steps and additional measures that the government will suggest that the number of victims does not grow? And besides, I'd like to ask you a few more questions. We have a Family Law that came into force in 2005, which provides for protection measures in its 198th article. How many of these measures of protection have been said? In particular, when it comes to protection against domestic violence, how many orders have been issued to move out of a family home or house regardless of property rights? How many prohibitions are being issued regarding approaching a family member at a certain distance? How many restrictions on access to space around the place of residence or the place of work of a family member are being made? How many restrictions on further harassing a family member? I would really like to get this data from the day of entry into force of this law to this day. What I'm also interested in -- when the victim asks to express some of the measures mentioned, how procedurally does it last? Because according to me, this procedure lasts from one month to the next. I'm interested - how natural is it when a victim who suffers violence? It's usually a woman in the family, and it's usually children, and it's supposed to wait a month for someone to say something that someone should leave the household. I don't know how long we'll suffer for the victim to be the one to move out and run like she did the greatest evil. Besides, I'm asking, what's going on, and I know what a legal possibility is, when that someone who gets the distance from the apartment or the house doesn't do it? Why do we allow ourselves to happen as a state? Why doesn't this state take action to make it happen by some kind of automation? Why must the victim make a request again that the same bully who disobeyed the measure to leave the house or the home be forced to do so? I hope, as I asked, that I will receive answers on the measures put forward, and I also believe that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as a security carrier in co-operation with those ministries is considering what additional steps should be taken so that the number of victims does not grow from year to year, because, I remind you, the role of the state is to protect every life and guarantee the safety of every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28447	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28448	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to raise a question, that is to say, to the President of the Assembly, that is, as chairman of the Parliament, which is what we, as MPs, should do more to get the ministers to answer the questions we ask on Tuesdays and Thursdays? Should we beg them, kneel? Tell me, what mechanism do we have to do to finally get answers to the questions we're asking here? For four months now, the LDP has been asking the Ministry, earlier, economy and finance, now the Ministry of Economy – what is happening with the selection of the directors of public enterprises? Why aren't all competitions scheduled for the directors of public enterprises appointed by the RS government and what about those competitions that have already been called? Minister Radulovic does not have time to answer that question, but therefore has time to say in his public appearances that politicians are responsible for not choosing the director of public enterprises and thus absolutely puts all of us who are involved in politics in the same basket. We're not all the same. If some politicians don't allow it, do they have a name and a last name? What kind of politicians are they? Are those politicians sitting in government? Are these politicians sitting in the offices of the director of public enterprises? Are these politicians sitting in the seats of the directors of public enterprises, or are these politicians sitting in high positions in their parties, and these parties being parties of the ruling coalition? It is simply impossible for a government official to give answers to journalists, and for us, MPs, there is no time to answer these questions. Another question that we have been asking for three or four months now – which public enterprises, which are monopolies, are used or advertised? This is prohibited under the Law on Public Enterprises if there is no decision by the Serbian government. On Sunday, we attended, according to the ruling coalition, the historic day, the start of work on the South Stream. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I would just like to remind myself that the LDP has since been against the Energy Agreement with the Russian Federation, because we think it is contrary to Serbia's interests. As a political party on the first day of pre-election silence in 2008, we organised demonstrations in front of the Serbian government when the technical government, made up of DSS and DS, adopted the Regulation on how to implement the agreement. We also voted against the Energy Agreement in the Serbian Parliament. What is happening in recent days regarding the South Stream is for the LDP mildly said shame for the state of Serbia, to determine which of our state officials can, and who cannot attend the opening, whether one minister can, and the other cannot, etc. Then we come to a simple question, in this case, of the Minister of Energy – which minister in the Serbian government is working against the interest of the Republic of Serbia? We as the National Assembly must get that answer, because these ministers took the oath here before us, in the Serbian Parliament. A year and a half ago, in your confidence, when I tell your people I mean members of the ruling coalition, we got the perfect government. After a year, we had to reconstruct this perfect government, and two days ago we learn that a minister works in contrast to the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Who is this minister? Does he have a name and name? If what the Energy Minister says is true, to see in diplomatic mail his statements that are contrary to the Serbian government's policy, the minister must be resolved. Not to resign, but the Serbian Parliament must resolve it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28449	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28450	Thank you. Today I will ask a question concerning the position of Serbs in the region, Serbs living outside Serbia and the situation of refugees, for one simple reason why this issue has not been discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the past year and a half, and because, unfortunately, neither the President of the Republic of Serbia nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned about the issue. The reason for this question is the fact that the position of Serbs in the region, where nearly two million Serbs live, could be said to be worse than ever. The latest report before the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia and Serbs in the region was also witnessed by the Progressive Club, in the light of a report for the previous period, which said: "The establishment of a new government, in which SNS became the backbone, has led to a further decline in state policy. The alleged austerity policy has led to the abolition of the ministry and the establishment of a less influential office for co-operation with the diaspora and the Serb people in the region. Small party and shameful personal interests of the SNS leadership have affected politics towards the Serbian people in Montenegro, which has been humiliated and abandoned to an extent unseen from the establishment of democracy in Serbia. “ In the end, a general assessment is given, highlighted, and said: “In 2012 and 2013, this policy is significantly worsened compared to Serbs outside Serbia. "This book is divided into members of the Committee on Serbs in the region and is called the "black book", because they said the position of the Serbian people is worse than it was in the previous period, and in particular they blame the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia. The state of the Republic of Serbia is according to Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is required to protect the interests of Serbs outside Serbia, so it is said that the Republic of Serbia is developing and promoting Serbia's relations with Serbs living abroad, or with the country of origin. Under the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region, the president of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to organise a Council for Serbs outside Serbia every three months. Only two meetings of such a kind have been held so far, and in these meetings it has hardly been discussed about the situation of Serbs outside Serbia in an adequate manner. That this also shows the fact that the president of the Republic of Serbia has not received families of the missing from the Republic of Croatia in his term so far. The Suza Association, which brings together families missing in the Republic of Croatia, is concerned about finding and searching for more than 1,500 missing in Croatia. According to official data from the Republic of Croatia, 800 are such. What is particularly worrying is that 270 unexhumed tombs are currently known and are not eshumated for what reasons, as well as 380 eshumated Serb bodies from Croatia that have been unidentified and have been standing for several years. I ask the President of the Republic of Serbia – why has he not received families of the missing from Croatia so far? To be a worse situation, and I would say more unusual, President Josipovic has received so far families of the missing from Croatia and today these families of the missing in Zagreb were scheduled to meet with the president of Croatia at 2 p.m., and the president of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted them. On the other hand, I ask what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do at the implementation of the Refugee Housing Management Programme in Serbia and about the engagement of funds collected at a donor conference held two years ago in Sarajevo? Today, the issue in Serbia is only addressed by the Commissioner for Refugees, and the Serbian government is not concerned about it. The second issue concerns violence in the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia what will they do about peer violence in the Russian Christur and threats and attacks against children happening at the Russian Christur at the local school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28451	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28452	Mr. Chairman, my question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, and it says – when will the work of the National Food Quality Laboratory begin? Since 2003, the EU and our state have invested around 15m euros to build and equip the National Food Control Laboratory, which has not yet worked. We find out off the record that during the process of accreditation there is a National Laboratory, but we seem to be running out of time because we've had a series of food-quality affairs these years, of which the aflatoxin affair in milk last year has done a lot of damage to our economy. We also find informally that of the 12m euros that the EU has allocated to the equipment and equipment of the food quality control laboratory, it is currently a delay in the supply of equipment precisely because we on our part did not take all the steps we needed to take to start the National Food Quality Check Laboratory with our work. Of course, it is a very important issue for food safety, for the protection of the health of the population, for our competition, what is the quality of the food that we produce, which we buy, and which our population is fed, because competition in the environment was for its own sake, so it was one imaginary affair in Croatia and Slovenia in 2007, about salmonella in the "manchello", which did not exist. This is why my question is very specific – what will the Ministry of Agriculture do for its part to do more to check the quality of food not to engage expensive private laboratories, because laboratories, first of all, the Netherlands and Germany, and when will the National Food Quality Check Laboratory start with their work?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28453	Since none of the presidents, or authorized... Sorry, you weren't in the system. Here you go. + Milan Lapčević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28454	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question today will be addressed to the Ministry of Energy and to the Director of the Public Enterprise "Electro-priority of Serbia". It refers to an announced increase in electricity prices for the economy as of 1 January 2014, i.e. uneven prices, which will be paid by businesses in different parts of Serbia. According to the decision, i.e. the regulation issued by the Energy Agency, different electricity prices will be in different parts of Serbia, as the price of electricity will include the so-called network, i.e. the costs of maintaining the network in certain parts of the consumer area throughout Serbia. In this sense, the analoguely higher costs of maintaining the network in mountain-mounted areas that are mostly dominated by the south and west of Serbia will be the price of electricity for legal persons, for small entrepreneurs, for businessmen to be up to 50% higher than the price of electricity for the Vojvodina or Belgrade area. In yesterday's show on B92, the director of Elektroprivreda Serbia, Aleksandar Obradovic said he repeatedly suggested that he propose to the Management Board, to make a special decision that would equalise electricity prices across Serbia at the same level, however, he also said the decision did not go through and that it was hitched by the Energy Ministry. I ask the question of the Minister of Energy – why are such drastic penalties being announced for those living and working in other parts of Serbia, except Belgrade and Vojvodina? Is it another pressure on people who live outside Belgrade and the Vojvodina to move out of their areas, to move right where the prices are more favourable and where are better conditions for life? Who has the right to break the Constitution and bring citizens of Serbia living in different areas into an unequal position? On the basis of what rules will we come into a situation where those living in areas where many are harder to do, where there is a much lower standard, where there are much higher costs for any kind of activity, that they will now have to pay even higher electricity prices? I demand the Ministry of Energy and Elektroprivreda Serbia to address this situation urgently and to make the price of electricity available at the same price for all citizens of Serbia, i.e. all those involved in the particular activity of businesses, small businesses, craftsmen and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28455	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mladen Grujic, Natasa Vukkovic, Tamara Tripic. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE RESERVATION OF THE RIGHT TO SURVEILLANCE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN, PURPOSE AND FUNDS We move on to the debate in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Dusica Morčev, as well as amendments from the Health and Family Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28456	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as well as at the plenary session, when we discussed the law in principle and amendments to the proposal of this law, we reiterated that it was very important for pregnant women and children to have health care and to be covered, the right guaranteed by the Constitution itself. We reiterated that this law has already been voted in the last term. As a MP, I voted in favour of this bill on health insurance, Article 22, which also covers this proposal. I personally welcome, I think, that it is good to regulate but that, in addition to legal solutions, in addition to extracting a certain group from the existing Health Insurance Act, where the enforceability of these laws is very important. We'll vote again for a law we've already voted on. It's not a problem. We'll vote the third time if we have to. What I point out, what the DS parliamentary group points out is the functionality of the health system. What do our pregnant women, what do our children have from the health system, health insurance? In this proposal, the amendment states whether the doctor is an obstetrician or a general practitioner. What I have to say to you and ask you is, not to the proposer, but to the Ministry of Health – what have we done as a state in the education of these obstetricians? In the education of our doctors? What we did about a beautiful donation given by the Japanese people to the state of Serbia and the Serbian people, and he gave 39 mammographers. I ask the question as a folk MP of the DS – where are they and are all 39 mammographers who have been given to the people of Japan to the people of Serbia? The next question, the Japanese people gave the opportunity, the former Japanese ambassador, to allow 80 doctors, 80 radiologists to go to Japan, about the Japanese government's cost of educating themselves to work with mammographers, to read videos for women who should be examined.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28457	Please, sir, go back to the agenda, to the amendment. I mean, that training and what about mammographs is an interesting question, but it's not about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28458	I'm talking about specialization. Thank you, but I think it is very important that the MPs and citizens of Serbia understand that it is good that we make good laws, but that it is much more important than the law is passed. What citizens have exactly of these laws that we bring to the Serbian Parliament. I'll finish after you warned me to finish this discussion. I will end with the question – is it possible, if the Japanese gave us 80 specializations that only a few doctors have left and that we in Serbia do not have enough doctors to read the mammographic video. These are the mistakes of our health system we need to talk about. The laws are good, the laws we can praise, but the enforceability of these laws is an obligation to criticise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28459	The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28460	My fellow Members and I have submitted amendments to this bill. We're sorry these amendments weren't accepted. Our intention was to improve this proposal, but regardless, the DSS parliamentary group will support and this is the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28461	The proposed law has the National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28462	In consultation with the members of the Health Committee, I have discussed all these amendments. As someone who is not a doctor, I wanted to consult with them and get an opinion which is why some of these amendments should or should not be accepted. In particular, all my fellow doctors, from all parties, have assured me that only a doctor of gynaecology can determine pregnancy. I completely agree with you. In some parts of Serbia, there may be no specialists, it may be harder for these women to reach a specialist, they will not be able to do so in their place, they will have to get instructions, but it is defined that if a doctor suspects pregnancy, he can only direct a pregnant woman to a specialist, who is the only one empowered to make such a type of diagnosis. Some of the amendments I accepted, some not. In any case, I appreciate your efforts, since your parliamentary group has tabled five amendments, to try to improve this text of the law something with consultations and with the members of the Committee, the amendments to the Committee have been changed in this regard. I think, in that sense, the law is better and that's why I thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28463	The word has been given by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28464	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stefanovic, on behalf of the legislator of this law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully read the amendments that my colleagues from the DSS handed over, including this amendment. We have one problem here whether to vote for this amendment or not? The problem is not the content of the amendment. The problem is that we vote for a law that already exists and is applied. I have no problem voting as a member of the DS for a law that already exists, if it will help those who did not vote for that law, when the law was passed, to die of conscience. If we have waited 23 years for some to see and realize that Serbia's future is in the EU, then we will lose this day to realize that such a law was necessary and that we brought it in the last term. We'll do it a hundred times. We don't have any problem with that. The amendments are meaningful, which have been handed over by colleagues from the DSS, including this amendment. The question is – how to vote for the amendment and the law that already exists? We will certainly vote for that law again, we voted last time. If that's the way some people start their campaign for some other election, we'll help them. We have no problem if they think they're strengthening their political capacity by proposing a law like this. On the other hand, I underline, it was in political practice, not only in Serbia, but also in other countries, that some parties come to power and then try through legislative activity to correct what they missed when they were in opposition or what they missed when they were in power last time. We accept that. I say, some of us have waited 23 years to realize that Serbia's future is in the EU. We'll wait for those who didn't realize that this law was supposed to be voted last time. If you need support for these DSS amendments, personally, I will give you that support. I appreciate your efforts to improve the law that already exists. I appreciate your efforts to vote for the law you voted for last time. I appreciate your efforts to improve the amendments to this existing law, as I appreciate the proposals' efforts to calm their conscience because last time they didn't vote for this law when we passed that law. Personally, I will vote for this amendment to the DSS, not so much from the collegiate relations with my colleagues in the DSS, but because it corrects the text of the law, but it is a little pointless to spend the day and the amendments on improving the law that already exists and is being applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28465	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28466	Since this is one thesis that does not stand and since the question asked directly applies to me, I was not a MP when the Health Insurance and Health Security Act was adopted. However, in general, I do not dispute the good intentions of those who brought it back then that they wanted to fix the situation in the health system, not at all. I have to tell you the most direct, the most personal, never intended to propose this law, nor the amendments and additions to the Labour Act that I submitted a few months ago, start any political campaign. When I run for something or when I'm run by my party, I'll go out and say it. That's not what this is for. However, I have no doubt that those who proposed the law at that time had a good intention, they overlooked one thing. I've said that many times in the principle debate, but I'll say it one more time. They've overlooked one thing that a working woman, who's basically a working relationship, can't have health insurance unless she's certified a health book. That's what the law that the colleagues voted for says. Unfortunately, it's an oversight. It has not been taken into account that some companies are not able to pay their contributions, which is already tax authorities' business and they need to pursue it. No company should be because of these, because we don't want pregnant women, parents, mothers to be held accountable because their employers weren't safe. Article 17. The health insurance law, i.e. health care, makes it clear that a woman who has a basic insurance base of 1010, or employment, does not have health care if her book is not certified and this is a failure in that law. This law makes it possible. He allows that one mistake to be made, I don't believe anyone wanted that mistake to be established. Now if someone doesn't want to accept that the law is good, to justify voting again and again a thousand times, to vote for the law that exists and which is already being applied... Some even told us that the Constitution applies, although there is no direct application of the Constitution. The constitution is applied through laws. There is simply no direct application of the Constitution. If it's going to make it easier for a conscience to press a button for the day when it's voted, although it would be quite right, if you think it's too high, to vote against or not to vote, but then maybe it wouldn't be popular, so you'd have to explain to the electoral body why you don't vote, freely, it doesn't matter to me at all what the reasons are. I'm glad everyone's going to vote yes and thus give support to this law. I am glad that we will demonstrate the unity of the National Assembly. Honestly, personally, I wouldn't vote for the law I think is excessive. I would never vote for such a law. Never, because it's pointless. You're voting for something that's not good. So, there's an increase in administration, a number of laws, etc. However, since this law does not exist, it is first in front of the National Assembly in the form of a lex specialis, correcting the mistake that a working woman, whose health insurance base is a working relationship, is the only way for her to have health insurance that her work book has been certified. Now these women and mothers won't have to have a health book, they won't have to think about whether employers are safe, whether their books are certified. They'll be able to see a doctor without a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28467	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Milivoevich? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: By amendment. ) The first word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28468	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't think I was answering these points, or amendments, since we discussed this whole issue on the Health Committee. I don't think this is a bad time to jump in and say a few words about this amendment, but not at all about the intensity of the legislator. So the MP group Together for Serbia will vote in favour of the law. I said in the debate what we think. As far as this amendment is concerned, bringing new laws on suspicion that the old ones are not good or not applied will lead us to have a number of new laws that will regulate these issues individually, because we practically regulate, in this way, certain categories of the population came out of the domain of the Health Insurance Act. Now I have a personal problem here, and that's what I said on the Health Committee. I don't think he's covered by these amendments, and maybe it wouldn't be bad to be, since we're passing a new law. In an explanation for the adoption of this law you have put, Mr. President, that this law is actually good and that it will help increase the birth rate in the Republic of Serbia. It will allow everyone to access the healthcare system, whether they have certified books or not, and that's good. That's why we're voting. But we have here two categories of women who won't be able to be covered, and these are the categories of women who suspect pregnancy. That's what I said on the board. These are women who have not been diagnosed with pregnancy. Then how are they going to get into the system, examine themselves, and practically become part of that health care system? The second category is women who are in the process or who want to enter the out-of-body fertilisation process. If we want to think about it and speed up our health system, how are we going to get these women who are in a working relationship to have a base 1010 or a base 1410 or a base 1814, and they don't have a certified book, how are we going to allow them to get into the process, to come true as mothers, to have a family? How are we going to allow them to be treated? I support the idea that all women in Serbia, in this case of pregnant women and maternity, have health care regardless of whether their book is certified or not, but I believe that there are categories of population that we have forgotten. Also, we have severe illnesses, we have people who work in restructure companies, who can't be treated, diabetics, we have cardio-vascular diseases, we have malignant diseases, we have all those diseases that are of greater socio-medical importance, and they're not covered. That's why the MP group of the U.S. and I, as part of it, are going to propose some laws to remedy this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28469	The word has been given by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28470	Thank you. The truth is, in the current bill of law, all pregnant women who work and go to maternity and maternity care, if they come to a counter of authorized health institutions and find that their employer did not pay for contributions, they are automatically subject to Article 22 of the Law, which states that pregnant women and maternity women have the right to free treatment. That's absolutely true. That's why there's no need to change the law. That's why it's enough to change the software program. He did not pay the employer, by clicking on the button, automatically switch to the user of free healthcare that belongs to both the law of the 22nd and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and there is no dispute there. Serbian citizens know that, too, we know that in the O.R., as well as the legislator. On the other hand, I am sorry that Mr Stefanovic was not in parliament a MP when this law was proposed last time and when it was voted on. I am absolutely convinced that he, unlike his colleagues from the SNS, would support that law and then support it. I believe that by the power of his authority he would convince Tomislav Nikolic, Jorganko Tabakovic and all other MPs who were then MPs to vote for the law. We don't have any problem continuing our political consistency, because we're not giving up, we're not flippers, we're flyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28471	Mr. Milivoevich, as patient as I am, I still can't tolerate it, go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28472	I'll try it more plastic to explain. The Democratic Party is a consistent party and when such a law is proposed for which we voted, we do not give up our political past. When we said 1991 – Serbia's future is in the EU, we consider it 2013. When we were reviewing this law in 2008 and 2009,
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28473	Mr. Milivoevich, you've gone past the amendment again. Don't drag the EU into this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28474	It's not about the EU, it's about consistency. No one can tell us – don't vote for the law that exists now. The next day when we vote that this is the coat of arms of Serbia, which is behind you, which we have suggested, some have not voted for, we will also vote for it, because we are not backing away from it. When you say that Serbia's policy is that and that, we will say -- it's true, we accept it, it's our political belief. When you say that it is the obligation of legislators to care for health care, care and to help mothers and pregnant women, we will say – that is, it is the policy of the DS from which we have not deviated for 23 years. You can't make us vote against that right now. No, it's a fundamental principle, a system of values on which DS rests, which is why we are formed, founded and exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28475	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28476	Mr. Authorised Proposer, Mr. Stefanovic, I think you should have accepted this amendment to the law that you called yours. You said, Mr. Stefanovic - my law. The law, when adopted, will be the law of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He won't be called Nebojsa's Law, although there is a Nebojsa Tower. (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the place: This doesn't make sense. ) Mr. Stefanovic, I think you should be tolerant and not throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28477	I think you too, Mr. Veselinovic, use words that aren't right and it's normal for a man to react. I never heard Mr. Stefanovic say it was his law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28478	Yeah, he said it was his law. Check the notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28479	And if he said, now we're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28480	To his law. I said I should have accepted the amendment to his law. On the other hand, I say it is not his law, but it will be the law of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will be obliged to respect all those who apply the law. On the other hand, it is not correct to say – if you think the law is not good, why should you vote for it? It's simply a matter of policy, of the fact that you are one subject that is normative, but it has a political dimension. In fact, it is the norms that already exist in the positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia, which you are putting back into one law, you are pulling it out into a Lex specialis, as you have called it and now you are telling us – do not vote in favour of those provisions. You would say tomorrow, Mr. Stefanovic, that we are against pregnant women, against children, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28481	Mr. Veselinovic, I understand the need for your political struggle, but I can no longer allow you to discuss the amendment in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28482	Take the session as you wish. I don't want to talk anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28483	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say – a lot of noise about nothing, when someone finds himself in a situation where they are, and then they talk about it. If there's something politicizing, politicizing is what we're listening to right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28485	Switch to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28486	Here I go. I don't mind the law being called Nebojsa's Law. That sounds nice. I don't see any problem with that. But, no, it will be brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with its votes, mostly in the Assembly, as far as I can see, and those who are looking for a reason to criticise it, and do not know why they are criticising it, will also vote in favour of the bill. I don't see how one amendment or one bill can be political in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28487	The Rules of Procedure apply both to one side and to the other. Please return to the amendment. Don't do a kind of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28488	I explain that the law is no more political than any other.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28489	You are well aware that now the amendments submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev are on the agenda. He's in front of us here, and we're not discussing things in principle anymore, we're talking in particular. Please respect that. At least you respect it, if others won't, but you really should respect it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28490	Well, then I'll just say one more sentence. It is impossible that one law, as well as an amendment to the bill in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has nothing to do with politics. All that's done in the Assembly is politics. It is completely pointless to criticize the law on this basis and say that someone will use it politically or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28491	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28492	I've been looking for a replica since I was mentioned. I mean, never during the debate, I even said in principle this isn't my law. This is the law that I have proposed, but this is the law for which I have asked the consensus of all MPs in the National Assembly. What is good is that I have succeeded, that all MPs of the National Assembly will vote for him or at least the largest majority. Of course, not all have individually declared themselves, but the largest parliamentary groups and the largest number of parliamentary groups have declared that they will support this law, which I am extremely proud of. I said and I stand behind it that I would never vote for a law that I find unnecessary. I would never vote. Others can and have the right to vote or not to vote, let them do whatever they want, it is the right of MPs. I would never vote for a law that I consider excessive, but this law is no extra. It is not surplus because, unfortunately, when a pregnant woman who is in a working relationship comes to the counter, it is not automatically applied to Article 22 because the law is very clear, that the pregnant woman who is working on it is applied to Article 17 and there is no possibility of applying Article 22. At that point, she's looking for a certified health book. Did doctors take women like that? Of course they are. They received and conducted certain examinations, diagnostics, and, unfortunately, because they could not charge from the Fund in such a way as to harm their health institutions. But what matters here is that we are able to help another category of our population. Our political conflicts and who will report multiple times or say it doesn't matter at all to the citizens of Serbia. For Serbian citizens, it is important that we provide another category of population. God forbid we start thinking about better protection, try to provide enough resources and start talking about better protection for the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28493	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to Article 3. National MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Ljiljana Lučić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28494	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members of the People, you have seen that in the bill on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and the maternity care of legislators of Neboja Stefanovic, there is no member of the law that would refer to sources of funding for the rights of the bill. The amendment that tries to regulate it has actually been submitted by the Health and Family Committee. In fact, only in the context of the Bill's proposal, the Proposer is talking about funding. It explains: "For the implementation of this law no additional budget needs to be provided. The means to implement this law will be provided under the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund." It could be concluded from this reasoning that the legislator thinks that the health care of children, unemployed pregnant women and maternity women, or those to whom the employer does not pay contributions, as well as other persons covered by Article 22. The Health Insurance Act does not finance from the Republic budget, so there will be no new cost, so to speak, for the budget or it considers that the funds already allocated in the Republic budget are sufficient for these purposes. Unfortunately, it's not true either. Namely, Article 204. The Exclusion Health Insurance Act states that not only children, pregnant women and mothers, so the women of the maternity family, but also a whole series of other categories of population covered by Article 22 are financed from the budget. Taking part in the principle debate, the proponent informed parliament that he had agreed with the head of the RFZO and that 500 million dinars would be provided for these purposes. In the principle debate, I also said that we have no problem with the existing law of the rights of these categories not being well regulated, but that the main problem is because it has been transferred from the budget for years by an unsuitable amount of funds to ensure that these categories have really health care. I also cited that in 2011, 2012 and 2013, without any changes, 615 million are allocated each year, which is absolutely insufficient for these purposes. Has something changed with the 2014 draft budget or the 2014 Financial Plan of the Health Insurance Fund? Can we see that 500 million there, as the promoter told us in the principle debate and twice, I saw here in the stenogram? Unfortunately, it's not. Six hundred and sixty-six million are scheduled. That's about 53 million more than in previous years. You'll agree that 53 million is not 500 million. Essentially, we still have a problem not providing adequate amounts of funds that all these categories covered by Article 22 are truly funded by their protection. So we still have a problem. In light of the financial plan of the RSO for 2014, even a very detailed analysis of the data has been developed, one calculation is that, in fact, if we want to truly protect all these categories, it would be necessary to provide 12 billion. This is twenty times more than the budget now has the opportunity to transfer to the Fund for the Protection of these people, or even more precisely says – we are now providing 695 dinars per face, and it should be 12,714 dinars. So, as I have said many times in the principle debate, existing legal solutions relating to the health care of the most vulnerable categories of the population, including children, unemployed pregnant women and maternity women, are good. We don't need any special law. We need significantly more serious funds in the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. in the budget to be transferred to the Fund. That is why I will propose an amendment to the 2014 draft budget and try to make that amendment, if it comes to the understanding of MPs here, a really bad situation in the Fund as regards the protection funds of these categories of persons repaired. So once again, let's not make laws that already exist, laws that cannot be applied because we don't have the right means. Let's control the law. Finally, parliament has the role to play to monitor implementation. We ask the Ministry of Health to give clear instructions to the Fund that protection of citizens covered by Article 22 should be carried out. So let's not write laws that will remain, as far as the quality of health care and face coverage is concerned, actually a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28495	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28496	Fortunately, this law is not about that, since this letter is neither dead letter on paper nor in any way repeats any provision that already exists. This law is good because it includes another category of mothers, pregnant women, and maternity mothers who have not had adequate health care so far. I am pleased that all MPs in voting day, at least most, will vote for this and thus show that this law has been something important to the Republic of Serbia. As regards the funds involved in this amendment, there are differences between the current funds of the Fund that he has and those transferred from the budget. We'll agree that these budget funds aren't enough, but it's not enough this year, they're not enough years ago. We haven't had good health care for years, no good economics, no good privatisation of companies, etc. Many of the things that have happened in this country have not been good, and these problems have not arisen six months or a year ago, there are years and years in our society. Many who are very loud about it today were then very quiet in their criticisms, demands, and efforts to improve the situation. As far as this is concerned, the Fund will provide between 450 and 500 million dinars for this position exclusively for this part of the job to be done. However, since Serbia is a legally regulated state, the Fund cannot adopt before the law is adopted to access the security of funds because there is no basis for doing so. So, only when we have adopted this law will the Fund be able to do a different distribution of funds in its financial plan and to display that item from 450 to 500 million, which will be done from one surplus that has from previous business, which will be transferred from previous years, and these funds transferred by the Republic, which are budget funds, are insufficient and I completely agree with it. Unfortunately, the difficult economic situation is such that they managed to make an increase compared to the previous year, which is not little compared to the situation in the country. I wish the former fund managers had taken better care of how to better protect the population than they did of other matters, but that is for them, for the soul and for all those who have proposed them and elected them in those places.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28497	The word has Ljiljana Lucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28498	I'll be very brief. So, if there's a surplus in the Health Insurance Fund, it certainly isn't the work of this director. It is said that from the previous period there is an surplus of funds. However, there is one problem. So, you can't protect these categories of people from the surplus that came from the contribution of employees, but only from the transfer from the budget. There is very little chance that after the adoption of this law, we will get a kind of rebalancing of the Republic Health Fund's financial plan. Because it is clear from what means the population categories are secured. Therefore, mandatory contributions shall ensure that persons referred to in Article 17. The budget of the Republic of Serbia provides for persons covered by Article 22. The resources collected in the Fund from contributions paid by all persons referred to in Article 17 may not be used to cover the costs of health care of persons referred to in Article 22. But we're here to see what a rebalance of the Health Insurance Fund's financial plan will look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28499	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've already spoken to the Health Committee and I wanted to say that we're facing two things here. The first is – what is a real level of health care in Serbia. We can't get away from it, all together. A lot of things are on the board, where members are primarily doctors, who said it would be hard to get the patient back from the office door when he gets here, hardly anyone will return the pregnant woman, but it's not like it's not there, because we're getting the memos. This is a particular problem with farmers, where health centres are often not close to them, it happens that someone is really looking for a book, etc. So this law sort of covers, gives the legal basis that they also have health care. But my colleague Ljiljana Lucic is absolutely right. I, remember, last time I mentioned disabled people and some other categories that should also be covered by Article 22. But what's the point here is that we have to, I'm sorry that you didn't invite the Director of the Fund and the Minister of Health, but this is the beginning of a debate about our society, essentially, what this country with these resources can actually guarantee from mandatory health care. One more thing – to whom? Apparently, some categories of population no longer have real health care in this country. Serbia always has a problem facing the truth, or it does it with a delay. This is one truth, and we can't get away from it. Of course everyone will vote for your law, who could vote against it? I don't see who would be against pregnant women and children not having health care. But here is the question – what has happened so far? It's actually the subject of your law. You say - I have to protect them by law, because so far it doesn't look so good. I'm just saying that we can't get away from it and I don't know why the Health Ministry is finally not coming out, I guess it doesn't dare tell us what the real situation is in Serbia. And the real situation in Serbia is not good. This law confronts us that some categories of people do not have health care, and these are mostly farmers and unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28501	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28502	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if this amendment had not been accepted by the Committee, there would have been inconceivable damage and consequences for all maternity and pregnant women because there would be no budget from which we could pay what is required when it comes to that category of population. Every surface, every unfounded in real life when it comes to some law, I won't say in knowledge, is very dangerous. Because, the amendment says -- the rights established by this law, children, pregnant women and foster mothers are derived from the means of compulsory health insurance. What does that mean now when it comes to the practice of this law? We are here to witness a very dangerous political practice so-called. the agreed legislation where you and I, for example, Mr. Chairman, agree to interpret the Rules of Procedure in some other way. That's unacceptable. I'm only going to call for experience in Serbia, and don't interrupt me, I'm talking about the amendment, and I'm not talking about the experience from the '90s until 2013. Here's what it looked like were the attempts of the agreed legislation, that you and I might make a deal, or that the governor of the National Bank, the finance minister or the king's secretary might agree on something. For example, King Petar First Karadjordjevic sends his secretary to agree with the Kingdom of Serbia's Finance Minister, Dr Laz Pachu, to borrow a loan of two million dinars. And he says: “You will give me two million dinars in the form of loans, in the form of my salaries for a few years in advance. ” You know what Laza Pacum says: "He can't." Now the king's secretary asks – how can he not? He tells him: “Look! The times are hard, perhaps the king is abdicating, who will return? A lie? Maybe the times are even harder. Maybe the king replaces the second dynasty. Who's coming back? It's a lie. “ So there is no deal here. We can't negotiate with institutions, whether they're the Republic Health Insurance Fund or some other institution. Everything has to be based on the law. Who guarantees that there will be no extraordinary parliamentary elections in February? Or is the agreement of the President of the Assembly, Nebojja Stefanovic and the Director of the Fund in force? It doesn't work. I'd like to get along. You are to me a better president of the Assembly than you will be a candidate for mayor of Belgrade. You'd better sit here and don't lose to Gilas. But nothing guarantees us that you might run another race and that I regret to say that the deal that Nebojsa Stefanovic made with the director of the Health Insurance Fund is no longer valid. On the other hand, you said that Serbia is a legally regulated state. Everything here has to be regulated by law, and the law says the funds have to be provided in the Health Insurance Fund. So, even so far, those funds have been secured, but they haven't been properly transferred. We should make more sure that criminal sanctions and criminal provisions of this law are applied, that we do not have the situation of the respected colleague Korac, that users, people who deal with agricultural production, farmers, come with a pregnant woman and they tell him – you do not have a certified book. What do people know when they come to the doctor if they're right or wrong? You know how few people know a member of the law, the rights that belong to him from the Constitution. People have no idea. God, who can't skip, is a nurse on the counter who says you don't have a certified health book. One out of ten will say - it is my constitutional right to have my pregnant wife examined. They can bring such a woman back, because that woman may not know the law, maybe she doesn't know the constitutional rights, and she shrugs her shoulders and goes home. We're full of complaints from citizens complaining about law enforcement. Finally, I would like to say that we have no problem voting for the law we voted for, we will vote again. If this amendment hadn't been adopted, the previous law would have been unthinkable. I don't think there was an evil intention of the legislator to prevent these assets from being predicted by the law, rather a failure for shortfall or some other reason. But don't honor us whether we love or don't like people by voting for this law. Because it's not love to love people, it's love to know people, and it's virtue to love people. When you meet them, you love them. So don't think we hate you. We know you well. That's why we love you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28503	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28504	I've never really respected anyone whether they loved or loved people. But what I was about to say is that the funds will be provided anyway. So that's something that we've been working on, and I agree that they're well defined in the law. I have to tell you, as far as Belgrade is concerned, it would have been good if it had been some Lazar Pachuj and in the Belgrade administration in the previous period to say - don't be in debt, take a little less credit. It would have been good if Lazar Pachuaj had been there, because Lazara would have returned it. However, this time, the Belgraders will return what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28505	On what basis, Mr. Milivoevich?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28506	By amendment. Time hasn't changed much, Mr. Chairman. We don't have Lazu Pachu anymore, but we have Lazu Krstic. Don't be at the end of your heart. If Laza Krstic does not bring us here a proposal to rebalance the budget, although under budget rebalance we do not have a budget rebalance of the Health Insurance Fund this law will unfortunately remain a dead letter on paper. What I've told you will happen -- the many laws you've passed, they've become a mass grave of dead letters on paper. No implementation in practice without money. If there's no money, if Laza, just don't Pachu, but Krstic, he doesn't run financials like his name 100 years ago, then it's bad for us, and God forbid it's worse for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28507	The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev. Proposer, MP Nebojsa Stefanovic and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28508	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I am taking every opportunity to revive every amendment and revive every draft law. In this amendment and this law, we're talking about pregnant women, maternity mothers and children. In this bill of law, we're talking about our concern for pregnant women. Today, media reported that the medicine gynipral used by pregnant women as well as partustistin is being withdrawn from the Serbian market because they are dangerous to pregnant women's health. I'm telling you that the system, the Ministry of Health, has to be here, to be with us and to say - law enforcement. What is our application of the law? So this is a very dangerous topic. My wife, we've lost two babies - we've been receiving gynipral. How many babies have the citizens of Serbia lost? So we need to have serious control of the health system that's been down for the past 20 years. As regards this amendment, Article 4(1) in its reasoning - the bill proposes that children exercise the rights set out in this law on the basis of a document and on health insurance issued by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, regardless of whether the document is certified. I think we will all agree on this definition in the bill and there is not a single doctor who will say – I cannot examine the child because it is a certified or untrustworthy book. It's good to further define that in law, but again I'm asking you a question of functionality, the enforceability of that law. Once again it takes the Ministry of Health to give some answers. So, as MPs, we make some good laws, but yet some laws are not enforceable in practice. I'm telling you again through the example of life that a huge number of children in Serbia are not covered by health insurance. It doesn't matter if he has a health book certified, and with this amendment, beyond this law, you have a large number of humanitarian actions again. Again, you have a large number of children who are not covered by this law. My appeal, there's a constant appeal for life. Let's try, as Mr. Stefanovic said, that as far as health care is concerned, at least we're not arguing. Let us at least unite around health care and realize that we have a sick nation and that it is certainly a contribution for each of us to improve one good bill, improve the health system. But again, I'm telling you, I need you to sit here, the Minister of Health, and I need you to tell me why our health care system isn't working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28509	On the basis of Article 157... . Mr. Gordic, do you want a word after the previous amendment? You called late. I could deny you the right to say it, but I won't. The word is Vladimir Gordic and Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28510	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I wanted to say last time in the principle debate, I mentioned that it is not good that we still have children, pregnant women and foster parents who do not have certified health books under this law. According to the Health Insurance Act, today we had an interpretation by the legislator that those insurance companies, i.e. pregnant women and maternity mothers, which are provided under Article 17, which cannot be provided under Article 17, cannot be treated, which is not true. According to Article 22, it is clear – if they do not meet the conditions for obtaining the security features of Article 17 of this Act. All pregnant women and families who do not have a contribution paid under Article 17 shall be entitled to insurance under Article 22 and shall be entitled to be provided with health books, as well as children who do not exercise their right as a member of the insurance family.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28511	The word is Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28512	That's not true, except that it only applies if the basic health insurance is not their job. If their basic health insurance is employment, it's 1010 in the health book, in which case they have to have a certified health book because it's the only way the health care institution can collect its service. I know the doctors are going to do the examinations, and that's very nice and humane of them, but that's how they damage their health care facility by reducing the chances of having regular salaries and they and medical staff and that's the problem. After all, if we're going to define and protect this category more clearly this way, I think it's a good thing to do in the health system. I don't see at all the need of a day this way turns out to be a conflict over a topic that obviously we all agree on. I think it's a good thing for all the MPs and I don't see the need to fight over this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28513	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28514	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about two types of patients, patients who don't have any insurance and patients who have insurance but are not paid contributions. That's what we need to figure out. That's what we said in the plan. This law, as Mr Stefanovic said earlier, speaks only of patients, regardless of whether they are pregnant, children or maternity, who have a health book but are not paid to contribute. It regulates this law in a way that regulates, human and good. We'll see how we do it later. Anyway, positive. We have a second section, and there are patients who are absolutely unsecured, who also come to a health care facility looking for medical care, and in the last year, 620 million dinars were provided for those persons for their treatment from the Republic Health System Fund. These funds, right out of conversation, will be increased by budget rebalance so we can cover this part of the patients we're talking about right now. It is completely unnecessary to discuss the financial part now because this is about human law and patient care, not finance, because finance will be secured from the republican budget in one way or another. What my colleague Milisavljevic mentioned earlier, two medications withdrawing from use, I don't think it's the place to discuss it, not to panic. That's what I'm saying because of the citizens and pregnant women who use this medicine. It's two drugs we've been using recently. One can still be used as an infusion within 48 hours if premature delivery or spontaneous abortion threatens. It only withdraws from use in oral use of the long-term and has now come to the conclusion that it can cause problems on the cardiovascular system of the foetus. I don't think this is the place to talk about it, especially it shouldn't be like that because it can cause panic among our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28515	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28516	I'd like an amendment, Mr. Chairman. From this debate in particular, I was under the impression that some fellow MPs have been mistaken about the technique of implementing this law, so I would like to clarify that. Perhaps Mr Stefanovic could do it, but I actually don't think our colleagues really know how technically this is going to go on in life. So no one's gonna be certified a book, whose book can't be certified, because that doesn't allow the Health Insurance Act. So, no child, no pregnant woman, no foster child will be certified, because there is some other basis for insurance, and under the existing Health Insurance Based Insurance Act, no change can be made. She will be admitted to a health care facility, will have treatment, will be provided health care services, but will be paid by the Republic Fund, as it stands in this law. It's a key and important difference. I've been contacted by some people who work in medical institutions, I mean doctors and dentists. Since the citizens are already familiar with this procedure and as far as we're concerned, they asked me – how do we go on? Now, for that to go on, it is very important to me, and I ask you, please, the President of the Assembly who is the legislator of the law, as well as the Director of the Republic Fund, let's not make life more difficult for the citizens. So, please, when this starts to work and it starts to work, obviously that citizens are very interested, not with additional forms, additional procedures, which, otherwise, the Republic Fund is prone to, and I know because I've been working in it, let's not make life more difficult for the citizens, but let's just let this thing work without any additional forms, no additional confirmation, no additional reports, no further evidence, and let the children, pregnants and the foster parents be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28517	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Health and the Family have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposer, MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev. The promoter did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the Soul of the Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28518	In Article 5(3), it is defined that the maternity child who gave birth to a dead child has the right to health care, according to this law, within three months of delivery. As you have explained, you have called for a three-month period by harmonising that you are entitled to maternity leave from working according to the regulations governing working relationships. So the maternity leave is due to get into work after the end of the three months, which gave birth to a dead child. We think it's too short a three-month period for health care. My colleagues and I are not doctors, but we have doctors here who are members of the Committee who can tell about the general health of pregnant women, the mental state, how they endure and how difficult it is. We simply believe that three months is a short term, that they have the right to health care after losing a child, especially since the purpose of this law is to protect children, pregnant women and maternity mothers. These families who have lost a child, God will give them that they will be pregnant again, but in order to come to this in the easiest and best way, to be prepared to continue their lives and to come to life as mothers, we believe that this deadline should be extended from three to six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28519	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28520	Thank you. I think this amendment was given from an unknown law and it's quite right that the Committee rejected it. My colleague, and now the maternity leave lasts for three months, and the rest of the nine months represents the care of a child, to which most often a woman who is born and has the right and has the right to care for a child. So, only maternity leave has been legally regulated for three months. Therefore, in this case it is fully justified that the bill Mr. Stefanovic gave, that after the death of the child, the maternity leave lasts for three months, as much as the second law is regulated. Because since, unfortunately, the child has expounded for these or those reasons, there is no need for care, so it is quite right that this amendment be rejected, i.e. that he may not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28521	The word has the Soul of the Sea, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28522	I said, and I pointed out that this applies, or that you put this in, referring to... Just to see how it's defined in law. So this is how it is said - in line with the right to maternity leave with work according to the regulations governing working relationships. I'm talking about health care, and this woman, who's still not being paid contributions, won't be able to go to the doctor and get the right to health care because we're no longer protecting her as a foster parent. So, I said, not as a doctor, but as a human, that a woman who lost a child after three months could probably happen in some cases to have problems, to have mental problems, to have some other health problems that reflect on her general health, and that this law should protect her, because we are not just looking at her from the point of view of whether she is a maternity mother at that point, but that she is a possible and future pregnant woman. That's why I'm saying that we need to have more understanding and that we need to allow it to be protected for at least three more months, so that it can exercise its right to health care, even health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28523	The word is made by MP Marko Milutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28524	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I believe there has been a misunderstanding here in the region now. So we can't talk about childcare if it's a stillborn child. Within three months, there will be no right to this maternity care. That's what we told you. That's what doctors probably know better than just the psychophysical condition that gave birth to a dead child, but also those who gave birth to living children, in which they are psychologically, especially after giving birth. But in what state of mind can there be a foster child who has given birth to a dead child and what is the period of this psychological recovery, and what is the importance of it precisely in order to reenter its pregnancy and the possibility of giving birth again and giving birth to a child. This is extremely important for us, given that, as for others, the family is a basic cell of society. So protection, and in this aspect, we think it'd be better if instead of three months it stood for six months. In that case, if we say so, it will be a lex specialis that would be applied to the basic law that applies and regulates this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28525	Replica Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28526	I just wanted to talk to you for a second. I don't think this is the subject of this law, and we shouldn't be plowing about it right now. It may be regulated in the general health care law, so this is now not the subject of this law and should no longer be affected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28527	The soul of the sailor, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28528	I'd like to ask a colleague in what sense this isn't the subject of this law, we're talking about maternity care, and we're talking about pregnant women. We're talking about a family who, at this point, lost, or gave birth to a dead child, and we're looking to protect themselves and have health care for a long time so that she can exercise her right and become pregnant again and be protected by this law again. I really don't understand how this doesn't apply to this law and what my colleague was trying to say to these people. She would once again turn to the motionary and ask him to consider this and that we think this amendment is a good proposal. It's simple to hear the promoter why he didn't accept it and maybe there's some other reason but the one that the colleague put out just doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28529	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28530	This is the moment in the work of the Assembly when we came, and we understand your motives. We've got a gynecologist's board, and it's certainly more professional than me to answer, and even though there's another gynecologist sitting. I guess this is one big part of the professional question of how stressful this is, and you've opened the second question, so it's not just psycho-psychological help can be some kind of health care. Usually, this work of grief is considered to last under normal circumstances for about six weeks. It's a psychiatric point of view, so about a month and a half, but there are studies that have these scales of stressful events. Stressful events can be highlighted, if I remember correctly, it's the World Health Organization, I think the loss of a child is a high-stress event. I listened to my fellow doctors on the board, I have to say, but this seems to be a more professional question. I understand your motives, to further protect the women to whom it happened, I suppose there are most MPs, I really can't plead here because you went by logic that applies to children who are born, living children, newborns, and this is even. They are now insisting that this is too stressful and healthy some coincidences plus can be, so it should be extended to six months. That is, if I understand the discussion that I am measuring. Seems to me she's a lot of the expert. So I ask my fellow gynecologists, they have experience with this in life, in their medical practice, to answer the question of how reasonable this proposal looks to them and that it should take six months, although it adds to the fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28531	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev. National MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 10th amendment. National MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Tuesday, November 26th, 2013 starting at 14.00 a.m. as the day for voting on all agenda points of the fourth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, with the exception of points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda, which were already voted on by the National Assembly on 20 November 2013. Thank you all for your participation. [[The session was suspended at 11.55 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-26-0.u28532	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly, there is a majority of the total number of MPs present at the National Assembly meeting. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail from the fifth item of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 10 abstentions – 15 out of 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Ljuban Panic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 143 out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Teodora Vlahovic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 142 of the 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic and Nenad Constantinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 142 of the 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ljuban Panic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ranka Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 14, the abstention – there is no vote, 18 of the 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE DETECTIVE ACTIVITY LAW As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the draft law on detective activity in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – 19, abstentions – there is no vote, 20 of the 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the Bill's proposal became amendments to the MPs: Djorđa Milicevic and Stefana Miladinović to Article 5; Milisav Petronijevic and Miroljub Stojčić to Article 6; Zlata Đerić and Dubravka Filipovski to Articles 6, 7, 12, 14, 20 and 33; Srdjana Milivojevic to Article 7; Suzane Spasojevic and Saša Dujović to Article 16; Zoran Angelković and Bojana Djordjevic to Article 17; Miroljubja Stojčić and Vesna Joviki to Article 18; Bojana Kostreš, Đorđa Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karol Čizik and Dragan Andrić to Article 19; Milisova Petronjević and Mirjana Dragaš to the Committee for Defence and Home Affairs, Articles 2, 33, 33, 33. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -21, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with corrections, was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 149 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted to the same text by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -21, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -18, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -19, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - two, abstentions - there is no vote of 153 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 149 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148, of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment with a correction in the course of the search in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 16 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment with the correction were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 142 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, with an amendment in the same text, was submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 144 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 145 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146, of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Srdjan Milivojevic in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 145, of all 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic to article 33. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted – 143 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on detective activity in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – 16, the abstentions – there is no, no vote – 23, of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on detective activity. We move to a decision on the 7th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PRIVATE SURVEILLANCE LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting a vote on the private security bill, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – 19 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 21, of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. To Article 6. Together, the amendment was submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Velickovic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 151 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic and joint MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 142 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 163 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146, of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 150, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 149, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 142 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment with correction was brought together by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 144 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, against – two abstentions – there is no, no – 139 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 159 of the total attendance of 165 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 145 of the total attendance of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 159 of the total attendance of 165 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Antic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 145 of the total attendance of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 141 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – for - four, against - no one who is abstention - has voted – 159 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 141 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Momir Stojanovic and MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 146 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 162 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one to vote— 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic to article 33. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted – 141 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 156 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 150 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 162 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 53rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 152 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none, abstention – one, voted – 149 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention – for - four, against - no one who is abstention - has voted – 157 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 145 of the total attendance of 158 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Miroljub Stojcic and Susana Spasojevic submitted together to the 76th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 137 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 76th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 152 of the total of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 86, MP Momir Stojanovic submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 88th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Momir Stojanovic submitted to the 89th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the private security bill, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, v – 18, abstention – two, 13 of the total of the 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a private security law. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on stock reserves to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – five, abstentions – there is no vote, 26 of the total of 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle, before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become an amendment of the MPs: together Gorice Gajic, Dusice Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Milice Vojić Marković to Article 2 with the correction and Article 5 with the correction, Katarina Rakić to members 15, 16, 18, 19, with correction, 20, 22, with correction, 23, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31, with correction, 39, 41 and 43 and the amendment Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to Articles 7, 12 and 41. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added to Article 5a, with a correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added to article 10a after article 10a, with a correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added by Article 10b, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on stock reserves in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – three abstentions – there are no, 28 of the total of 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on commodity reserves. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 26 of the total of 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment to Article 1. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the proposal for a law on the whole. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 20 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Storage and Use of Hispanic Weapons and Destroying. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Security and Interoperability Law of the Railways Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft safety and interoperability law in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 31 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted jointly by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic to the article. 16, 22, 48, 52 and 95, amendments of the Government to Art. 2, 8, 39, 55, 130, 133, 135, 139, 140 with correction, 145, 147 with correction, 148, 151, 152, 156, for the addition of a new Article 154 and amendments to which identical amendments are proposed in Article 15. 54, 136 and 143. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned, voted 139 out of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 142 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 out of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 out of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 out of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 147 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 61st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 151 people's present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 64th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 151 of the total presence of the 151-nation MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 91st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 151 people's present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 96th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 151 people's present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 151 of the total presence of the 151-nation MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft safety and interoperability law in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 124, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 27 of the total attendance of 152 national MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the safety and interoperability of the railways. 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing Law on Public Roads After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 123, v - eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 21 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -49, against -three abstentions - four, 94 of the 150 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, with abstention – voted 137 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for -12 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 151 people's present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 121 against – no one, with abstention – voted 32 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads. 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on ASSESSMENT OF THE PURPOSE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in the principle of commonity from the 12th point of the agenda, and since an integral part of the Bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by the MP Stefan Miladinovic to the members of 8th and 44th and amendments of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Article 61, and that no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 31 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Navigation. 13th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE COURT OF CHILDREN, PURPOSE AND WEDDING Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision on the 13th point of the agenda. I put to the vote a bill on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 146, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of the People's MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donke Banović and Dusica Morčev, to Articles 7 and 10. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 142 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Health and Family have submitted an amendment to Article 3. At the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family, the Proposer accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 135, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -9 against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Health and the Family have submitted an amendment to Article 5. At the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family, the Proposer accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – voted 18 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morčev. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 148 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become an amendment of the People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Dusica Morchev to Article 10, which is scheduled for this law to take effect on the day of the publication of "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Laws and other general acts shall enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the exercise of the right to the health care of children, pregnant women and maternity women. Since we are now moving to a decision on Proposals for a Law on Confirmation of International Agreements (points 14 to 30) I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those proposals of the law, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Treaty. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will only vote on these proposals as a whole. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Delivery to the INSTITUTION OF COURT AND OUTSIDE OF COURT ACTS IN CIVIL AND TRADE THINGS. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the supply abroad of judicial and non-judicial acts in civil and commercial matters, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence in the Intangible in Civil and Commercial Matters. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters, in general. You think there's some problem with the system? We'll do it again. Please, let's first determine the quorum. Please insert your cards now. I'm setting a ten-minute break for lack of quorum. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move to the polls, please establish a quorum. Please insert your cards. There's a quorum to work with. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – there is no one with abstention – none who have not voted from the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Fourth Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Extradition, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – there is no one with abstention – none who have not voted from the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation and the Republic of Austria on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD) in Vienna on 1 June 1993, supplemented by the Agreement between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the modification and extension of the ICMPD Agreement on the Establishment and Labour of 26 April 1996, as well as the Agreement on the Third Amendment of the Agreement establishing and Working of the ICMPD of 25 June 2003 between the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland, signed on 25 June 2003. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted two of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the readmission of a person whose entry or stay is illegal in general. . Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – there is no one with abstention – none who have not voted from the total of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on police co-operation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one of the 127 MPs present, voted for – 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry and stay is illegal in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 126 MPs in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the E-763 Motorway Construction Project (Obrenovac-Ljig share) between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Business, as a borrower and Chinese Export - an import bank, as a lender, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted five of the total attendance of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted five of the total attendance of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Canadian Commercial Corporation on Strategic Economic Co-operation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the total attendance of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting the motion to vote on the Act of Confirmation of Annex No. 2 Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreements in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 6 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a law on the validation of the European Agreement on the main internal waterways of international importance (AGN) in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one with abstention – has voted 4 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of rail transport, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 5 out of the 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the area of rail traffic, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Australia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic on international road transport of passengers and things, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides to suspend the public prosecutor's office. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the public prosecutor's office in the appeals public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the public prosecutor's office in the Kragujevac Public Prosecutor's Office. I am voting on the proposal for the National Assembly to make a decision that determines that conditions have been met for the termination of the post of Deputy Protector of Citizens. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of Deputy Protector of the Citizens. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, adopted a motion for a decision to elect a Deputy Protector of Citizens. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the Deputy Protector of the Citizens on the election and to wish them success in their work. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 5 out of the 131 MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to resolve members of the National Educational Council. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 3 out of 130 MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Educational Council. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105, paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the election of members of the National Educational Council, decides by a majority vote of all MPs. I also remind you that the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society is in accordance with Article 13. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, established a list of two candidates for the election, one candidate is elected as a member of the National Educational Council. With this in mind, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Zoran Krstic as a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 7, no one, with abstentions, voted 123 out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not chosen Dr Zoran Krstic as a member of the National Educational Council. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Vladimir Vukasinovic as a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly for a member of the National Educational Council has chosen Dr Vladimir Vukasinovic. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected member of the National Educational Council on the election and wish him much success in his work. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of two members of the National Council for Higher Education. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 3 out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect two members of the National Council for Higher Education by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the area of rail traffic, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 4 out of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 5 November 2013, at 11.20 p.m., pointed to a 27-member injury, and with regard to article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 129 of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 6 November 2013, at 12.15 p.m., pointed to injuries. 108nd and 32nd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 126 of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nada Kolundji, at a session on 12 November 2013, at 15.25 pm, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 126 of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Ivan Jovanovic, at a session on 12 November 2013, at 17.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 126 of the total of 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nada Kolundji, at a session on 14 November 2013, at 15.50 hours, pointed to an injury. 106th and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against -one, abstentions, 124 of the total of 128 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, at a session on 14 November 2013, at 16.40 p.m., pointed to an injury. 106, 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 125 of the total of 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic, at a session on 14 November 2013, at 18:15 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 125 of the total of 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, at a session on 14 November 2013, at 18.18 p.m., pointed to an injury. 27 and 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Ljiljana Lučić, at a session on 14 November 2013, at 18.25 hours, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic, at a session on 14 November 2013, at 18.27 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Petar Petkovic, at a session on 19 November 2013, at 13.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 128 of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, at a session on 20 November 2013, at 13.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that - four, against - two, abstentions - did not vote 122 of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nada Kolundžija, at a session on 20 November 2013, at 16.33 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013.
