ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-29-0.u17842	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. I remind you, Article 160 is Section 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that proposals for selection, appointment, resolution and termination of office may be put on the agenda of the sitting, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Katarina Rakic, Radojko Obradovic and Dusica Morčev. National MP Veroljub Arsic, president of the SNS parliamentary group on the basis of Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the session, the item Proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the selection of members, deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the SNS on 27 May 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 167 MPs, against - no one with abstentions is there, and I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the proposal for a decision on amendments to the decision on the election of members, deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received the motion for a decision taken by the SNS parliamentary group. I remind you, according to Article 193, it's in line with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group, which you received about the details in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups that, unless they have already done so, they shall immediately file a statement with the order of the Members of Parliament. According to Article 92(3), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search on the Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposal's representative, MP Veroljub Arsic, want the word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all sitting agenda points, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Convention, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure on Wednesday 29 May 2013 starting at 9.25 p.m. as the day for voting on the items of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Property Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the property tax law in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 51 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 11, of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 which was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together by Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – one, the abstentioned - did not vote – 166, of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Gorica Mojovic, Aleksandar Senic, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 35, no one with abstentions - has voted – 156, of the 191 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic and Dragoljub Micunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one with abstentions - has voted – 158, of the total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstentions, has voted – 179 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Olgica Batic tabled this amendment for a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, no one with abstentions - has voted – 183 of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Constantinović and Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, no one with abstention - has voted – 155, of the 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 153 of the total attendance of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—184 of the total attendance of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić and together Borislav Stefanović and Gordana Čomić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 49, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 144 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 3, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – two, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 66 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—186 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 183 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 183 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vucković and Gorica Mojovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – none, the abstentioned – one, voted – 159 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 155 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 45, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 150 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov, together with Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 155 of the total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 183 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 180 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 10th amendment with the correction, the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Dragoljub Micunovic and Srdjan Mikovic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 158 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen and Radoslav Milovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 163 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment with corrections was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Comić, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 185 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Srdjan Mikovic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 161 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vuckovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 of the total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 164 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 186 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 13th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 182 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 184 of the 197 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 188 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 27th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 184 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 185 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 188 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 32nd Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together by Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 40, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 42, against – no one, with abstention – voted 158 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together by Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together by Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 44, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together by Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov and together Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 42, against – no one, with abstention – voted 158 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Dejan Mihajlov together submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 188 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 40. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force early only if there are, in particular, justified reasons for their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 57 abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting on the vote of the Amendments and Supplements Act on property taxes in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – 61, with abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Legal Persons. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 60, abstentions – there is no, 12 of the 200 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by the MPs: Gorica Mojovic to Article 5, with correction and Vladimir Ilic to Article 10. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vuković, Aleksandar Senic, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total presence of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 188 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric, Zoran Ostojić and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment with correction was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 188 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment with amendments to the same text was brought together by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović and jointly by Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukovic, Aleksandar Senic, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 189 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of publication, given that Article 21. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – 59, abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – 62, abstention – one, did not vote 7 of the total 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, v – 60, abstentions – there is no, 12 of the total 198 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 199 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 190 of the total 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 196 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 189 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 182 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic and joint MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 183 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 184 of the total attendance of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 195 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 185 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – for - four of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 193 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 193 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 172 of the total attendance of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 190 of the total attendance of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—189 of the total attendance of 197 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—189 of the total attendance of 197 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote – 187 of the total attendance of 196 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 183 of the total attendance of 197 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 190 of the total attendance of 197 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 34. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted – 71 of the total attendance of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 183 of the total attendance of 197 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 190 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 183 of the total attendance of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic to Article 37. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 191 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 185 of the total attendance of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 191 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 191 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 194 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 188 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 193 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 192 of the total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 186 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojić together submitted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 190 of the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic together submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 188 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you, it's a 50. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – 60 abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total 198 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, v – 61, abstention – one, eight of the 198 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on APPROVAL FOR OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL OBJECTIVES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 60 abstentions – there are no, seven of the 198 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ranka Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 185 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 191 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs together Bojana Bozanić and Gorica Gajic and together by Borislav Stefanović, Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komić, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 159 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 188 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ranka Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 191 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Stepic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 171 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 184 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a 20. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124 v – 55 abstentions – there are no, 18 of the 197 MPs present were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – 60, abstention – no, eight of the 197 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - THE PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INVESTMENT OF THE CITIZEN INVESTIGATION LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 60, the abstentioned - did not vote – seven of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the People's MP, Vladimir Ilic, to Members 5th and 37th, and to the amendment of MP Zoran Bojanic to Article 5th. National MP Zoran Kasalovic, written on 27 May 2013, withdrew the amendment to Article 37. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, professor Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukovic, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 169 out of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – one, the abstentioned - did not vote – 172 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 170, out of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 171 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 171 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 173, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 169 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović and Gordana Komic and joint MPs Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićic, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 162 out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – one, the abstentioned - did not vote – 189, of a total of 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 186, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted – 177, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Borislav Stefanović, professor Dr Janko Vjevinović, Gordana Komić, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic and joint MPs Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—39, against—no one, with abstentions, voted—162, of the total presence of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidic, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Bosko Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 7, no one, with abstentions, voted – 194, out of a total of 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Mr Nebojsa Stefanović, together Jovan Palalić, Dejan Mihajlov, Milos Aligrudić and Miroslav Petkovic, together Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Markovic, Boško Ristic and Nebojsa Zelenović and together Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mićić, Ivan Andrić, Bojan Đurić and Zoran Ostojić, together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—39, against—no one, with abstentions, voted—162, of the total presence of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic, reminding me that the 23rd in the same text, MPs Srdjan Mikovic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic submitted. The government has accepted Mr Babic's amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – three, abstentioned - one, did not vote – 59, out of a total of 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. As we voted on Mr Babic's amendment, there is no need for the National Assembly to declare an amendment submitted in the same text by MPs Srdjan Mikovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic, since it is an amendment in the same text. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted—187 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 165 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 172 of the total of 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komić, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic and joint MPs Dusan Petrovic, Miodrag Djidić, Sanja Cekovic, Milovan Marković, Bosko Ristić and Nebojsa Zelenovic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the total presence of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Dejan Mihajlov and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 178 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vuković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 171 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 174 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—182 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Miroslav Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 178 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zika Gojkovic submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 185 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 37. Proposer Mr Mladjan Dinkic, finance and business minister, accepted the amendment at the Committee's session. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 62 of the 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran M. Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 189 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Gorica Mojović, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panić, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 171 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted together to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 182 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukkovic and Gorica Mojovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vuković, Aleksandar Senic, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 170, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168, out of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 167 out of 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukovic, Aleksandar Senic, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 173, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 out of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Aleksandar Senić, Ljuban Panic, Ivan Jovanovic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Srdjan Milivojević together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 out of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Nenad Popovic, Bojana Bozanic and Gorica Gajic together submitted to the 61st amendment in the same text, together with Borislav Stefanović and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—179, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 167 out of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 63rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 64th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 169 out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 65th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 166 out of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 167 out of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 68th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 out of 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Antic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 107, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 80, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 out of 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment on Article 70 of the amendment together submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic together submitted the 72th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: six, against – two, abstentions – no, 178 of the total attendance of 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, v – 50, abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – 48 abstentions – there is no vote, 10 of the 187 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accizes. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 43, abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total attendance of 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, abstention – one, 176 of the 182 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 173 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Đuric and Zoran Ostojic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to the 10th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 171 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 173 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 174 out of the 178 MPs for - four against - none of the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 173 of the 177 MPs for - four against - none, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 14a be added after article 14. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 168 of the 175 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 173 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 168 of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 16a be added after article 16. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Ivan Andric, Bojan Djuric and Zoran Ostojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 169 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the Government's proposal contained in Article 17. The bill that this law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", or earlier than the Constitution of a set deadline, for which, according to the government's assessment, there are particularly justified reasons. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – 37, the abstentions – no, 12 of the 173 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the early entry into force of this law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 37 abstentions – there is no vote, 10 of the 174 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We move to a vote on proposals for a law on the approval of international contracts. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 7 to 10 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the State Financial Credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia I am putting the proposal for a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 42 out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW FOR THE SERVANT BOOKING PROGRAMME OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE DECLARATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE CENTRAL SERBIA IN SERBIA III EXPERT OF THE 46,000,000 EUROS BETWEEN KFW, FRANKFURT OF MAIN AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I am putting to vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan for the Water Supply and Water Management Programme in the Mid-sized municipalities of Serbia III in the amount of up to 46,000,000 euros between KfW, Frankfurt on May and the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted 40 out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE REGION CONVENTION ON THE PANS-EU-MEDITERRANIC PREFERENCE RULES ON ORIGIN I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules on origin, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstention – voted 30 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of the Council on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to income tax I place on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstention – voted 30 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF MEMBER STATES MEMBER STATE MEMBER STATES I am putting to the vote Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 out of the 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has made a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move on to the National Assembly's decision on violations of the Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you that of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10. The Rules of Procedure, according to which and if there is an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, or by the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of the vote. National MP Jovan Palalić, at a session of 22 May 2013 at 12:30 p.m., pointed to injuries. 27, 86, paragraphs 2 and 167. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 160 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Ivan Andric, at a session on 22 May 2013 at 12.35 p.m., pointed to injuries. 27, 108 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 158 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Bojan Đuric, at a session on 22 May 2013 at 12.38 pm, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session of 22 May 2013 at 13.00 hours, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vesna Marjanovic, at a session of 27 May 2013 at 17.15 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nada Kolundžija, at a session of 28 May 2013 at 15.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, at a session on 28 May 2013 at 16.55 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 27 and164. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session of 28 May 2013 at 16.57 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session of 28 May 2013 at 17.42 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session of 28 May 2013 at 17.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. As our regular session ends today, please welcome the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice")
