ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24087	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but primarily Serbian citizens, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 88, which says the National Assembly president opens a session of the National Assembly and, based on official records of the presence of all MPs, finds the number of MPs. At the same time, article 87 says that meetings of the National Assembly begin at 10.00 p.m. We are again witnessing the incomprehensible obstruction of parliamentary work by the parliamentary majority, unrecorded in parliamentary practice. I don't understand what kind of economic measures you're talking about when you can't get to work at 10:00? In doing so, the chairman and his entire parliamentary group arrived in the O.R. on time. They were waiting for you from SNS to have mercy to give the quorum at 10.20 hours, so we could start working. I really don't understand how long we're going to tolerate this obstruction of parliamentary work? This parliament of Serbia has not remembered. Please, Mr. Arsenović, you are a valuable, thorough man and I ask you to influence the parliamentary majority to secure the quorum at 10.00. We're here to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24088	The president of the National Assembly is officially absent. It was therefore understandable to replace him with one of the vice presidents. As for the time of the beginning, I can only support you and I think we should try to start working at the time we failed. However, the practice is that people are a little late and yet we started in some reasonable time. So you can ask us to come forward on Voting Day? All right, we'll get back to you. We're going back to work. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dusan Obradović, Ivan Jovanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panic, Maja Vidinović, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović and Zoran Babic. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic withdrew the amendments in writing to Article 2. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Obradović, Ivan Jovanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panic and Maja Vidinović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24089	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the principle debate, I spoke, and so did my colleagues from the DS, why do we think we should delete this Article 1 or why we are against the introduction of this higher education institution, the establishment of this institution, which is three years old for training engineers for national security at the BIA. One of the reasons I pointed out yesterday, but today I have the need to talk about it again is the fact that at the University of Belgrade, the Faculty of Security, we are already studying more than 2,000 students who acquire knowledge from the field of national security, that we also have study programmes at the Criminal and Police Academy, which is already part of the system of higher education, and I am really surprised by the government's insistence on establishing another higher education institution. A team before we look at it as part of yesterday's announced austerity measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia. From this government's behaviour, it turns out everyone needs to be spared just not by the state. So we're going to cut salaries to doctors, teachers, teachers, but no, we're not going to say "no" to BIA, that's where we're going to hire people, that's where we're going to finance profession studies for which some kind of education can already be obtained at existing higher education institutions. I'm not surprised the government refused our amendment. The government actually wants these amendments to the law to cover its illegal behaviour in the last six months, because it has already established this higher education institution, students are enrolled, these studies are already being funded. It's from the budget reserve, though. When something is financed from the budget reserve, it means that there was no basis in the law for it to be part of the budget where it belongs, for example, from the positions of higher education. So today, I need to legalise the illegal behaviour of the government, and I would find it interesting to have the DRI's opinion on this funding of something six months, which had no foothold in any law that is currently in force in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24090	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24091	Honored chairman, respected ministers and colleagues from the ministry, respected MPs, MPs and citizens of Serbia. The reason why we of the DS have submitted an amendment to this article and have requested the removal of the establishment of the Academy of Security is in fact in the fact that it is inadmissible to introduce such a higher education institution as the Academy of Security, given that in international practice in democratic societies and societies we seek, there is no higher education institution that deals with such issues. In serious societies, people who enter security structures are educated in a wide range of directions and objects, have a variety of professions and are then recruited, trained and trained by the service and trained. So, I would ask that we be told what countries that have established a security academy in this sense, where it is also proposed in this law that administrative supervision, so the transparency of the functioning of this school is not done by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, but the administrative supervision and control of the implementation of the programme is being removed from the Ministry of Education, so transparency is being destroyed, what this higher education institution is doing is being covered up and entrusted to the authorities of the state dealing with security. Well. BIA is entrusted, administrative supervision is entrusted to the Ministry of Defence, and administrative supervision is entrusted to the Ministry of the Interior. I ask you to tell me in which country is such a practice and whether countries are the kind of form we seek in terms of democracy? Furthermore, the reason we tabled a proposal to delete this member of the Security Academy is also a formal reason. So we wouldn't mind if the public had made a statement about this proposal, that this proposal had passed a public debate, that the professional public had the opportunity to say what they thought about the establishment of a school like this. On the other hand, we've been put in a situation where this kind of solution is proposed to us at a small door, to be camouflaged, and to be obliterated by November's demands. So, I ask you to show us in the future at least so much respect in this house, and also respect for the citizens of Serbia to be aware of those provisions that are made in this House. The next time you propose these big cuts, have enough honesty to inform the public about it, not to introduce something called the Security Academy to a small door like this, and to trust administrative surveillance with secret security services. I also have against the fact that the number of public sector employees is increasing, which also seems to be this proposed law. For this reason, I am sure of what I am saying, because the Ministry of Finance and the new Minister Lazar Krstic gave a positive opinion on the establishment of this academy and gave a positive opinion that the academy is set up as a new indirect budgetary user. So if I'm wrong, please deny me. If I'm right, please explain to the citizens of Serbia why you brought austerity measures yesterday, where you reduce the salaries of people working in education, people working in Serbia's healthcare system, and on the other hand, you increase the number of employees by establishing a new higher education facility for the needs of secret services in the Serbian state. You, dear colleagues from the ruling opposition, have reduced the work of the National Assembly to very low branches and we have been put into a situation to discuss formally completely and casually, because you have forced us to practice the government's work in April of this year, in the past six months, we should now legalise in this Parliament. As my colleague Lucic said, today we are in a position to legalise the illegal work of the Government, that something that has been working for six months, we are legalizing today, and we are passing a law that will cover retroactively the functioning of the security academy, and I want to remind you that you have provided over nine million dinars from the underground reserve for the functioning of the academy this year, and in the next financial year the total amount of financial resources for the needs of the Security Academy will be 36 million 230 thousand dinars, and for 2015 39 million 930 thousand dinars. Is that the way you're saving and is that how you explain the measures you took yesterday? Please, for the sake of Serbian citizens, that your words are justified by works, that you are out of demagogy and that you offer us something that can truly be justified. Don't reduce, if you really want to cut budget spending, then I urge you to accept the amendment to delete the establishment of a security academy and thus reduce the number of public sector employees and prove that you really mean what you explained yesterday at an open session of the government. There will come a time when what each of us is doing will be valued so that at some point the citizens of Serbia will realize that what you have to offer is actually a big nothing and that we will have to correct again what you did during the 1990s, because you have actually brought this country to a beggar stick and you have reversed institutions during the 1990s when you were in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24092	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24093	Dear Minister, I would like to show a little more mercy to you, because you are the new minister who comes to the Assembly for the first time, but unfortunately you have begun this mandate by promising reforms in the education system that we need so much, and you have come before us with a deep anti-reform law and that is what is important today. I think that at the moment the country enters negotiations with the EU and swears that it is ready for reforms in all sectors, I fear we will never enter them unless we reform education. The holes we have in the education system show up in every sector today, because this has become due to it, a society without value and a society without knowledge. We can't swear on a society of high-tech, knowledge society, society of accomplishments, and that the cheapest demagogy falls not only on our promises, but on the laws we passed six months ago. We can't come and say, you said the ministers, famous 60 points, and one day we'll get there. That's what it says, it could be interpreted like that, you had the best intention, that neither our students in 2005 nor our teachers were capable of such achievements as everyone in Europe. I fear they are capable of the same, but we are not able to establish a system of education, to be such that the same scales are the same criteria for everyone, and for this society that strives towards the European. Instead, in order to enlist all students, we come today, cancel the requirements that we have set before us, facilitate the criteria, worry, as it is so nice to say, all for students and their future. I'm afraid we're all working against them, helping them to get to the position they're going to, with the shortcuts with poor education and bad knowledge. So, we're proposing to them today a law that says that because of the economic situation and the care of students they'll have a chance to score fewer points in a year, and at the same time we'll force them that both the current and the heating they have to pay, both the buns and the breakfast and the Studenic Home will be more expensive than yesterday, but only if we reduce the level of knowledge to them will be easier. Anything else that's expensive and inaccessible, so a simple textbook and a computer that we're going to raise taxes on can do that, but we're going to make it easier for them if we cut the level of knowledge. On the other hand, we explain to them that education is expensive, and we're introducing another higher education institution where I'm most concerned about it is not the essence of a higher education institution that is going to be trained by spies and that this is how you set up the Academy of Painting for me would personally be a problem because there are unclear criteria for who is going to educate them, which is what officials are going to educate officials, which is going to be schooled by kids, spies. Is that the education system we're fighting for or do we want the best schools to be? If we add another higher education institution, suppose we introduce it because there is no such profile and we need even better personnel that this Belgrade University and others cannot educate, and we with these, especially with amendments adopted, introduce another higher education institution that will educate illiterate and mediocre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24094	Just before I give my word, I have to remind the MPs that we've been discussing this law and having a principle debate. I ask you, however, to leave out the principle debate now and focus on the amendment you have submitted. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's impossible to discuss the amendment without looking back a little on the general context that's changed quite a bit since yesterday, I think, and you need to adapt the laws to this context. So, before us is the DS proposal and I absolutely support it and the LDP supports it to take this off the agenda, to put this as a special point in the debate because a whole series of procedural mistakes that actually this adoption of our vote today devises on the one hand, and on the other hand, the question of the legality of our decision can be asked. There is no dispute that some specific knowledge is needed and necessary for people who are concerned with national security, but whether it must be done to a newly established institution that will not only be a teaching institution, but we know that every institution has a tendency to expand, and I expect that this institution will grow into a huge, tropical and expensive institution where there will be at least a question of what knowledge is being obtained, but it will be a question of who is being employed as auxiliary staff or as some technical type of assistance. All this is happening the moment the government presented its new austerity measures. The main victims' savings measures include the Ministry of Education and Technological Development and the Ministry of Culture. So I have no doubt that funding this facility will be able to be provided from an additional 2% of the VAT that goes to textbooks and the purchase of teaching funds and the purchase of computers and computer equipment. I'm sure these two jobs will cover that money, and if that's in line with the policy that this government is propagating, and that we want here, we've been filled with sweet words about students, about the quality of education, about education as the key foundation of any relevant and long-term change. I would expect that those who have proposed this law, and as far as I understand from today's meeting on the board, it has since last called upon the adopted idea and implemented and apparently implemented that education. For 30 students, a new educational institution is formed, a higher education institution, 30 students. Is it impossible to build an academic program within the already existing colleges, or what they're called, colleges? So, I would expect those who have supported this law in a new context to think about the consequences of this, to say, inflation of new institutions and whether this is in line with the new propaganda policy they advocate and to show at that point a kind of maturity and responsibility and say – this was fine by yesterday, but in the new context this is no longer okay. So, I call upon all those who will vote in favour of this request, to defeat their fear of institutions that actually vote either at dawn or caution towards the BIA and other organisations and institutions that deal with national security and deny them one right that I do not think absolutely belong to them at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24096	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24097	Thank you. It's really amazing that we're listening to this kind of analysis of the need to make such an amendment. It's first-class dilettantism and first-class dilettance. I am truly fascinated by the DS MPs who have dared to report and defend such an amendment in this way, it is indeed dilettaneous. Before that, you should have checked, the dilettante is not an offensive expression if you're going to advertise the Rules of Procedure, it just marks those who are dealing in an amateur way with anything. You don't have to advertise at all right now, how nice these Rules of Procedures are to the MPs and to the dilettantes. Now you see, I didn't understand at all why you didn't consult with one of your truly extraordinary members, whom I respect as a member of my committee, the committee I chair, Mr. Sutanovec? We were visiting BIA about July 2nd this year and Mr. Sutanovac as well as other numerous members of the opposition were on a supervised visit, and there was an educational visit, preceded by BIA. One of the things that Mr. Nebojsa Rodic, Mr. Nebojsa Rodic, presented to the MPs at the time was the establishment of a proposal for the establishment of the National Security Academy. He gave us reasons and arguments that made us board members, including your member who doesn't know if he's in the O.R., I really don't like to mention anyone who's not here, but I just have to call because he's a member of your MP club, he's made very positive and constructive remarks, not only objections but also questions and findings about the need to set up this academy, especially since he was on high duty in the area of national security during the previous period, so I thought, among other things, that you were worthy of the position of a man who was the defence minister, one of the most important ministers in the government that you led. I thought that was normal. On the other hand, I'd expect, since you're a serious parliamentary group that Mr. Sutanovac is on that occasion, I'm really not saying anything, really affirmatively speaking in it right now, I'd expect that he has made such serious views and such a serious argument that, when I say seriously, under the circumstances, you've brought forth today for the establishment of the National Security Academy. I guess he's one of the people who knows a lot about it in your MP group, and I really thought I'd hear something from what he was saying at the time when he was visiting the BIA. I didn't realize it was such a problem at all. Furthermore, the story itself about the Academy of National Security, which is educated by the government's regulation as a higher school institution, specializes in, quote, performing higher education in the area of national security. I must say, it's not the only higher education facility that specializes in certain programs. I'll remind you there's a military academy, there's a crime-police academy. As chairman of the Committee, I fully support it, and I repeat, the members of the Committee have come to visit the BIA, and I welcome the establishment and work of this academy, respecting the specificities of this profession. Unlike those who said spies are training spies, I'm really sorry that in this way, otherwise, a spy, did you want to use in a pessimistic sense, is that a pessimistic expression for those people who really have a very difficult and responsible job, which refers to the protection of national security in the broadest sense that national security means today, do you treat them that way? If you treat them this way, I really invite you to one of the open sessions of the Security Control Committee, to see what kind of people it is and that it is indeed one of the elites of this society in terms of education and commitment and patriotism towards their country and towards all of us as citizens. I'm really embarrassed by the way you talk about people who deal with national security. Okay, that's probably an indicator of one general direction, one of the magistrateal pathways of your policy, which you said was for a time leading Serbia in the right direction. Here, we see how she led Serbia in such a way that today, after a year and a half of the election, we have to take care of all the catastrophic ones, I'm not going to use some difficult expression to not be called here for some hard words, the things you've done in the previous period. If you don't think the Security Academy is an institution of particular interest... (President: Mrs Joksimovic, just a moment, please. Please don't speak to the MPs. And who are we talking to, I'm sorry? (President: You speak in the Assembly, about the amendment. I'm speaking to a group of MPs, I'm sorry, please. Mr. Chairman, please concentrate and listen carefully to how I address the MPs. So, at this academy, among other things, there will be a study of operating techniques, methods of working with a living source, please listen carefully, this should show what a dilettante, an operating technique, a method of working with a living source, psychology in operational work. Psychology in operational work, it's for these spies, as the ignorant call them, who don't study at any of the colleges that you mention. I'll point out, since someone asked, you're obviously not informed that the academy is, in fact, the correct name, the FBI's most prestigious national security education institution in the United States. On the other hand, as one company, which we can also mention here, a diplomatic academy was founded 10 years ago at the Foreign Ministry. There was no SNS in power back then. I then, as a student of political science and direction for international relations, thought she was unnecessary. You know, special areas of life, such as diplomacy and national security, carry one specific and institutional culture and require a special socialisation within institutions and, and how it makes sense to establish academias for such specific areas and fields of action in the state administration. The way it was done, I didn't see at any point that any provision or procedure that would define the frameworks of a higher education institution and the results that students, or those who study in this way, are really in breach of any provision or procedure that would define the frameworks of work of a higher education institution, and I hope that they will be at full capacity and to the fullest extent in the service of their country in the best way, and not in the way that you represent and what is really an indicator of one, I don't really know which word to use, but it seems to me to be quite unworthy in the right way of perception of society in which we live and the need of the future. But it's already the responsibility of your political thinking and you can move on with it. I believe it will go, certainly, in favour of those who think well of their country, above all SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24098	I remain in the position that the minister is in charge of defending the law, that every MP has the right to present his view of this law, positively or negatively, without the address of an MP, an MP. That's how the Rules of Procedure is foreseen. Therefore, please, you all have the right both in a positive sense and in a negative sense to talk about the amendment, but without directly speaking to the MP. So in order, first, then I'll cancel out the list. First, Srdjan Milivojevic, Dr Dragoljub Micunovic, Srdjan Mikovic, Janko Veselinovic and Momir Stojanovic. Now I'm going to cancel the list, so sign up for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, first Borislav Stefanovic and then Miljenko Dereta.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24099	Mr. Chairman, article 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. You had to react, not because some fellow Members call dilettantes when they propose an amendment, which is their constitutional, legal and business law, but which makes it as if it were here before us a representative of the executive government, who came from the BIA, to defend the BIA from the Assembly, in which he is an MP. Our MP, chairman of the Committee, defends the BIA and security system from fellow MPs who submit an amendment to the fact that we don't get cowardly eggs from all the citizens of this country and our education system. When we point that out, it's wrong and let's talk about what the DS has done to Serbia in recent years, I don't know how many years. Let's talk about what they've done to Serbia since the '90s. (President: Please speak only of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) The injury of the Rules of Procedure is that It's not a replica. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: It is a replica.]] That's all it's gonna be. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is that the MP is in an offensive way, using a colloquial term which, in itself, is not offensive, but is offensive when placed in the context of the submission of amendments. If we've submitted the amendment, in her opinion, we're dilettantes. That's where you have to react. You can't let her give us a lecture on why we shouldn't do things like this, because we don't understand it, and she learned it at doctoral studies in big Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24100	The word has been made by the People's MP Miljenko Derret, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24101	They've been injured. 107th and 27th. So I'd like to ask you to level the criteria. When using the word dilettante, it was used for the first time in this assembly when it was used by the president of our MP group, Cedomir Jovanovic, speaking of the first deputy prime minister's competences for security issues. That's why he got the warning and his word was taken away. Then we tried to explain, using Vujaklia's dictionary, that it's actually not offensive if it's used in a context that's not offensive. What was offensive in this exhibit by the ruling coalition is, among other things, what she called ignorants. So it's absolutely offensive and you had to react to it. I ask you to make a deal in the future whether the word dilettante is acceptable, because then we will be very often honored by that word, or she is offensive and deserves a reminder. If that's offensive, I ask you to be condescending in that, then for multiple use of that word, punish the lady multiplely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24102	The term dilettante, whether it's offensive or not, I don't think I can interpret it, and I don't want to interpret it. I'm sure it depends a lot on what context it's said in. That's the way to look at it. I concluded that she had no intention of insulting anyone, but simply spoke of the need to supplement this law, as she did. But you have the right to plead in voting day. In voting day, we'll come forward. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24103	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting for article 109 and for article 107. I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it is clearly stated in article 109 that the reminder is given to the MP if he uses offensive expressions. The fact that you believe that the word “diletante ” in the congregation speaker is not an offensive term, you are introducing new rules in this congregation. What, then, would be an offensive expression if colleagues were to address one another in this way? The Serbian Progressive Party, we know, is always using an alibi policy today instead of talking about the subject, and today it is on the agenda of the law on amendments to the Higher Education Act, where we are talking about relief for students in obtaining the properties of a budget student, we are talking about the MPs of a particular party being diletaries. You're going over it without warning. Are you afraid of the above-mentioned MPs, former editors-in-chief of the "Greater Serbia" list, or are you afraid as MPs whose President is Mr. Vukic, so you must not give her a warning. I'm sure you'd give me or any of your colleagues a reminder and you and the chairman in this assembly. So this is a dictatorship at work. You're scared.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24104	I don't know how to prove I'm not afraid. Please don't. There have been so many times that I should have said a note, so I didn't say it. I'm trying to have some criteria. Only when an MP, as they say, stray, only then. It's my only standard. I did not interpret the word “diletant” in a positive or negative sense. I don't want to take any views on it and the really term "diletante" really depends on what context it says. You have the right to plead in voting day. Do you want to make a statement? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. ) All right, we'll come out in the voting day. The word has been made by MP Zarko Korac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24105	Article 107. I just wanted to say it's not worth talking to in this way. The fact that someone is asking for a higher school that has practically already started working and was established without public discussion. It is common when universities and any higher education institution are established to organise a public debate. Of course, the argument could be that it's working...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24106	Mr. Korach, have you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24107	Yeah, come on, I'll say it right now. I think insulting people who dispute... And our MP group has asked to be deleted, so that this bill is not packaged in this way, that we have two completely different things. It's obviously about education, but it's about two really different things. Instead of us who want to vote in favour of increasing the number of test deadlines and reducing the points needed for enrolment, and we have explained this in detail with the time we had as a parliamentary group, you are putting us in a position to vote for the establishment of a higher school which, as you might say, contradicts the character of education at all. We don't know which was the immediate need, why it was inserted between the basic and the middle.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24108	I don't see what the injury is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24109	The way it's said to disqualify itself. He's got rights negative, of course he's got a negative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24110	I understand what you're saying, but I don't understand what the Rules of Procedure has been hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24111	The Rules of Procedure have been broken in the way people propose to delete a member of the law. I hope this sentence is clear to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24112	Thank you. I really didn't understand. I don't think he's hurt in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24113	I'm not asking us to make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24114	Okay. The word is by the messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, by the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24115	I'm the one who picked up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24116	Mrs. Lucic has been reported, but she has no right to reply. She didn't call you personally. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24117	Mr. Chairman, I believe that you are already in violation of the provisions of article 27 on several occasions. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. To the side that you've given qualifications for all those you've punished in time, that they've strayed, whether they're telling the truth or whether they've quoted the first vice president of the government, but then you've punished for telling the truth that the BIA gave a warrant for 89 charges. Well, we probably shouldn't say that, otherwise we're being punished. In any case, if you are properly applying the Rules of Procedure, every applicant of the amendment has the right to respond, because he is the proponent of what we decide. This moment is under discussion about an amendment which, among other things, was filed by Mrs. Lucic and explained it. If anyone has given any opinion on the amendment, and there has been a speech on the amendment, it is normal that, as a representative of the Government, when responding to the bill and a representative of the amendment has the right to respond. It's in the Rules of Procedure. So don't let everyone speak within the framework, it should even not be limited time, but come on, let's make it two minutes on the replica. At this point, Mrs. Lucic is the amendment promoter, one of the proposings, she has the right to explain as long as necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24118	I'll give Mrs. Lucic's word, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24119	Thank you. I answered because I'm next to my colleagues the MP who dared to submit an amendment to the bill. I am the dictator of a colleague who thinks we should own, and I don't know what courage it is to dare to submit the amendment, because I was present here as an MP when the minister of justice threatens MPs with criminal responsibility. I was an MP for the National Assembly of Serbia and in the 1990s. The two parties that are ruling today and make up the majority were then. When an MP of the DS dared to say something, he was a traitor. Today, the treasonous policy towards Serbia's modernisation and Europeanisation is being led by the ruling coalition of the two parties, but they cannot function without enemies. They are now neither NATO nor the EU. Now it's DS. Whatever we do, we say, it has to be criminalized. Be careful, it's also a crime to submit an amendment. Criticizing the government's measures is a shame. In such a democratic order today, we reform and modernise Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24120	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic, a replica. I didn't give Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic a replica on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now she has the right to replicate Mrs. Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24121	I'm sorry, so I guess I'm entitled to at least four replicas? (President: No. I don't. That's too bad. Let's see what Mr. President of the Parliament Group says first. I don't even know whose president you are? He says I was definitely... (The Democratic Party's emissaries are getting from the post. ( b) Can you warn the MPs of the people? I know they're in a mood and I can see they're in a good mood, but they probably won't be in such a good mood by the end of the session. Mr. Stefanovic, here, I will call him to have the right to a replica, says he is an offensive term dilettante. I have to tell you next. (The Democratic Party's emissaries are getting from the post. ( b) Can you calm the messengers of the people, for I can't hear myself? Thank you. So the dilettante means "unprofessional," "amateur," or "laik." I've told myself more than once in certain areas that I'm a dilettante and layman and that for that reason, with a fence for my own limits of knowledge in a particular area, I can't be sure. In case of colloquial use of the diletent term, it shall be described in a non-structive, incorrect, incorrect or superficial way. The arguments used by the MPs of the Democratic Party who have submitted this amendment may be qualified as irregular, unprofessional or superficial action in the submission of the amendment. If that's not clear, if that's also an insult to the person and the right to know, as one of the MPs here said -- she dared to submit the amendment, not because of some courage, right, she dared, but because of the lack of knowledge and that, too, is not courage. What are you afraid of? You're a people's messenger like me. What kind of argument is that? Secondly, they say -- I was the editor of "The Great Serbia", the main and the responsible. Imagine, please, I was the deputy editor and I sign every text that I wrote and then I'm always behind my words absolutely because unlike you and most of you, I always thought for myself. Well, these texts have fallen off that highway line of the then Serbian Radical Party, and so proudly I can be consistent, unlike you. I don't have a problem with that at all, because I know people remember for a long time. (President: Time.) If there's one more thing I can say? Dilentatism...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24122	Time, Mrs. Joksimovic. I need to remind you of Article 107(2). At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to the other People’s Parliament, to use offensive expressions, or to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. I'm only talking about this first part of direct address. Please, if you want us to develop an unconstructive atmosphere here right now, unpleasant, you can go on or take a break. I'm very uncomfortable, I have to tell you. (Jadranka Joksimovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Jadranka Joksimovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24123	I declare breach of Rules of Procedure Article 109(4) of the Rules of Procedure. "If a speaker interrupts or throws away a speaker, or interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech." You were supposed to give a warning to the MPs who kept throwing my replicas, yelling, rudely and inappropriately addressed the intonation that significantly disturbed me in my presentation. Please give a warning to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24124	Please, I don't accept any suggestions about how the chairman behaves. To whom, and when I speak the replica, I think it's the President's matter. Please don't put pressure on me in that sense. You may ask, if you consider the Rules of Procedure injured, that in the day of the vote we make a statement about him. Jadranka, are you asking us to come forward in voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24125	Aren't you going to warn them?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24126	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24127	I'm looking then.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24128	National MP Zoran Babic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24129	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am sorry that you are present with such things and once rape of democracy, but what is the fact that there is no more political option in Serbia and no political party that is a sacred cow. When the demystification of that sacred cow is performed, it is immediately observed that we have entered the dictatorship. The dictatorship is what was in previous councils, when in four years, one hand’s fingers could count how many times a replica in this House of the National Assembly was allowed, how many times it was allowed to appear in the Rules of Procedure without risking a reminder or a distance from the session. I think the dictatorship is an attempt by fellow Members of Parliament to pressure this house against allowing a colleague to talk about the amendment. No one here has said that they must not or should not refer the amendment to the congregation procedure. As you understand, or as you wish to understand, it's really none of my business. I've followed closely everything that's happened in the past tens of minutes. No one said - you can't stand the amendment. My colleague Joksimovic can rightly ask for expertise, and I would like my colleagues to convince me of the expertise on security agencies and security structures, and therefore such an amendment and their opinion cannot get an epithet of intricacy, surface and amateurism, but you cannot honor and cannot limit the debate. That time has passed. We left the dictatorship in May 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24130	We're moving on to the amendment debate. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I answered the word. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24131	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I think the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club should have gotten his word before me, but since you gave the word to me, I'm going to tell you a few things about this amendment that you so harshly refuse. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but above all, Serbian citizens, this letter of law in its form, in its essence, and especially in the way it's brought is the best evidence and paradigm that we don't really live in a country of crawling dictatorship. This is proof that Serbia has become a land of galloping dictatorship in which the horsemen of the apocalypse have again saddled fear and re-watered the tree of fear, cherished and maintained to re-emerge as it was in the 1990s. What's wrong with this letter of law, and why is the Democratic Party asking to delete this letter of law? It is no good that you, of the Democratic Party, of free-thinking parties, expect unspeakable obedience to your political experiments and to introduce dictatorship in Serbia. I dared criticise tyranny and dictatorship when tyranny was silenced by silencers. I dared to criticize tyranny and dictatorship and when the fear tree was watered in the blood of Ivan Stambolic and Slavko Djuruvije and the blood of the resistance activists. Well, you don't think I'm gonna keep my mouth shut when you're passing a law like this, where you form a BIA security academy? You're making Praetorian Guards new dictators. It's a sign of dictatorship, if you didn't know. Every dictator wants himself to have his Praetorian guard and wants for himself a nickname that no one has ever had through history – Generalsimus Stalin, King Louis Sun XIV, Marshall Broz, Alec the Great and the others, but I need to tell you a few things about the amendment. You reject the Democratic Party's amendment with incomprehensible ease. You don't even want to discuss him. You honor us for being a dilettante. Personally, in the debate, you told me in principle that as a graduate farm engineer, I don't need to know anything about this. I'm sure I know more than a trained coffee cook from Big Serbia magazine, believe me. I know a lot more. There's something else I need to tell you. I know more than those who go to the BIA to have coffee and take out documents of conversations with any of the MPs. I'm sure I know more about security. When we discussed the law in principle and today, you told us that we were dilettantes and that I, as a graduate agricultural engineer, knew nothing. That's what the engineer told me, who said he didn't know anything either, but he handed over the amendment that was accepted. This speaks enough about the quality of the law and the applicant of the amendment that has been accepted. I have to tell you, every dictatorship begins with an attack at the university. And last time you started a dictatorship in the 1990s with an attack at the university, the most embarrassing law on the university that has been passed since the university existed in Serbia. After that, you brought in another more embarrassing information law. Do I need to remind you who was the creator of this law and the Minister of Information? Alexander Wolfie. You're re-attacking at the university today. What did you do with yesterday's wolf's self-help for Stros Khan and Guzenbauer? First of all, on the salaries of university professors, it's a feature of dictatorship. If you are not aware that you are taking Serbia into dictatorship, listen to the words of the foreign ambassadors you so well refer to. How did he give you a round of applause on the cheeks of Michael Davenport? To conduct investigations exclusively on tabloids, not in the institutions of the system. More red cheeks, unfortunately not of shame, but of the applause you've received. In the end, if this academy of security will be reduced to the principle of "cash&cary", pay and carry, where only the Praetorian Guard of Alec the Great will study and perfect, if in 30 years we will have 900 agents and spies, if each MP will have his Alex Žunić, and those of opposition and three, is it dictatorship or not dictatorship? I very much appreciate the work of the BIA people who have been working on terrorism and organised crime, who have been trying to arrest Stanko Subotic, whom you have returned to the country. Will he be a visiting lecturer at the university? There's so much to tell the students. Obligatory to introduce them a musical and song by Bajaga "The Fall of Government". Finally, when you tell us something about the university and the University Law, I ask you first that you experts, apostles of justice, you knowing people learn how to use the verb form of the word “necessary. ” Not to be – we should have, you should have, because it is someone who seeks to be Serbia's avant-garde. Not to be said – the law is “dono”. For the end, the truth does this political experiment with the introduction of a security academy has no continuity with the previous government. This is the political experiment of the ruling SNS party. It is true that there are no sacred cows in Serbia. They were never there, but the problem is that you turn Serbia into a milk cow to exhale with such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24132	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has never hidden the depth of the crisis we are in, we have never been ashamed of the measures we propose, but we cannot and will not accept the free interpretation of those whom, thank God, the citizens of Serbia have turned their backs in the 2012 campaign of terror and dictatorship. The citizens turned their backs on those who, and when this government formed, said there would be hyperinflation, there would be shortages of bread, milk, nothing, land stopping, collapse, it was over, to whom thank God they didn't trust even now when terror again, with fear trying to return to the paths they couldn't return to. The problem with Stanko Sutotic is not a problem that is returned and introduced into the system institutions to be tried and convicted in the institutions of the system, and I do not want to comment on how or how it will be, because I have no right, but the problem is what Stanko Subotić is going to say to whom he has had to give money in the past 12 years and to pay for the racket. As for some aliases, generalisms, or I don't even know how, in the desire to insult, I don't know who in this country in 12 years they called George Clooney so noblely and so in love, so it didn't bother them. As far as these freedom parties are concerned, the freedoms of the people, this hall is full, and there are some people sitting on the corner and worse, sitting free from the country that got the pedal from the freedom of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24134	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Then the word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24135	From one such pedal, Mr. Babic, you become a party. Not to talk about who's turning pedals now, it's not good-looking. Secondly, I think it's incorrect that we entered this debate in this way. As usual, the ruling party has no idea what to say in a very clear, concrete and professionally asked question by those elected by the citizens, who my God did not or will work at the BIA. We apologize for not being professional to you engineers and others that you saw in May this year and on the inside. I also don't apologize for what we ask and ask for, that you don't make a blanket safe and camouflage over what's normal to come out to meet our students so they can sign up with 48 points for what we're all here for today, by introducing a whole new institution with a completely untrue story. That the same exists in Quantico and the Serbian Foreign Ministry. That's not true. These are courses of a few weeks and are not in the system of national education. If you don't believe us, ask the minister. He'll confirm. What do we do now? It's the kind of conversation we want to have. Explain to us why existing institutions do not meet the needs of the security system. You didn't explain to us except psychology, if I understood correctly, follow-up. Are you going to explain to anyone what surveillance psychology is? Please, do you have any consideration? At least have a little consideration. I'm telling you that what's safe, to express as -- rape democracy is not for this room. I don't think so. Respect this appeal as well as that we should not measure what a dictatorship is, which is not a dictatorship, because it is what every citizen sees today what you are doing in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24136	The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24137	My replica is produced by one elemental logical sylogism. Since "The Great Serbia" is mentioned here, and since I am mentioned as someone who worked in "The Great Serbia", and then one of the MPs said -- we will not be determined by a coffee cook from "The Great Serbia", the basic logical sylogism with two premises of conversation leads to me being a coffee cook. To tell you the truth, I will never consider it an insult. I've never made coffee in my life because I don't drink it. I also respect all coffee chefs and all the people who do their jobs in a fair way and who really have hated social status in a country where the DS would run the country. I'm not ashamed of it, and this is when I greet all the coffee cooks and I really respect them and I appreciate them. I won't be offended that this gentleman here, who I can't even say his name to, has called me that way, but I'm saying, I'm not offended at all. One more thing. Since you tell Mr Stefanovic, if we saw BIA inside in May, we were on a surveillance visit and we got the commendation of all those competent and international institutions and those who follow civilian democratic surveillance over the security sector, you should know that some of your MPs from the opposition were better at getting along than I was on a surveillance visit. That means you've had some, say, intimate contacts with what they are security agencies and which is legitimate. But you can't call those who do their job in a very responsible and fair way. It has not occurred to you in the past 12 years to establish civil and democratic supervision to the extent that it is through parliament and through parliamentary work through committees possible, and now you find some flaws there. Just to tell you about dictatorship and the way dictatorship is introduced through the establishment of such school institutions, the CIA has its "Investage Equedema", Israel has its own Academy of Security, so I guess those countries are dictatorships, too, but tell them already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24138	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24139	Replica. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is legitimate for everyone to recognize whether coffee is a cook in the BIA or somewhere else. I have a high opinion of coffee cooks and waiters. What kind of opinion do you have about waiters you showed the other day when you sent a waiter from the Serbian Parliament out of this assembly, kicked out of work and left without bread because you weren't satisfied with how he served you? I don't mean you, specifically, but your rising MP star. Don't tell us what our relationship to coffee cooks and waiters is. You look at how you treat employees in this congregation. It's a mirror of haughtiness and dictatorship. That's how dictatorship manifests when waiters bother you in the Serbian Parliament. When we talk about other aspects, it's not our skepticism for this academy since yesterday because we don't love you or because we hate you. Whenever you have nothing to say to us, you say we've been overcome by hate. When we told you I could buy diplomas, but not know how to run this country, you told us just that we were overcome by hatred. Our experience of what BIA looked like during your last term is pretty painful, because last time you ruled this country in fear when you possessed fear, do you know what BIA looked like? Have you heard of the Special Operations Unit last time Tomislav Nikolic was deputy prime minister of the federal government and Aleksandar Vukic was Minister of Information? You had a counter where an officer was waiting for you in a police uniform, where you could order the murder of political opponents, independent journalists like Slavko Curuvija, and today without any shame or shame, you chair the commission that investigates the murder of Slavko Curuvija. (President: Time.) There comes our mistrust with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24140	Mr. Milivoevich, and I ask you to take care of the dictionary. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24141	Mr. Chairman, I am advertising a member of 106 who says the speaker can only talk about the agenda point and Article 108 – that it is the order at the session of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly or the Chairman. I'm sorry, we've been listening here for the last half hour who's in charge of the BIA, who's supposed to investigate the murder of Slavko Curuvija, who was editor of "The Great Serbia" and I don't know which magazine. What does that have to do with the agenda? What are we from the DSS, the LDP, the URS and the others who are decent and waiting to talk about the law, watch the class here, the class on the other side? If the point of the story is that they're fighting over how much they've ruined Serbia, tell us to get out, so when you're done with that debate, let's go back to the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24142	Mr. Lapchevic, I fully support you, and we'll be done with the replicas. We're moving on to the amendments. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24143	Some consider this to be a technical amendment issue, but an amendment that seeks to delete such an institution covers reasons why such an institution is not needed. However, this raises much broader questions and apparently requires one interpretation, a public debate on security and secret services in this country. Serbia has a thick tradition of police state. If I tell you that for 55 years my file has been filled with various services that have changed, in this country, the police have had various opportunities to arrest whoever she wanted, to kill whoever she wanted, to drive to the camp she wanted, etc. So we have one painful experience of a country that needs to be free of the police framework. However, this came in response to a recent demonstration of the absence of security in this country. If someone should be cynical, I would say – probably this academy should strengthen our security, so that the next time some citizens announce a gathering, a peaceful gathering, to which they have the right under the law and the Constitution, there is no security, it is uncertain and they cannot be provided with that security. Then there's another academy to be made. I fall into those who have the deepest mistrust in the police, the deepest possible, and that's why I've always wanted to be an MP and never be a government. Police, secret services are particularly suspicious of their citizens. We recently saw that all citizens in America were recorded. They think every citizen is suspicious. Look at millions of dyssias in many police countries, where we also take a very nice place. How many citizens were tapped, controlled, distracted, plotted about their lives, etc. A citizen should have deep mistrust and control of these services. As chairman of parliament, I proposed to the SRJ, I worked on it and built a law on the control of military security services. The president of the commission, unfortunately after the shift of power, became the vice-president of a party that also has successors here and told me – that commission will never meet. When those two unfortunate guards were killed, the committee of this parliament never met to set up a survey committee to investigate it. This brutal murder to hide some of the secret services of those two boys stands on the consciences of both citizens and services, and above all those organizations. How is it possible, on the one hand, that all these services in their coordination agree that they cannot provide one set, that there is no security in this country? Everyone normally boasts his country is safe, guaranteeing everyone's safety. They decided here that I couldn't guarantee security, and then others joined the Pope if he came, he couldn't guarantee his safety. We boast that we can't guarantee security and security as much as you want. At times in a police state some praised by traitors were persecuted by professors, philosophers. What could we have betrayed and which of us could have betrayed? Just classified state security services, because they're the only ones who own secrets. What secret can I say except to discover that in some book some old philosopher said something, and these services that organized it, which were meant to save and protect Yugoslavia, did not preserve it. They split up by different national and other keys and continued their work. Therefore, citizens need to keep an eye on what the police are doing, public and secret in particular. That robbery that they're under security control is always suspicious to me. Whenever someone wants to say it, our colleague wanted it, to be a persistent interior minister, I was terribly against it. It's always suspicious to me, when he wants to dispose of files, secrets, powers, etc. What we are discussing today is a key question of human rights. There's nothing more important or more than safety, than a man's life. And in that case, if we're going to use that term that was problematic here, dilettaneically, the worst thing is that they were dilettantes. Whether to put into account the enormous three volumes of my files, so let people laugh sweetly, there are phone reports, what anyone said on the phone, and when my aunt from America beats me, they think – a U.S. spy, who coded his language, said that, too. And he could push a button in America to see who owns that phone and see if it was an old 90-year-old girl. That was the elite of the service. So, I doubt that service. I would ask that all the services that exist so far be released, so that, on a serious basis, we see under which control the citizens we represent here, so Parliament and others, we see what they do. So secret owners are the most dangerous of all society, and therefore there are, in defense of human rights, all those institutions that represent citizens who seek access to information. You could have noticed that society is developing in that direction, that this information is becoming less and less secret, and we want to do more and more of that. Personal something, and I know what college looks like, etc., which are all ambitions about making some academy now. When, Professor, without a solution, we were kicked out of the Faculty of Philosophy, which, in a uniform, the representatives of the State Security Institute, picked up all the books and pictures from our cabinets, having as robbers robbed cabinets, taken to these institutes, never returned it. I could never, not even as President of Parliament, come to that institute and say -- wait, here are some books valuable to college, bring them back. I don't trust those services. I watched as they participated in the decomposition of the state. Therefore, it cannot enter a small door into the education system. This cannot, especially in this way, be combined with one law that allows students, who otherwise pay a lot of money for their education, which should be free or much cheaper, to make it easier for them to get to those points that allow them free schooling or budgeting, that at that point, one of these difficult laws, and worst of all, is the criteria that apply to other students who have to take admission exams, unlike one group where people, based on their professional experiences, can do so. So, without any big debates or debates, I'm sorry that some colleagues have a problem with having a debate like this, because, for God's sakes, it's a waste of time. We're not wasting any time. This is a question of freedom in this country, a question of what we have declared to be the EU's worth of entry into. Therefore, whether or not they wanted to, there will be a debate on what security in this country looks like, what its institutions look like, the freedom of citizens, as the independence of the judiciary looks like. They'll discuss it. Let's make sure there's as few objections as possible, not jump right now and call on what someone once was. In the end, I'll make you laugh. You would never expect that in Hegel’s book “The Encyclopedia of Philosophy Sciences, ” he says that common sense is very often and ridiculously wrong. When she comes to the citizen's market and she has a suspicion that the pears are a little rotten, which she's going to buy, and then she's going to be okay with -- what, my rotten pears, and your grandmother was going with the French 100 years ago when the French took over here, and she started talking about it. Let's not do it that way. Let us enter into the essence of one problem, and this concerns the human freedoms and control of those services that possess a secret – there is no one to control but parliament. That's why this debate is important. I would like to join Mr Derret's proposal, which is usually the DS proposal, to delete this and to conduct a debate – what they look like and what intelligence services should look like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24144	Please, I gave the order. I'll do it again. Don't answer it for nothing. I wrote it down. The order of reports is: Srdjan Mikovic, Janko Veselinović, Momir Stojanović, Saša Milenić, Ivan Jovanovic, Marko Atlagic, Zarko Koraić, Bozidar Djelic and Olgica Batić. Don't sign up. The new ones can, but these old ones don't need to, because I don't know if anyone's responding to any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or whether they want a replica. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24145	I find this law not sufficiently prepared. I'm trying to measure words because, look, just out of reason, there is no analysis of the effects of the law on one side, this law does not necessarily require an analysis of the effects of the law, since it does not create obligations for economic and other entities. There's no obligation being made for anyone. The law enforcement funds say that nine million 175 thousand have already been given from the current budget reserve, and in the next sentence we have the truth. I repeat again, in the next sentence we obviously have a lie. The total amount of financial resources for the 2014 Academy is 36,230 dinars and 39,930 dinars for 2015. So that's 75,000 dinars in two years. How much does that cost? It costs 75,000 dinars, you wrote it to us. Obviously, the level of surfaceness in this law shows that even in zero, you weren't able to tell us how much it cost. If it really costs 36,230 dinars, let's raise that money, so we don't ask from the current budget reserve, to make it a contribution from the MPs. If it's 36 million, it should be in the bill. About that kind of thing we've been seeing a lot lately. On Friday and Sunday, we discussed a law that practically pushed an unauthorized ministry, the finance ministry, and it was the justice ministry's jurisdiction, and under the law proposed in August of the month. Now I ask the minister – if the Ministry is what proposed to the government by this law, and we see who has come to defend the law, it turns out that the Ministry just doesn't want to do the work of administrative oversight at this higher school facility. You say it yourself – it's not us, but it's the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defense, or I don't know which ministry. I am not sure that this should be done, especially as the Ministry Act is clear and the Ministry Act defines what the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development should do, and this means that it is carrying out administrative supervision in pre-school, primary, secondary and high education. We now interpret this general provision in a special way and in these specific areas it should be done by someone other than the Ministry of Education. Why? Are you afraid of your incompetence or are we going to continue with the practice of doing someone else's work in this country all the time without doing his job? I was punished in this room by warning and fine because I pointed out that the BIA, practically on her account, was brought up with 89 charges of organised crime. I don't mind that the BIA determines the facts and that with these facts it informs the competent authorities, but it can't give a warrant to file charges. We found that between 1620 and 1630 on August 26th, we have stenographic notes, where it was confirmed by the most invited. This confirms that there is no independence of the prosecutor's office in the Republic of Serbia, if that is true, and no one is questioning it. Last time I pointed out that, I was fined, and I repeated the truth that was told from these benches. That's why I suggest that when we consider a certain law, that is, I urge the law to arrive early, to see if all this is right or wrong, whether it should be fixed. Believe me, there are many well-intentioned worlds in the opposition benches that can help you. We adopted the amendment today, which means an integral part of the bill, where there is a provision that the status of teachers and associates, that it is controversial whether it will be full-time at a higher education institution, because in an amendment that has become an integral part of the text of the law, it stands. I'll speak when that member is considered Article 2, but I point to all the inconclusion and inconclusion of this bill. I appeal, let's all do what he's responsible for. Let's let the Ministry of Education exercise administrative oversight, not to build artificial academia and higher education institutions, and that only certain segments of the executive authority have over this practical possibility of influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24146	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24147	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time of the authorised representative. I will try in a few minutes to convince the ruling coalition MPs, primarily SNS and SPS, to vote in favour of this amendment. Why? We ask that these amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which is primarily put into practice to allow students to be on the budget with 48 points, introduce something else entirely. I'll talk about the other one later. About this first one, therefore, all DS MPs will raise both hands to support the proposal that students of the student year can enter with 48 points, because otherwise this would mean a new burden for them, for their families, about 1000 euros a year, which they could not withstand. On the other hand, MPs of the ruling coalition so far, as things stand, intend to put this law on a small door or as cowardly eggs into the establishment of a security academy, which will deal with the education of listening engineers or, as we will call them, as they are still called in the people, I would not even use those words this time, because I want to be convincing enough that you do not vote for your proposal, but for our amendment. Why do I think you should vote for our amendment? Because of the fact that when these measures were adopted yesterday by the government, in fact, I wouldn't say adopted, but made one media kitcherium, in which they threw the papers, laughed ironically over the fate of the citizens, so these measures will make it an obligation for every citizen who buys only a kilo or a pound of bread per month to 70 dinars for this academy. Of each liter of milk, Serbian citizens will give 150 dinars a month for this academy in the future. When they buy meat, they'll put 300 to 400 dinars in the other bank for this new academy a month. Why? It is very clear from the plan of functioning of this academy that part of the government has already been adopted for this year, that it will cost about 85 million dinars for the next two years, including this year. When the Deputy Prime Minister throws out papers and does not allow officials, whom he has also appointed, to travel to Lithuania, I apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the vice-president of the Republic of Serbia does not know which country is chaired by the EU. My apologies on behalf of the DS MPs' club, but Serbian citizens need to know that when they go to the store, they will need to bring money to pay for your experiment with installers for listening devices. Your Honor, I understand your position, you've been here for a month, and I personally think you intend to meet the students. I don't know who wrote you this part of the law. I see that his finalization, the finalization of the bill, was given by Mr Babic, whose amendment you accepted, where the circle of faces that will be able to surrender at that academy, and even those who have good criminal experience, is probably very important for those who listen. So, Minister, I urge you now to consider and accept our amendment, not to impose a new charge on students and their parents. It's enough, I think, that the impose will have on the professors of the university. I believe you're still not sure how this will break the first vice-president of the government's knee and whether this imposition will really be for professors of universities, doctors, judges, prosecutors, etc. Or whoever is stronger will rule out his own. It's usually been that way before. Once again, I call on MPs of the ruling coalition not to vote in favour of the law, i.e. to accept our amendment that would delete provisions on the introduction of this academy that would cost citizens of Serbia and such a low budget of 100 million for the next four years, i.e. 85 million or slightly more for the next three years. More precisely this year, nine million, next year 36 million, 2015 39 million. So it's serious money, gentlemen, MPs from the ruling coalition. Consider accepting our amendment, do not further deepen Serbian citizens with your experiments. Your reasons are an alibi. You're talking about topics that have nothing to do with this law and you're trying to demean MPs who have very responsiblely accessed this issue, very responsiblely. We read, what does that mean, in financial terms, and in terms of security, and in terms of the social order for our country as long as we have this kind of academy that will be a closed circle for people who decide the fates of Serbian citizens. Think about it, this is how we started with the University Act, the Information Act, and so it all started, and we know where you brought us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24148	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24149	Mr. Chairman, I would really like you to convince me what the milk and the price of bread has to do with the laws on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. I've been trying, resisting all this time, but I really couldn't find any connection without you, Mr. Chairman, at least warning the previous speaker to return to the topic and not to continue with this kind of thing with further obstruction of Parliament's work. The measures adopted yesterday by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I sincerely hope that it will be enough for all the depth of the crisis that Serbia is in. The government of the Republic of Serbia is very responsible in front of citizens to measure the depth of the crisis. Unfortunately, however, we constantly find some new obligations we have not made but also acquired, not made, but acquired. That's why I don't understand the apology and the apology, because now and in the future, they won't travel without reason and without the results of that trip. That time is thanks to God behind the Government of the Republic of Serbia and behind us, through the blatant spending of money through hundreds of agencies that were founded, and even the Agency for the Recycling of Accumulators in Subotica, and that's good, and that she spent five and a half billion dinars a year, that's great. It is not the money of the Serbian citizens, it is someone else's money, and it has been poured into the money from recycling. It's okay. But please just enlighten me and explain to me the milk, the agency and the Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24150	Mr. Babic, I completely agree that milk and a lot of things here, that it doesn't matter, but please, you had the right to a replica, as a matter of fact, don't mix my line with the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please simply, because you're putting me in a position to, or I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. So please help me in that sense. You've now had part of the established breach of the Rules of Procedure and the other part has been a replica, so I'm asking for the future. The word has been made by the MP Đuric injures the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24151	Article 27 has been injured. I just want to call Mr. Arsenovic on this violation of the Rules of Procedure that you just confessed to. So, Article 27, along with the road and Article 106. Rules of Procedure. So there's no point in letting you talk for two minutes, dealing with the replica instead of hurting the Rules of Procedure, in this way disrupting the order of those who are very long here, which, if I may say so by the qualifications of people who want to get involved in this debate and impressive. Professor Korać, who is an authorised representative of the LDP, also wants to talk about this point, and then let the topics of the recycling centre in Subotica be opened or I don't know what. Of course, it has direct connections to increase the lower VAT rate since it refers to textbooks that are important for higher education, but to discuss this in the debate. Please, or establish a new rule. You're warning in the back? The Rules of Procedure are a legal act and he has some sanctions. So, those morals, the sense of morality, to leave for some other institutions. I don't think that if someone wants to deal with morals, they shouldn't be in politics, but let's make some basic rules. I understand that many have fascinations with security services but we have too often seen these bad performances of a Balkan spy here in the Assembly. Please, Mr. Arsenovic, seduce the elemental order of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24152	Mr. Djuric, when you respect the Rules of Procedure, I'll understand that. Please, I don't think it's correct that you're asking for elemental things right now until I know what kind of behavior you're in. I'm trying to bring order here. I allow people, someone jumps out. It's interesting one thing, you all support the punishment of another, but when I punish you, it's either a disaster or a reminder. Therefore, you must understand if I apply one archaic to both sides. Take care of it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24153	You've re-injured Article 27. You will be as angry as the other day when Mrs Kolundžija pointed out, but Mr Arsenović, that you must not warn or take away the word to Mr Babic does not give you the right to tell me that you will apply the Rules of Procedure when I respect him. If you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, apply Rule 109 and punish me. I will be very happy to pay that amount of money into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so let this quasi security school that they want to make here, but not in half the vote. So be responsible for the chairman. If you feel that I have injured the Rules of Procedure, implement the procedure laid down in Article 109 very precisely and punish me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24154	That's how I'm gonna treat you in the future, so you know. I have no reason to, and I don't want to convince you whether or not I'm afraid of someone, I don't need to. That's your problem and you think someone's afraid of someone here. I don't think there's any reason for anyone to be afraid of anyone. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, this time you have really violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(2), which says - the MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly that has already been pointed out. This has always been a dilemma with us when several MPs point to the same injury, but this time one MP pointed to the same breach of the Rules of Procedure twice in parallel, and that, apart from the chairman, we didn't have your explanation that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we didn't have any speakers between those two advertisings. Look at the statistics. Therefore, someone who has reported most times for breach of the Rules of Procedure should, in some ways, be an expert on the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, I am surprised at the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 103(2) of the MPs who spoke. I'm more surprised than you've sanctioned it since I know you're liberal and I support it. I especially support when you are liberal towards the opposition because and when I was alone, the opposition bothered me that those who now abuse your tolerance, so they were very restrictive in this matter of applying the Rules of Procedure, and they severely punished us for these injuries. I'm not gonna ask you to get on this. I appreciate your well-intentionedness, but also other colleagues who, by statistics, advertised by the Rules of Procedure don't know how many times, should still have an understanding of your tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24156	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24157	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed after so many of my predecessors, experts in the field of security, a man has a simple hindrance to what he will say about that area. But here's who we raised, trained and directed these spies, as some colleagues call them, to say something about this amendment. Before I say the reasons why such an amendment is unacceptable, I would like to remind you that in the intelligence and security services, in the entire security sector, honest and responsible people work on the very complex security tasks of this country. I would like to remind my fellow MPs that security services are under civil and democratic control. Therefore, all the fears here expressed in the speeches of my predecessors are without argument. I wouldn't look back on the persuasive terming of listening staff training, spy training. It either speaks of an evil intention, or an elemental ignorance of the work of the department and the tasks of the security service. To return to this amendment by which few of my predecessors spoke essentially. What are the reasons this amendment is not acceptable? The first reasons are educational, and the other reasons are safety. If we talk about educational reasons, I will remind you that there are a lot of higher education institutions in Serbia today that are training some of the personnel profiles needed to work in the security sector. But none of these higher education institutions are educated by complete staff who can respond to the work of the Department and the tasks of the Security Service. You're gonna tell me there's a Security Faculty, you're gonna tell me there's some M.O.P. schools. Only military-intelligence and military-security agencies as part of military education have a Centre for the Training of Staff Security Services. What's going on with the BIA that had it until 2000? It happens that persons employed in the BIA are employed as graduate economists, lawyers, as graduate security managers, but none of them are fully trained to carry out tasks and tasks from the safety service work. Security services have some of their own tasks to deal with. All higher education institutions today to list in Serbia, none of them have a complete plan and programme, or their study programme, which deals with all the tasks that services do. Then someone's got to do it. Then it is unacceptable that such a frame comes to the BIA, and that 2000 is denied the existence of a security academy. I am very grateful to Mr Nebojsa Rodic, who launched one of these initiatives, because later I will speak about the security implications of the situation we have in our security education. The services deal with individual specific methods of work. No higher education institution today, which in its study programme has the training of security personnel, deals with any of the methods of working as a security service, and there are more, some of which are specific and some of which are incurring guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens. The services in their work also apply special means of work. It is a specific technique, a specific means that are also not being studied today in any higher education institution, which schools in security. There are several educational reasons why it is necessary to form a safety academy, because its formation will result in a high-level, qualified, qualified fit for the needs of the BIA. We don't have that today. As far as this first education is concerned, it is also a security matter. Ladies and gentlemen, many before me have called for solutions in some EU countries. I will remind you, and I belong to those who have all the laws on intelligence and security systems of leading countries in the world translated and studied during the VBA reform, that both CIA and GND and MI6 and SISMI and DST and FSB and MOSAD and all the leading services in the world today have such higher education institutions. If you don't know that, then, ladies and gentlemen, check it out. We have a situation today that BIA is hiring, as I just said, the finished students of economic, legal, electrical engineering college. You can imagine that such a solution today is a small country, a more serious country. If I were a member by any chance, let's say CIA, I'd also like to install a finished student through employment into the BIA. I'd have a finished agent in the heart of a service that deals with the security of a country. I don't know if you can imagine how many security risks there are in this BIA. I understand the need for the work of my speakers from opposition parties on the need for transparency, and we have begun to mean everything in this country, and what directly destroys the institutions of this country. Here were the words, the reasons for those who have proposed this amendment, why they have accepted, and one is the costs, and the other, because by forming a National Security Academy, they will further collapse the Constitution with guaranteed civil and human rights. I'll tell you that neither one of them is true. First, in order for the Constitution to respect guaranteed human and civil rights, we must be free, and under the general concept of freedom, which means that we must be independent, sovereign and territorial integrity. We must first have freedom in order to respect in such freedom the Constitution guaranteed human and minority rights, because freedom is a prerequisite for everything. You will allow the country's intelligence and security sector to address the country's current and potential security challenges, risks and threats and to prevent negative consequences for the country's security due to such risks and threats. I understand the obsession, the mystification of the role of service in this country, and certainly because of some bad experiences in the past, but today we have services that are under civil and democratic control. In this House a few months ago, I was saying that we were never as a state trying to balance between two basic principles in the intelligence and security sector, which is the principle of legality and the principle of efficiency. We constantly go to encounter solutions that overemphasise legality, which I agree with, but also how often we ignore the principle of efficiency. Today, we are both on monetary separations and on the technological equipment of the SB and on human resources reforms, far below the SB of our size, and as a country, and the service of countries that do not have such security risks, challenges and threats. Last time I spoke, if you say that the United States is the most democratic country in the world today, I will refer you to a member of their law in the SB, which says that it is the right of the President of the United States, that if it considers that national security is compromised in part of the U.S. territory, that it can empower the SB chief, that in an unlimited number it applies the method of secret listening and recording, that is, phone control, listening, whatever you want. You see how important a powerful state attaches importance to its national security to go to knowingly violating basic human and minority rights, to protect sovereignty and territorial integrity, which I do not fully say I agree with, but I will tell you whether we have security challenges, risks and threats, if you want in southern Serbia, if you want in Kosovo, if you want in the Sandzak area, if you want in Vojvodina? What would be the reaction if such a member existed in our Security Service Act? You can imagine. When it comes to monetary redundancies for the formation of this National Security Academy, I'm undermining ladies and gentlemen, that our intelligence and security sector, let me say more closely the intelligence and security services of extremely few funds need from the budget compared to the real needs. That is why, technically, we are very lagging behind other services, and that is why we cannot be more efficient, with the continued potential of the principle of legality. If we don't, I'm going to end this, the necessary harmony between the principles of legality and the principles of efficiency, we're going to have inefficient security services, and we don't need them, and then we won't have to say whether they're acting by law or misusing their powers. I would ask those who have proposed this amendment to understand that this amendment is unacceptable because the real security-information agency today does not have an institution where personnel are trained for the needs of that agency. That's why it's necessary, we can only agree with the distinguished colleagues you throw away, if you think this country doesn't need an intelligence and security sector or infamous security services, then I'll tell you that you don't know how the world works today and with what security challenges and risks and threats this country is exposed to, and they're not small. [[The National MPs of the DS, they're getting from the scene, but you can't hear it.]] So please and I agree that this amendment is unacceptable and I fully support the initiative to form a national security academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24158	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24159	Thank you, Your Honor, I have also asked for a word as a replica, since I am one of the motions of this amendment, unfortunately, you have not given it to me, but I am now going to say what I think and some of the discussions in which the proposings of this amendment have been mentioned. It is sad, Mr. Minister, that you have allowed, with the change in the rights of students, to allow them to enter a budget with a reduced number of points, to have some problem that we have come up with, not only by the guilt of the present, but also by the colleges and those who should have changed the programs, to sort of replace this topic imposed by MPs of the ruling majority, and probably by you, too, as a proposing. I don't understand why it was necessary at this point to impose a subject of a special college that will only educate personnel for security institutions and there is no explanation to justify it. We've heard a lot of concerns about security employees. Apparently, the promoters don't care about them. This is not about employees at all, except those who will somehow have these contracts and teach at that institute. But it certainly concerns yesterday's government measure that reduced their profits. They are also concerned by an increase in the lower tax rate by two percent and will include municipal accounts, as well as accounts for basic life supplies. It is also a topic for security workers, who are really doing hard work, but should not be respected for MPs who cannot find any example, a positive example from the developed world that such an institution, such a college, is involved in the state system of education, except in those systems where there is a deficit of democracy. That's what scares us today in Serbia. To support this, I'll tell you that the American Federal Bureau of Investigation has an academy. There are colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party right. They have an academy that's not in the state education system, an 850-hour academy, or 20 weeks whose diploma can't be used elsewhere except in the agency itself. That also applies to the CIA. It's the same academy. It's just the name of the academy. It's actually a course on which masters and becellors apply, look at the competition there on the site, the competitions are open. Masters and bechelors who have finished the rights, the economy, who have completed those professions that are important, to supplement and get these specific knowledge that is so much talked about here, which are so mystical and significant, suddenly they get on those courses. I think that this solution is being mocked in some way by lecturers and students and by those who have completed the Faculty of Defence and Security, as well as by the Military Academy, and I believe that it is where the quality of staff is educated, that it is well done, and why is this separation being done today? It is clear to me that this happens in the year when a member of the parliamentary group gets a job at the Security and Information Agency. Is that normal in a democratic world? It's not. That is why we from the Democratic Party are warning of what is happening in Serbia. That's why we're worried about all this, that's why we're worried about what's going on, that's why we're worried about whether this MP is going to teach some future students. What are they going to learn from that? Mr. Minister, you were supposed to accept a proposal from the Democratic Party that we gave a few weeks ago, and it concerned the rights of students and the cuts in the number of points needed to enter the budget. He hasn't been accepted for several reasons. One of these reasons is that you also planted this solution today concerning the inclusion of this new academy in Serbia's education system. That shouldn't have been allowed. You're the new minister, you should have shown a minimum of integrity. Unfortunately, MPs who discussed today have again dealt with the Democratic Party, but it will not contribute to a better life in Serbia. Until it explains how they spent five billion in a year, and that Serbia's citizens have no use explaining to us how they spent five billion borrowed, and the citizens are going to have to pay a bigger VAT on basic life supplies tomorrow, so those who have higher incomes than 60,000 will have to be teachers, doctors, to pay a solid tax, because party officials are employed, because we have such officials, and here we see in the BIA, directly from the parliamentary bench, because 20,000 of them from last year in the public sector are asking them to have a salary every month, and that's a minimum of 20 billion, how much this budget costs, and therefore we have to introduce solid measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24160	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24161	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am in general against this amendment, and I will say for what reason, as well as to say that both the Committee on Education and Science rejected this amendment at its session this morning, for reasons why, by establishing this higher education facility for the needs of, as colleagues have said, police or military education or national security, we provide some things that are very important to me at least three, and there are many more. First, the unity of the higher education system in general, we bring into this academy's system. Secondly, what this country needs is a high-school staff of such a type that Momir Stojanovic spoke very nicely for an educational reason and another for a security reason. Third, in other most developed countries of the world, there are such academias. Someone said 850 hours, and those of you who work in colleges, I'm sorry, do you know what 850 hours are, if one college is seventy-year-old. You see, it's a real academy. You can't fool us who work at the university. We know that very well. I'm about to have a very professional conversation. There are competent colleagues here. In order not to go wide, I support everything that Mrs Joksimovic has said in a professional sense, which is run by the Security Committee, in the opinion of opposition MPs. I must point out that this is one of the few committees that delivered the annual report to the MPs and that we even discussed. So, the objections, we heard today, or in the morning, about dictatorship. As a university professor whose profession is close, I won't talk about it. I'll keep it for the department, but, respecting Professor Micunovic, since he's from the DS, I would ask his colleagues to say what a dictatorship is. I recommend to my colleagues the book of our esteemed sociologist, Professor Molnar, the latest, so you can see who he called the dictator in his book, whose party president, who ruled the regulations, etc. Science will say it, let's leave it to science, but let's go back to this part. It's very sad to hear three MPs say we destroyed the state in a year. Gentlemen, only at the Belgrade city level, in four years, public enterprises, four billion, the DRI report. So, to finish, I support this proposal from the government and I'm here to refuse this amendment. Comrades from the DS, once again, I'm telling them, little is it that they have destroyed our present with so much debt, the future of our children, gentlemen, if you had stayed for another year and our roots would have been destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24162	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to say that we should not accept this amendment, to distinguish a few things. One thing is practice, the other thing is essence and the third thing is the issue of European integration. I understand colleagues who speak out of practice, because I'm a witness that security services, say, in Kovacica someone beats up a cop, and then he gets arrested at the SUP in Pancheva, and then he intervenes and that man gets released, it's a bad practice when we talk about security services. However, I understand the point that we have to change that. The question is not whether we need experts, but the question is – what kind of experts do we want? The question arises whether we want to be part of the EU security forces and security services or not? Are we then entering the EU with the idea that we have only some of our own services? I understand those who are fighting for the EU, that they mean the EU as a serious community that co-operates in all fields, which also co-operates in the field of security. For me, it is a fundamental question and I expect that we will get the right answer in practice, that this academy will indeed have good programmes, that it will produce good personnel, that they will work in Serbia's interest, that it will be in the interest of the EU and security in the world. In that sense, I think we should give this a chance to liven up and then talk on the basis of results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24164	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24165	Thank you. We support this amendment, because we find this bill wrong. We assume, even on purpose, even though the ruling majority would certainly have enough votes to pass this special law on the establishment of this new higher education institution. There are very difficult words used here, many topics are open, and I'm just going to say a few words. First, when I asked the question of competence, it's a very awkward question, we're all equal here, we're representatives of citizens, we're not elected by expertise, we're chosen by political criteria. If a criterion of expertise is to be introduced, then almost no one here should talk about many topics, and that would be the collapse of democracy. If it's about my qualification to talk about this, I was a member of the first National Security Council, it wasn't called national, it was a state name, made by late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Also, under the circumstances, he signed all acts on the establishment of the BIA. This government I was in has moved the BIA out of the MUP and turned it into the government institution the way it is in Europe. Then we tried to reform that institution. Here many wonder, they say heavy words have been used. We have reason to use those words when we talk about security services, because we're not talking about the period 1946, 1947, which rarely anyone around here remembers or can talk about, almost everyone here is much younger. We're talking about a period when the National Security Service, as part of the MUP, had an armed unit called the JSO Special Operations Unit or the Red Beret, and part of that unit is responsible for the most serious crimes. It can be said that the Security Service, call what you will, one part of it, the top of it, was killing political opponents. Members of the Serbian President Ivan Stambolic's murder service were convicted of the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. They were no longer members of the M.O.P. back then, but I must remind you that the killer had an act of Colonel M.P. So this all happened 10 years ago, so I have to say that I have another intimate contact with the security service, by having a deeper record, like many opposition people in the 1990s. I have to remind you of something that many have forgotten, they don't remember or don't know, one number of people in state security, former officials after 2000, has been legally convicted because they cut into disks a dozen files, brought out those files, I don't know where they are, including my file. I'm saying all this because our experiences are very bad, which was happening yesterday, and that this service was hired to kill political opponents. One more thing to say, I was honored to be tapped in 2004 with the judge's signature and the service was abused in 2004. The explanation was this time democratic, that I belonged to a group to bring down the constitutional order. It's a service since 2004, less than 10 years ago. Therefore, let us be sensitive to the ministry. That these services have all the states, that's clear. There is not even a more democratic country without such service. There are also Switzerland, Norway, say whatever serious democratic state you want, and you'll see that she has that service. Its tasks are combating terrorism, drug trafficking, etc., not listening to political opponents. I hope that practice has stopped. But that's exactly why people are upset. In this country, the prime minister was killed by former members of the State Security Service. People ask questions about how they get to school and who these people are. Here are the things that are completely justified, defending this amendment. The first is – why is something set up without a public debate? Why was the public debate skipped? If someone has convincing arguments that a higher school like this is needed, which takes very short time and questions whether it has the character of a higher education institution at all. Then with that, you have to go public and say, what are the special needs, that it can't be done again on some course that can last for months. It would probably be desirable to be college-educated people in that service, not just those who work in the so-called. Analysts, but other jobs to do, so they finish extra courses. Why can't someone with high school supplies do that and have extra courses? We didn't have any convincing arguments. We're just told that the institution is going to show up on the budget and it's really a little absurd that we're talking yesterday about how to save the last dollar, and today we're raising some funds, I'm not going to be dealing with demagogy, so let's say that without these funds, the state won't fail, but it's still illogical that you say on one side -- I can't have any more ministers traveling, etc., I don't know whether they've been justified or unwarranted travel, there are both, and now you're starting one institution that's on the budget, without any public debate, without any real explanation. Those are the questions only we've asked here. They are, in my opinion, completely legitimate questions. This is where things get mystified. First, here we heard one argument that is contrary to the idea of education. Education isn't for a job. You can't build a college for a job. You know, when you teach a doctor, that doctor then goes to specializations, specializations, there's science calls, there's masters, there's doctorate, she specializes in later. Here we are now told that we need to educate for this very workplace, with two questions that if it is not in that workplace or leaving that institution, who is going to recognize that education, what are those schooling questions for in the first place? That is, above all, the question of those who will attend such an institution. Here is one-sided what is a course, a practice, a specialization internal, within an institution, raised to the level of one higher school. That was completely unnecessary. At least I didn't get any convincing explanation that this was necessary, that these funds were allocated. By the way, I've said and I repeat, it's already minorly arranged, and that education will be in the Banjica Institute of Security building. It's all over more or less. Even some people who speak here will be lecturers at that school. There's one more thing, at that school they're going to teach, from what we know, people who teach at other colleges. You'll practically borrow professors from FPN, from Law School and some others. Then the question arises – can these colleges organise a course? If you're talking about those narrow specialist skills, some special knowledge, how to set up a microphone, how to sneak around, how to follow, who learn within that service, and everybody learns it, I really don't see that it takes a professor of the university to give a lecture out of it. So if they had to learn more about the legal system, human rights and freedoms, it could have been organized at the Faculty of Security or at some other colleges, postgraduate studies, specialist studies, etc., where people could learn that. Once again, I think this should be separated. That's my main argument. The ruling majority certainly has enough votes to adopt both laws, so that what is our concern for the current state of play with the Bologna process in the higher education system, when we really want to meet students because we think they are working under impossible conditions, that universities and colleges haven't done enough to make it easier for them, both the state and all of us, and now suddenly we get a debate about something quite different, the need to establish a new higher education institution. Higher education institutions are founded, and sometimes they are shut down. Science changes, technology changes, society changes. There'll be a lot of higher schools, colleges. We've had one tendency over the last 20 years to make more schools become colleges, to increase the level of education, to increase the level of education. I asked the question – what happens when someone asks it to be a special college? I was told, "Well, they won't." I don't think that's gonna happen at all. That, of course, is not in sight right now. We have an absurd situation that what is internal education, courses, that suddenly someone wanted it to be some high school, which usually takes a while. All 30 students will be enrolled. We asked a question – was that necessary? No enmity towards the BIA that works in this country, but given the bitter, terrible experience we have with the new institutions, I'm sorry, I've been followed for 10 years, I have a huge record. What was I, an enemy of the state? I was also a National MP and I was sitting in that same congregation...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24166	I'm sorry, I don't know how the microphone went off.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24167	I mean, we sat down Draskovic, the late Djindjic, whoever you want, and we all had files. We lived in such a system. We were the main enemies of the people, we were followed. Professor Micunovic was talking about himself. He's been followed since 1948. We've got letters open, we've been followed, we've been tapped. We were put on microphones under a coffee table when we met, to record conversations we're having at cafes, etc. We have this bitter experience. This was done in the 1990s and, unfortunately, was done in my own case, a group of us, unfortunately with a democratic explanation, which the law democratically allows and with the signing of the judge in 2004. So let me have sensitivity to this subject, even though I was sitting at the Institute of Security at meetings, meeting these people, not those people who follow and listen, they probably ran away from me or apologized to me, still some of them sitting there, the same people who did this to us, but it's about not seeing the need to do this. Once again, the amendment needs to be accepted, it needs to be separated. Yesterday I heard a speech from a statesman. I was interested in it, since it is of economic importance to the whole world, including Serbia, what is happening in America about this possible collapse, or the end of the work of the administration. Then he, President Obama, said at one point to vote, that all those voters, citizens, knew who voted. That's one argument that applies to us here. Now that's on the site. I can tell you, our citizens, when they ask me how anybody voted, I say - go to the site and look. It's been correctly recorded as who voted, for the record. I don't think those who vote to start this, that some big historical... Well, no, but to know who supports or doesn't. This is how you put us in one group. I who want to vote to make it possible for students this year, so that we can change something in the university system from next year or in a year or two, to raise that level to those famous 60 ESPB points, see who voted for what. This way you won't know who voted for what. It'll turn out that I'm voting for the establishment of this. I don't see any need here. We don't have a BIA director right now. No one does that. If there's already a question of some people's safety, why don't we have a director? We've got the Home Secretary, and we should. We have the Secretary of Defense. Why don't we have a BIA director? No explanation, except someone doesn't like the candidates. They're not my candidates, they're his. The question is not asked, but suddenly comes a proposal that is semi-fantomically from that institution that they are looking in fact to establish a higher school which is exclusively something that is in its building, for its employees. It's kind of coming back from the idea of the university. Belgrade University has one tradition many have forgotten. I hope she was adopted by other universities in the country. I don't know if you know, by tradition in the history of Belgrade University, all lectures are open, not exercises, capacity doesn't allow. Tell every young man that he can come to the classroom, tell the professor, according to the tradition of Belgrade University, that as many people as possible will be educated, to learn something – professor, I can attend your class. Can anyone attend this? You will say, "Secretly, it can't." It's also a bit different from the concept of education that it's public. Now we've had the pledoa right here that it's something secret, that we don't need to know. Security services have changed, too. Here, to end, to tell you the truth, I don't know if you know it, but also our country and other countries, our security service has its own representatives in embassies in countries where we have diplomatic and consular representations. So, one man can walk into Skopje to say to our embassy -- I would like to speak to a representative of Serbia's security services. There's a man like that. When we talk about big intelligence, we don't know if it's the only man. Of course he's not the only one, there's someone else we don't know. Our service I hope it knows, but there is a man. In all the embassies, you can go and talk. If that's not classified, who's the representative of the diplomatic office? Then we've got some little mystification and we've been given a lecture here. I have to say, I'm unprofessional, so it looks like psychology, and there's a colleague and colleague of mine in the O.R., and I don't know what kind of surveillance psychology these are? I'm sorry, I didn't hear about that in science. Well, I guess someone's got a little bit of a rivet on the word psychology, but that people are being followed and that they need to know that job, that's what I appreciate. That's what I don't do, and I don't care. I don't know what surveillance psychology is. What kind of big words are these? One more question. Who's going to teach it, a psychologist or a state security officer? Why all this sneezing with big words, etc? You know, he's got that Serbian term for darkened prostate. I don't see why you're doing this. They're courses. They need courses. That's how it was supposed to be done, not starting a higher school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24168	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24169	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, here's what we're discussing today. If someone accidentally turned on the TV and asked the citizens of our country what they're talking about today, hardly who could guess if we were to talk about amendments to the Higher Education Act. It's not because of us, but because of the government's decision to do what she said she was going to do, though extremely silly, we're not going to talk about how you managed to break all the deadlines, so then when you entered the procedure that you don't know how to put this law in the right way and, here we are, we need to law out something that's already already happened in our colleges and that we can enroll students with a smaller number of points. No, today we're discussing a subject that today is not the time or the place to discuss it. Today we discuss first and foremost the question of an academy that wants one element of our society to set up. That's what we've already said in principle. This is all already absurd because, according to the government's decision, on 20 April this year, the institution has already been formed. There's already no respect for this House. Don't tell us everything's okay, because if everything was okay today, they wouldn't be asking Parliament's support to "legate" what you had to, today, admit it, to be done by law, not by government decision. That's the first problem. The first problem is that we see that one very important element of our country is not acting the way it expects all citizens of our country to behave. Where was the problem of having a public debate first, so the law came to parliament, so let's see what the arguments are for and against and then forming a legal one new institution? Who was in such a hurry and why would he call himself an educational monument? What's that for? What's the rush? What was it so long to do in April, May of the month that couldn't wait for October this year? No one gave us an answer to that question. Minister, I'm not sure you're quite qualified to give it to me, because it's clear that the pen in this part of the law was held by someone else, as someone else is holding the pen and for the amendments that enter here. It's just not right. No one can say there shouldn't be any concerns or any questions, because we're not a country where the Secret Service wasn't abused. We are not a country that has lived in a more peaceful part of the world or Europe for the last few decades. I think Professor Micunovic reminded us all that the problems with our country's secret service are not since yesterday. If you want, we can talk about their establishment. There's always been pressure to politicise, but since the end of communism, through the collapse of Yugoslavia's former, up to political reckonings after the five-octobaric changes, we have a serious problem with secret services. In this home we have people who were directly interested not because of their superior activities of the service, but because of their different political opinion. This is not the case in many other parliaments of Europe. I'd even say, unfortunately, we're one big exception at this point. Mr. Chairman, respected ministers and those who have proposed this change, I think it is appropriate that you accept the DS amendment, to conduct a thorough debate on such an important issue, because it is obvious that we today do not have the right answers to very valid, peaceful and normal questions. I'm going to ask a few questions and put out a few concerns. The first question is about the real need to form one such institution. If you think those institutions that were the source of recruiting within the BIA and the rest of our security system should probably start with them and tell them what's wrong, why they're not able to carry out the task. We know that in the last few years when the public open competition was recruited, if I'm not mistaken, 120 young, young and girls, and that among those who have entered the ranks of BIAbio and a generation of the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. Is that bad? We think that's good. Those who know this matter, well-known well-being is increasingly challenging where a large dose of analysis is needed where very wide knowledge is needed. The arguments we heard today about the need to have people teaching them within the institution with specific techniques have, I'm afraid, missed the subject. Let me ask you a very simple thing. Former Chief VBA told us this morning that people from the BIA should put on those who want to work in the BIA about some very specific things secret and some techniques that wouldn't be directed if someone else knew. What if some of the students aren't admitted to the BIA? Isn't that a security risk? We have a young man coming out on the street with the secrets of the BIA and he wants to sell them, not those secrets, but his knowledge. Who? Private intelligence, other people's services? Who will benefit from the experience gained in this way? It seems to me that it will benefit those who shouldn't have that knowledge. One more thing about education. Who can convince us, if we want an open competition and a normal recruitment procedure in the BIA, that those who come from other institutions will really be considered the same way as those who finished this school, those who are already inside, those who already hand over people who work at the BIA? How can those who come from other colleges fight in the same way as that, call it, open competition? This violates equality. Dear Members of the People, it is true that it is important that we discuss this matter, but not in this way, as a cowardly egg that has been planted in one law that we all want to vote for because we want to allow our students to go. Minister, I want you to answer one question - will those who teach at the BIA have a double salary? And one more thing, you were on the run with the finance minister. He said what was proposed yesterday at the government would apply to professors, and you said he wouldn't, so tell us if the professors had less pay or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24170	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24171	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, dear colleagues, I fully understand the fear of certain MPs who have had a very bad experience in the past. I think we should finally put that period behind us and turn to the future and look at a glass that starts to be half full, not half empty. As for this, let's say, high-level vocational school with an agency, or a security agency, I think it's over-needed for a simple reason – technology is progressing. It is very ugly to disavow young people who want to advance in their knowledge, in this way, and to serve their country with honor and honesty, to disavow them in this way and to call future students happy spies, Alex Žunjic and other ugly names. Since this morning's debate, I've gotten the impression, when you say this is one cowardly egg, that it's about forming a secret police formation of 3,000 people, not a high-level institution, a school institution that will belong to Serbia's education system and receive only 30 students a year, much less than a simple reproduction of personnel for the needs of these services. It's not about happy spies, it's about people who will deal with both technological crime and cyber crime, and many other types of crime that will allow for better safety both for our children and for Internet crime and for all our citizens, including MPs of the opposition. There's one other thing I want to tell you. It's very ugly, again I refer to those ugly names and words spoken about various diplomats named Alexa Zunjic, for those people whose names are on the record when you enter the BIA, for their families, I demand a public apology. They've laid down their lives for this country, and you're disabling them in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24172	Thank you. I will read you the order that MPs will receive the word: Marijan Rističević, Maja Vidinović, Suzanne Grubjesic, Zoran Ostojić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Borislav Stefanović, Miljenko Dereta and Mirko Cikiriz. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24173	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am certainly for the Academy of National Security. This country must have quality security services to protect institutions, while being trained enough not to violate basic human rights. Looks like some people are used to official secrets being public and public procurement being secret. In this country, everything has turned around, and from this reverse practice, some think we don't need a national security academy. There's a lot of bad words here about our service. I can say from my 90s experience that there were certainly abuses in the service, especially in the opposition champions, but there were also opposition champions who worked for the service. It is enough to remind me of that artistic name – Socrates, and here, more experienced colleagues will know who it is and how someone in the opposition ranks denuced their own comrades and colleagues. I don't mind if these files open up, even on the contrary, Mr. Chikiriz should certainly know that at the moment they asked to put it on the agenda, I voted for it, but many of us who fought in the 1990s, in 2000, turned the thing, allegedly in our favor, didn't vote for it. It's also interesting that some people know what those files say, so I'm afraid they had a proper connection with those services, allegedly evil, in the '90s. It's also about some special ops unit that's known for its ill, and that's where we'll agree. But, we must admit, we, who in the 1990s were the opposition, in 2000 turned the matter around, have to admit our mistakes. We have to admit that there were ads in front of government institutions -- terrorism is a disease, call a doctor, JSO. The commercial was on billboards in front of the MUP itself until the beginning of 2003, which is worth a government institution. We must admit that it was our failure, which has been held since 2003 and I on my part, since I was then a part of the ruling majority, I confess and share that error with others, because I did not criticise enough as an MP such an appearance that I saw along the boulevards when I came to the National Assembly. I must say the following: God forbid our service has Guantanamo and God forbid our service for security reasons is in practice doing what it learned at its universities and universities of security, and here I mean some countries abroad. I am proud that we do not have such a case of abuse of the security service and such a case of violation of the fundamental human rights. That's why I'm proud of our services, regardless of all the shortcomings they've had, what they haven't done, and now they're doing, what some of the services of highly democratic countries do. So, I think we will agree on that, that we have not had such violations, such coordinated violations, human rights abuses, in this country, whether it's military or civil security. That's why I think we need this National Security Academy for this second segment, to train them as far as their borders are concerned, as long as they can work in the interests of national security, in the protection of institutions, in the prevention of the security of citizens, in the protection of terrorism, etc. They need good training, good lecturers, but they also need teachers in the field of human rights to prevent any possible abuse, which was, not only in the 1990s, but also later. I also agree that Stanko Sobotić Cane should have been the subject of those who train at a school like this, but I didn't ride his plane. As far as security is concerned, it would be interesting what this man has to say about building a cigarette factory in Kragujevac that didn't happen, but it was a common idea. It would be about security, future personnel training at the Security Academy to open the issue of the Fund for the Development of Democracy, that funds, according to his allegations, which should certainly be checked out well twice as in other people, had these funds ended with a party that had long been ruling. That, by the way, violates the country's security issue. If certain persons are transported by his plane, it can also further, and it does not have to collapse security. I'm afraid they may not, and among us may not be, but in some of the councils there were those who were trained in Budapest and St. Stefan from some of the other services that security assessment should be done, as it should be done, so well-trained, that they had practical classes at the Saric Motel. If necessary, there are colleagues here who were certainly as surprised as I was by those two thousand years that something like this could have happened to us, that someone would go to the Charic motel and do what was done. Since the man is not there, I will not mention the name, but I fear that lately, the academy has not been necessary and that some have come to the conclusion that it is enough to be on St. Stefan's, that it is enough to go to the course in Hungary, that it is enough to run to the first side of the embassy and give all the information voluntarily, even without money, to gossip to each other and in such a way, saying about each other, to destroy the authority of the institutions, hence, and the security of the country. So, I think that these times should be behind us, that we should have a National Security Academy, that we certainly need it, that on the South of Serbia, that in terms of KIM, that this will be major security challenges, that we should be innovating and lecturers, and that we should adapt them to the new security situation in our country that threatens to be in the future, given what is happening in the world, given the developments in KIM, given the training that takes place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the various groups that are trained in the territory of the former SFRY, I think that even the lecturers, and that this academy must adapt to the new conditions, that the more the monitoring of political opponents, and the stronger the work on the security of the country in some new way, and that, in fact, the fifth time, I am undermining the human rights of no human beings, and especially political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24174	I won't give you a line, Mr. Milivoevich. You're not directly mentioned. I really can't remember all the discussions, I wasn't in the O.R., so I can't give you the right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24175	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I must immediately fence myself that I am not really an expert in security matters, but I have listened and am impressed by the knowledge of some of my colleagues as well as how well they are informed and how much they know what it says, not only what it says, I am not going in, about the BIA, but to the details of all the work that this agency is doing. I see that it is clear that the National Security Academy will form, but if this academy is already being introduced into Serbia's education system, my question is - why is the Ministry not having administrative supervision over the institution?? What logic does this job not belong to the Ministry of Education? Because administrative supervision of medical schools has no hospital or health ministry, but the Ministry of Education, so the Ministry of Education really should have in front of this scientific institution at least administrative oversight, because it is education for security matters, but still education. What does this have to do with anything? The teaching at the academy is carried out by persons who do not have an academic title, because it does not specify what professional, applicative professional objects are and the question is then raised, or there is a risk that some of the items that fall into scientific names are renamed professional or applicative. That's already happened. We have an example, you ministers certainly know, from philology colleges, where they've hired lecturers who don't have a master's or a doctor's science for art classes, but when they miss their teacher then all of a sudden it becomes, say, a syntax or a translation, all of a sudden it's not science subjects anymore, it's skills. So that danger exists for this academy too, that some of the items that are professional or scientific are transferred to the subject matter of skill. I understand that a doctor of science doesn't have to teach the subject of throwing a knife, but some combat tactics would be expected to have an academic calling. Therefore, I think that in some sublegal act, since it is not possible today, we are discussing amendments, you should find a solution that the Accreditation Commission or the National Council for Higher Education should approve the list of items of skills, that this is something that is minimal in order for this new academic institution to come into life in our education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24176	MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24177	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing amendments to the Law on Higher Education, and we have been talking for hours about BIA and secret services. For what? Because someone is trying to make what all services have as an internal schooling, training, etc. Here you rise to the rank of an academic institution and it's a scandal for me. But the bigger scandal I think is for those who do education, those who teach in colleges, those who get paid yesterday. What's they gonna get? They will get calls from their colleagues who are operatives in secret services and I will explain that this is the essence of this law, not what fellow MP Stojanovic said, that this is a need for service. Everything is the opposite of what counterpart Stojanovic was saying. Services don't get staff by being taught a secret school, which is part of education. No, there are secret schools of a closed type and in all the services from the FBI to our environment, and these are not higher education institutions. Some knowledge and skills are taught there and all the services are trying to pick up the best students and recruit them for the service and train them inside the service to be their job. About cybercrime, the U.S. Secret Service is fighting some Microsoft to get a good student, but certainly what they're going to teach him at the CIA headquarters isn't being taught in college. A colleague, Korać, hit the point when he said education is a public process. People come to listen to classes from exams they don't have in college. What are you students going to do on security clearance? To get in there, he can't. I don't know what's in that building because as a citizen, I can't get in there. So, students and security checks. It's an absolute denial of education. That's why it's completely incomprehensible to me, Mr. Secretary... I don't understand the UDBASKI lobby, they want to get even with academically educated people. We've had various Ministers of Education from Daca Markovic, but you've given cover for what we're talking about today. You suggested to us that BIA's internal school become an academic institution and you qualified to remain remembered as UDBAŠKI Minister of Education. I don't know if it bothers you or if you're proud of it, but I think it's fate for you because you're more responsible than those who push it and who will vote for it tomorrow. You gave cover with your signature. You could have said -- people don't do that, what courses and training when they're an academic institution. After all, there will be no benefits of the secret service from that school or BIA. You know how to recruit. Trained people who show interest. Other secret services question competitions for such people, then train them within the service in the way they train them. Each one has some internal training and education. It's not a high school facility. And you, with your signature, send us here to declare that Secret Service operatives are lecturers, teachers, etc. And that's why I'm saying that's the point. If you carefully read the law, you will see that the law provides for studies, national security and military education to be organised in other universities of law, economic, political science, and what does the law say? In such studies at other colleges, we're not talking about the academy in the BIA building, they can teach people from the service. (President: Time. ) According to the Law on Higher Education, this means that they are equated with teachers. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24178	Next reported is MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24179	How much time is left for my MP group? (President: Three minutes and 36 seconds of the parliamentary group. ) Fellow Members and colleagues, Mr. Minister, at a time of government debt, poverty, unemployment, corruption and crime, pragic syndrome, 30,000 people suffer from it, every day there is a murder in Serbia, when the state cannot ensure the safety of citizens, when the science is invested 0.2% a year from the budget, when the problem of an extremely talented student, Theodore von Burg, comes to us with one such law and we have BIA defenders and those who are against BIA, so citizens will likely interpret what has happened today in the Assembly. It is unacceptable for a law like this, concerning students and their position, to come up with such a proposal. The opposition rightly points to everything that has happened in the past and why it is afraid that a law like this will be passed. I'd like to hear from you what your explanation is about all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24180	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24181	Dear colleagues, I use the time of the parliamentary group, i.e. an authorised representative. What is the fact that we will not get an answer to this question, as well as the National Council, the Enlightenment Council has not given its opinion on the formation of such an institution, such as the fact that it has not been seen in Serbia so far, and it seems to me in any other European country, that the Secret Service is building its academic institution with its staff without academic knowledge, which will teach their people and make their system within the system, beyond any educational, academic control. It's never been seen before, it's inadmissible, the DS can't accept. We ask colleagues to adopt this amendment to the DS, to amend and supplement the Higher Education Act to what we came here for, and that is to meet students about their enrolment. What you gentlemen in power have done is a cowardly egg, to the entire Serbian public, tossing gloves in the face of the academic public, the university, the ministry and the minister of education. So you've made one situation where you're building a system in the system for no reason whatsoever. We have heard things here today from MPs from the ruling party, among other things, that it existed before, that it exists in other countries. That's not true. Gentlemen, I understand you, you're persistently advocating class and college. I realize that with you, it's kind of the same thing. But what you haven't answered, all of you who represent that this amendment is being rejected, which is why Serbia for the first time in 1945, the Republic of Serbia hasn't had a BIA boss in months? Why, if your safety is so much at your heart? Why don't we have a head of security for the first time in this country? Which is why, and are you aware that Mr. Markovic, who's a cop, sits there and can't sign anything, can't do anything? It's a state of our security today, because security is not in the tabloids and it's not in the announcements of arrests on shows, it's in the honorary, operational, professional people who work in the service and who have to do their job. Has anyone come before this assembly to explain it? Nobody. But we're diletters because we're asking you to do something and respect the law, so that this country gets a BIA boss since 1945. Instead, by North Korean model, you're making us a security academy within the Security Service. Nobody did that. To gain academic knowledge on this basis, although we have both the Police Academy and the Faculty of Security and Law and the Faculty of Political Sciences and the Defectology College, so where they've always, always taken the best people to work at the BIA. Are you even aware of what you're doing? How can it occur to someone that this parliament is humiliating to this extent, to put the government's regulation into a law concerning justifiable exposure to our students? Where does the face of these people come from, and where do they get such an idea, to play like that? Then you will say, "Yes, you Democrats, you are against the students. It won't work, gentlemen. Everyone knows what you've done. Everyone knows that at the last minute you brought this law to the Assembly. The minister, not guilty, has found such a condition, has found this provision, his pen, Mr. Djelic, is in the minister's hands and that pen has not seen this member of the law. She didn't see him at all. Do you understand what you're doing? People get up here, they talk about it -- there was a college in Skopje. None of the BIA bosses went to that college, do you know that? Neither Milosevic nor those before Milosevic were ever headed by the university. Don't insult people's intelligence so much. If you think that an BIA operative, to whom every honor can teach something at an academic level that is already missing from other institutions, you have to explain it to us. Not you ministers, but those who thought of it, that brilliant idea. This is playing with the academic structure and future of this country. This is playing with citizens' rights and freedoms. This is playing with a very important service, which is the secret service of a state. This is playing with the Republic of Serbia and you did it today in this assembly. That's why you have to withdraw this member. There is still time, support the DS amendment, let this piece of legislation that will come out of here be decent, justified, legal, constitutional and in the spirit of the time in which we live. Don't let our coursers lead the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24182	Thank you. People's MP Miljenko Deretta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24183	Thank you very much, President. Once again, I will try to call upon the reason of those who will vote for such a law and will not accept an amendment requiring these members to be removed and may be the subject of a special debate. Because this isn't about education anymore, it's about BIA and it's not about the public getting the impression whether or not someone supports BIA, it's about BIA getting an insight into who supports this kind of mockery of education, not a kind of development of education. He intends to turn something that already exists as a training centre, which is controlled, of course, by the civilian control of the Assembly, into something that is an academic institution that he will not be able to control the ministry to which he is transferred, is, of course, paradoxical, not to say that he is against the law. I urge you once again to change your attitude towards this amendment. It's not a shame, it's wisdom to recognize a mistake and change your original attitude. Besides, you as your great virtue, you from the ruling coalition, just keep pointing out that you've changed. Since you've changed into politics, since you've changed, as you say, in political culture, in terms of everything, in attitudes, change your attitude towards this member of the law. Accept something that is reasonable, something that preserves the dignity of education as an institution, and you do not bring a new minister into such a situation that, as Mr. Korac has already told him or a fellow MP, he will be remembered by this law, not by what he may really want to change into the system of education. Please, if you had the courage, the strength to change your policies, have at least a little courage. It is not your defeat, you will turn it very easily into your success and it will not be the success of the opposition, but rather the success of those who really care about the education system and the students who are listening here to our debate about the BIA instead of listening to something we have to tell them about their immediate future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24184	Thank you. MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24185	Mr. Minister, knightly and very correct, no one is now discussing, for who knows which time, almost every fall, has blamed you for similar problems. Because he is no longer Minister Zarko Obradovic, we did not talk too much about what Mr. Obradovic did, because we again felt it was not honorable. It is enough that he is no longer a minister and under the pressure of the National Assembly and under the pressure of the public and has brought the education system and students into the situation he has brought. As far as the BIA Academy is concerned, I think the public knows the position of the SPO, which is not against security, nor of honest people working in the security sector, nor of us understanding the security challenges facing our country, of classical security, of human trafficking, of drug trafficking, of arms trafficking, etc. We understand all of this and we know that, of course, the country's interest and the security interest, the interest of all its citizens that there is a BIA, that there are security services. America has 17 of them, and they're great. However, they are not in the education system or the United States, nor exists in Europe, I even don't know, I tried to find it online, nor is there a security academy within the education sector, and the education sector ministry must not go to that academy. Then what is one such institution doing in the education sector? Then it needs to be defined as some government secret organization with specific purposes and singled out from the education sector. That's why we'd like there to be a dialogue, that you give us an argument and that all that I'm going to say is to convince me. I think that, after all these reasons, you should still say what the Ministry's intention is, so that we can discuss it, so that we can eventually break up some preconceptions and say, that's fine, that's what we should vote for. But you simply, Mr. Minister, should say something about it. As a representative of the political party, which has since 1990 sought strong institutions and a strong state, because we are right-wing and we believe in strong institutions and a strong state, we today have neither strong institutions nor a strong state precisely because of what those who were not in power until 2000 did, nor those who were in power after 2000, because they did not reform the security services, which, although we had a lustration law, no one was lustrated because of the unopened files of secret services, and, see, the European Commission strongly recommends that Serbia open the files of the security service, as the best recommendation for the removal from the past and for all the abuses of security services that, don't forget, were created primarily as political secret police. This matrix since 1945, in which all those who represented the potential for the development of society, the middle class of society, the strong civic class, university professors, clergy, craftsmen, merchants, academic public, cultural public, were hit by political police, and past tortures of flat tortures that passed on similar to fascism. There was no difference between fascist and communist relations to political opponents. As a representative of the SPO, I could tell the National Assembly a lot of details that you don't know about what we've all been through just from those who've been dealing with, imagine, in the Department of Internal Enemy by persecuting political opponents. Mr. Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Djindjic have been around countless times, knowing that listening devices, let's say, at the headquarters of our party, were saying that they would do what they wouldn't do, and then they took a pen and paper and arranged for each other to do what they would really do in a political sense, nothing against the state, but for the development of democracy and for the change of the regime that led the country where it led. None of the former Yugoslav republics have opened files. Macedonia did it. What's going on in Macedonia? While Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, there was a reason for opening the file to cause strong social and political earthquakes. This is exactly the kind of earthquake that happens in Macedonia. In short, anyone who has signed and made a written statement and has agreed that for the purposes of personal advancement, personal wealth to deal with human rights violations, to rat on spouses, children, parents, neighbors, godfathers, etc., and in return to have a huge material benefit, is now on a pillar of shame in Macedonia. These people have mostly solved existential problems. Many of them are respected private, businessmen, etc. It's not up to the capital, they got it just because of these jobs, but because they can't go out on the street anymore, which nobody's gonna drink coffee with them, which they're out of family relations, out of friendly relationships, out of public life. Those who have firms, no one will do business with them anymore. Serbia is still spinning in the same round and that's how it's gonna be until there's a true political will to make a way out of the past. You can see what the European Commission is asking Croatia for the famous "Lex Perkovic" case. The Croats, of course, will have to amend the law and make a way away from the communist criminals. Someone here mentioned the murder of a guard in Topcider. It is the hypocrisy of the first rank, as the representatives of the political party did not vote for the SPO and DHSS proposal to examine the circumstances under which the murder took place. Also, they have not voted in favour of countless times to submit our proposal for a law opening secret service files. Our disappointment in all governments is absolutely the same and we look through the same prism. In addition, respect for LDP and LSV MPs, who have always, as well as Mr Marijan Risticevic, supported our proposals. Do we not understand the security sector? I'd say we understand, that remark doesn't stand at all. For what? So remember, when Yugoslavia fell apart, the military intelligence structures absolutely recorded everything, and the imports of weapons from Hungary, and that famous footage with the General of the Croatian Army of Sheks, which was released unfairly and late to our public only to recruit new volunteers for a pointless war that equally caused both sides. Did security services point to anything that could happen in Kosovo and Metohija in time? They did. The absolute state and political summits daily provided reports on the arming of Albanians, their training centres, the existence of even a training barracks, the unearthed 360 and a few kilometers of trenches, etc. But who's the responsibility? Not at the security services in this part, they did their job, but at the state and political summit. Here we now need to make a political decision – whether to support this kind of academy or not? Do we need people who are trained to fight modern security risks? Absolutely. Should they be well dressed? Yeah. Are they going to be taught by B.I.A. operatives? So I think they should train them in their internal training, as has been done so far, and I see no reason for the existence of a secret school within Serbia's education system. If it's to be organized, it's to be organized in some way so far. If you think it's out of line, let those who deal with security upgrade it, but we do not see why it is included in Serbia's security system. When I mentioned the Survey Committee earlier, since Ms Batic and the late Vladan Batic submitted requests for the establishment of the survey committee, this April of this year the government indeed made a decision on the establishment of the Survey Committee and we will see what will be the result of the work of the Survey Committee. Therefore, I would ask Mr. Ministers that we may decide whether to vote on a proposal to delete this proposal, or not to set up a security academy, or to support the opposition's request, would indeed ask that you give us a valid argument. Because you are a member of my political party, in which the party leader and all of us were installed listening devices, in which many of our people lost their lives, in which Mr. Draskovic survived several assassinations and only miraculously saved him, in which Mr. Zoran Djindjic was killed from the same hand, with the same method of tracking, listening, recording, etc., we with such bitter experience, with special attention must approach all the issues concerning this security sector. There's something else I want to say. Thanks to many truly most honest people in the security sector, many are murdered and enlightened. Because, let's say, as far as the assassination of the Ibaric Masteral, the lady who owed the file of that truck used for the assassination was absolutely, and a number of other BIA officials, were absolutely in court objectively, clearly, correctly testifying to all the circumstances under which the assassination was prepared, the material and technical means, about everything that had resulted in such a great tragedy for the democratic public and for the future of Serbia. But in any case, what's particularly sensitive to us is that in all of this, as well as the murder of Zoran Djindjic and Mr Stambolic, state resources were used, that people who had great powers were used, who couldn't possibly abuse them, etc. At the same time, this does not mean that the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Demochrist Party have something to do with the transfer of people who, while caring for the country's security, have laid down their lives, which are exposed to daily major risks, which carry out very complex operational tasks, who really care about the country's security and on the other hand, of which, other than the salary they work for with honor and correct work, have no other privilege. But let us not forget that many with modest incomes suddenly became owners of capital. So how? Probably using all those networks and all those resources. To conclude, we are not completely clear why, if there is a need and there is certainly cyber crime, human trafficking, the new forms of crime require new people who will respond to the challenges of a new time, who must be trained in a new way by the best specialists. Why put this into Serbia's education system and why give an operative an academic title, so it can be presented to the public and will be presented as a professor of the Academy of Security, and probably will not legally meet many of them. Because of all the things I said, I expect that because of what the European Union is asking us to do to make this deviation from the bad past, because remember the last government has formed a state commission that has determined that somewhere over 90,000 Serbian civil class has been killed in the period since 1945 on the ground, exclusively for political reasons. Anyone who believes that Serbia should only be turned to the future and not deal with these issues is wrong. We have responsibilities to our ancestors, we have responsibilities to those people who have given the greatest Christian value to democratisation society, which is life. We have a responsibility to Serbian civil emigration, which is like Dragisa Kasicovic and many, even in the United States and across our continent, which has reached the hand of BIA, or UDBE, depending on how it was called, because they only wanted to see a different, more modern, more normal, fairer Serbia, Serbia that will respect basic and elementary human rights. It's safe to say that we're not talking about this against security. We just want people who deal with security, that's all they do. That they do not engage in abuses of powers that they have based on what the state has given them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24186	Thank you. Minister Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24187	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, here are a few words if I can help. Just before that, I'm sorry that a regular professor at the Medical School in Belgrade, I mean not on purpose, I don't take it as maliciously, insinuating something that doesn't stand. If we want to share our personal experiences, our family experiences, our personal experiences, then we'll go far. We're going to go to measure who's more, who's smaller, for someone who's more hurt, who's less hurt. I'm afraid there won't be enough time in that for the rest of our lives to get it out. I have personal reasons to be something for and something against, but put a label on me that I can't possibly be, which I can't be, which I can't be, by origin, or by what I'm wearing, what I've been through, what I've lived through, what my people have been living to do right now, doesn't really stand. I'm sorry to have to bring it up so we don't further spread that discussion. Today we are discussing the establishment of an academy that is not part of the university, not to colleges, but to schools of vocational studies that have completely different rules. What the discussion today is about is the draft law amending the law whose public discussion was due to end on 16 September, and at the request of Konus is a discussion, a public discussion extended until 1 October. This school of vocational studies was established, I was informed these days, formed in April of this year by the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision and was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The school began to work, and along with the current problem, accepting the problems of students, accepting, understanding the students' efforts to achieve this minimum of 48 points or loans as originally stated by the Bologna Declaration, I have pledged that the urgent procedure is followed by a proposal to amend the laws relating to facilitating students of all universities and state and private, where there are problems, and there are over 30,000 to solve the problem by emergency procedure and enable them with 48 points to continue, not to enroll the university, but to continue studying to facilitate that study, primarily because of the material position, and knowing that there are also reasons not only student, reasons for failure and on our part, our university teachers. Since the school has started, the school that is today has started working, this proposal includes the part relating to the work of the school, so that we can regulate the procedure by an urgent procedure, the legal course at the school. It would be likely that the public discussion on amendments to the University Law, where I did not participate, was due to be completed by 16 September, and I was appointed on 2 October of this year in this high house, then these two proposals were merged and included as a single proposal. Just to remind you, we have two systems of education with us, one belonging to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the other to which the Police Academy belongs, belongs this school which was founded, professional studies and there is a special university of military sciences whose rector, fortunately, also doctor, professor, or General Jeftic. That's our educational high school structure. I know that now there are efforts by General Jeftic's rector, to do everything and likely in the near future will come their proposal, to amend the law to unite all systems of education, higher education and those belonging to the republic, i.e. the ministry that is directly responsible to this high home and so on. The structures that are now under control, to read how it stands correctly, in a law that exists, that the administrative supervision of these high school institutions is carried out by the Ministry of Interior, that is, the affairs of defence. I'm really asking you one more time for what I said first.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24188	The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24189	Dear Madam Chairman, when the assembly debate on the Law on Education is under way in this debate on BIA, it is the best indicator that Serbia is in a more advanced dictatorship. For those who say DS should apologize to someone on the BIA wall. You know, October 17th of every year, the BIA Day is marked, because that day, the Order of the Kingdom of Serbia established a department of classified police work and none of those people whose name, honest and honest people are on that wall, had completed the Academy of Security. Most of them suffered at a time when the policy of "sading spoons" was conducted, so I expect when you talk about them to lower your head and when you talk about these people, to speak with all due respect. Perhaps you would have completed our experience at the BIA, if the first Deputy Prime Minister had come to the temple on October 3rd to see what the victims of BIA from his time looked like, but he did not find it appropriate, he did not find time for such a thing. At the end of the day, this is what Serbian citizens look like when they replace their policy with a policy of "tink knives". Next time you want to shake the tree of freedom with us, first get off that tree.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24190	You want Mr. Granny, go ahead, sign up, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24191	Madam President, I don't know what time I'm going to repeat the same question, and now I'm advertising the violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure that you had to warn the previous speaker, to take away the word, and here it's about the victims of the first vice president of the government of the time, those nineties, those 90s, that you were able to make peace with when you were supposed to play basketball when you were supposed to, even the victims when you were supposed to hug when you were supposed to keep the power, the haughtiness, the expensive cars, the secret public procurement and all that you did in Serbia, that the responsibility of all of us from the 1990s or Mr. Vukic from the 1990s, what have you been doing all this time? What did you do from 2000 to 2012, what you didn't process, what you didn't prove, what you didn't arrest, why didn't you judge? Now you remember all that. What about that time and responsibility for that time? There is no evidence of that and that you want to impute and that it bothers you when we remind you of the deficit you have made over the past four years for unemployment, genocide in Serbia by unemployment from 13% to 26%... (President: Mr. Granny, please stick to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... But you don't mind going back to the '90s and then those people with whom you hugged and rested.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24192	Mr. Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24193	For those forgetful who think that they insult me, when we came to power, first we had to bury the graves, and see who lies in those graves, to count them, to name them, to bury them as humans, and not on Fruszko Gora with pepper and lime, as the president of Serbia is buried. Then we wanted to close the trenches of hatred, but not every reminder has to be a threat, not every silence to be forgotten. When we remind you, we don't threaten, we're just talking about why we don't trust you, because we're experiencing you with the same, unchangeable, prone to abuse of security services, which you're showing by this law. When you say "Resistance", those resistance people, sir you're throwing, were the biggest victims of police repression and torture, the biggest of whom they today call "Vulin's Border", the administrative crossing, because of him. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we didn't hug and kiss anyone to profit in power, we've already given you a hand of reconciliation, because if we hadn't, you wouldn't be sitting here today. We gave our hand of reconciliation to everyone as Tomislav Nikolic today wants to settle, but we did not take the rubber and erase the historical memory, nor the memory of the citizens of the 1990s. When you tell us about the state you took over and even dare to say genocide. You know, we took over the state with the freezers at the bottom of the artificial accumulations. That accumulation wasn't about making electricity. It was about hiding corpses. We've taken over a state without electricity from 27 unpaid salaries, and we've settled it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24194	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24195	I just can't understand one thing that a group of 65 MPs, the largest parliamentary group, sits here, has introduced a previous speaker into this assembly, how? Is it by some view of choice by the principle of DS, what, how? We are here because we have been brought into elections by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are the only ones who are relevant to say who they want and who they don't want to represent and who they want and who they don't want in the House of the National Assembly. All those freezers, all those heavy things that happened in our past, leave it to those who need to process it, who need to do it. Leave it to the courts, leave it to the institutions of the system, leave it to all those structures that make up one state. This House is not a courtroom, we're not lawyers, we're not judges, we're not prosecutors, you learn that. This is where laws are created that will define the future, which will improve the past, but with these constant views of the past. I'm just going to call on the words of a distinguished fellow named Miletic the other day. Zarko Obradovic was in statements, when he was a member of the government with the DS, he was the best minister, and then he was not the worst minister. It was proof that this reconciliation was not sincere but extorted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24196	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, I will give you the right to a replica, but I ask all the Members of the People to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24197	My wish was to return to the topic, however, the SNS MPs today were very little on the subject, because they are always in their discussions back in the past. I just can't believe this is said by the head of a parliamentary group who does everything the opposite. Their ministers, their MPs are, that is, being placed in the role of both prosecutors and judges. They make judgments before the trial. They announce arrests, they act the way their predecessors acted, some of them took part in the power of the 1990s. We have had an unhappinessful history that is for example in Europe and in the whole world when one regime is mentioned that has left for itself nothing but desolation. You are now on your way to return that system to a small door already in laws that should regulate the question of the number of points with which students continue to study in the next school year. You've given Mr. Babic the precision of this law where it's clear that the SNS is behind this law, that the SNS is behind this cowardly egg, and you're constantly defending these issues today, you're dealing with history, you're doing very unknowingly. I mean, all those who were able to follow this discussion today that they realized what you've done, that you've duped the students, their parents, to pack up the burden of their problems how to educate their children, to pack up your academy that will serve you and your co-workers who will have two salaries, and also to follow what others do, what teachers, teachers, MPs, so that each of them has their own bug. I think it's very...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24198	Time, Mr. Veselinovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24199	Thank you. I've got to advertise Article 103's injury. The Rules of Procedure, where I asked for time to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure by article 107 in a speech by one of the previous speakers, but I did not get the right to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have to say, we really must respect dignity in this House. The previous speaker, more specifically not directly preceded, but before him, absolutely did not respect the dignity of this parliament, but, in his old good practice, used the opportunity to absolutely...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24200	Mr. Todorovic, we've heard this before from Mr. Babic, it's already advertised. So if you have something new.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24201	Of course not, I have to say that a man who talks about introducing administrative borders to individuals cannot not mention that from the ranks of his party there were ministers who were ministers in the Kosovo government, and today they serve as defenders...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24202	Mr. Todorovic, I cannot allow you to speak any further. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24204	You'll count me in on the time of an authorised representative, although later we have some amendments. I would say a few words about the debate that took place in the first part of today's session from which it was possible, or the people who followed the course of the debate, if they had the nerve to follow the debate between 10.00 and 14:00 and to conclude at all what we were talking about, but somehow the atmosphere was created that some parliamentary groups or MPs were in favour of forming this academy and that the other MPs were against. I don't like that division because we're just talking about whether a solution is good or not, but we're not apriors against some things. One more thing could be seen, that the image of our intelligence agencies, as well as others in the world, is still quite negative, i.e. that citizens, politicians, political parties have vivid memories of some times when this agency, once otherwise called, was very often an instrument in the hands of politicians. So, they're still being followed by a bad image. I know that, not only our agency, we have two agencies, we have this security-intelligence, to tell the civilian, and we have a military intelligence agency. It is avoided that they are called secret services because democratic societies are trying to build mechanisms for civilian control of these services. I'll set things up a little differently here. It seems to me that the people who suggested that this academy be formed were set up for them by this project and that those of the tree did not see the forest. So we're talking about people who are going to be educated and who are going to be doing some very sensitive and dangerous jobs in the future. Serbia, like the whole world, faces security threats and challenges that were very different from those that existed 50 years ago. We have a threat of terrorism, drug trafficking and people, cyber crime, etc. Those threats are very dangerous. Now we're starting an academy, we've got an amendment where we're asking that the Ministry of Education in some way has insight into the study program and that it has administrative supervision, etc. The minister's nodding now, or waving that they didn't accept the amendment. No, but these are some of our amendments we'll talk about later. If we translate this into life, or practice, that academy will have to announce a public competition for the admission of students. We see now they're planning to enroll 30 students. How are they gonna do that? Is this going to be in "The Official Messenger" or is it going to be within some of their advertising tables? You know how colleges and high schools do it, so there's a public competition. Then the candidates apply, and the candidates go through all these tests. I see that these are ambitious tests from psychophysical abilities to getting to know mathematics, native language, etc. So they go through it publicly. When the whole job is done, a ranking list will have to be highlighted somewhere, or who the future students are. Someone here mentioned this is a secret school. No, this is going to be a public school. Not to mention, parents will probably, when their child is finished, organize and celebrate, celebrate and say, my son has graduated from that university. Now I ask you, what kind of service will it be that will have to send its people on very dangerous and sensitive tasks, which will publicly drag those names through? So it seems to me that the people who suggested this didn't think enough. What we're talking about is a national security threat. Will these people ever be able to do these very sensitive jobs when they go through this whole public advertising cycle? We'll talk about the next amendments when they come to order.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24205	The word is made by MP Zoran Ostojic, a replica of the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24206	Mr. Minister, I'm really sorry if you misunderstood me, if I've hurt your remark that you'll be remembered as the former Minister of Education for this. I don't want to, but I'm just saying and I'm warning you of possible implications if that happens to you. You have yet proposed these amendments to the law and that signature remains for history. The very fact that when you proposed a follow-up study with 48 points, that law, or those changes, did not enter the emergency procedure, but went to the regular one, and when this was added to the police academy, behold, there was an emergency procedure immediately, and that shows who was behind this. I'm sorry that you're here to defend something that's obviously not your idea, which is not your idea, which isn't here until yesterday's BIA chief, now the Secretary of Defense, but admit it would be even more absurd for the Secretary of Defense to defend the amendments to the Education Act. It's proof that this isn't the place in this law. This is proof that someone at a small door, with a mask of these 48 points, is trying for future retired BIA members or current active BIA members to provide academic status without academic calling and what the law prescribes. It seems to me to be the essence of these changes, and certainly it should be a public school. She's a secret because she's in an unpublic place in a building nobody can get into. All these things that my colleagues have been talking about is clear that it can't be found in a law like this. That's where my well-intentioned warning came from.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24207	The word has been made by the People's MP Miljenko Deretta, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24208	Mr. Minister, I've called on that, and I absolutely want to tell you that I had no idea that it was directed to you. I wanted to underline the fact that this will be attributed to you regardless of what you insisted, that 48 points and the number of deadlines are placed in an emergency procedure, tells me that you are prepared to seriously think and change the education system. You were planted with something you pointed to, thank you for reading these members of the law, which actually says that the amendment of the law was supposed to be proposed by the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence. You're just not the real ministry for these changes. Secondly, you said that the question of points was the question of not enrolment, but the continuation of studies. For this institution, there is no follow-up study, because it is just beginning. Therefore, it is not in the right place by two basiss and you are not a real proposer in the context of all of this. That's all I wanted to explain. I look forward to going back on the subject, which is actually a student enrollment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24209	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I won't talk much about the proposed amendment, although I was in a dilemma in the first and second amendments to report. It is interesting, however, that everything that is secret in Serbia, we like to be public. The fact is, there's a lot of debate here about a special service that's really needed in the country. It is necessary to be high-level, well-educated, so that, as the colleague said, what we are all aware of, she can be prepared to meet the challenges of modern society in this domain in front of every country. First of all, just because we're a small people and a small nation, and we've been through what we've been through, and we're aware of where everything is and who's kept it a secret, so we have the consequences that we have as a society -- decay, transition and everything else. So, a high - education service that can mate is necessary for a small nation and for a small state because they are the most common prey of some of the greater and other interests. There is nothing questionable about it being exactly someone who will be educated like this, in this way, within this institution and, of course, from relevant respectable personnel who can provide knowledge and experience from that area. The best function are secret services in those countries that are invisible. I think Israel is one of the best examples of that and Mossad. One small nation, the few, six million and some inhabitants, has one of the most powerful services in the world, endlessly invests in it, because they are aware that it will preserve them. That's how they keep both state and power and influence and all their resources. It's the only way. We're aware of that. I think it's something we're talking more about right now from the domain of our personal emotions. What I've been commenting on two days ago about this, which is the perception of me as a citizen, and I really hope that this institutionalization of this education will bring serious professionals into this business, and the less we know them, the less we deal with them, it will mean that they are really professionals and they are doing their job well, and we will probably be safer and safer then, because that is the goal of having this. Whether in this or in any other law, that's something we can plow about, but it's necessary. What I personally think and want to say as a citizen is that I really hope that by establishing this, and everyone will know what I'm talking about, the need for a huge number of informants is reduced, or, to say one of our aphorist, Serbs have a passion for providing safe information, which we all know exists. Today someone mentioned drinking coffee in the BIA, etc., I never drank coffee there and that someone was going for the documents and everything else, that this ugly mentality line is being ignored somewhere, which exists in a number of people, because I think, and we've all been in politics for a long time, we've had a lot of experience, that this ugly dimension of this service has led to an ugly focus of all of us and led to a lot of bile and ugly comments, and that this very group has contributed to the serious growth of society, using various benefits, because they haven't been paid, they've asked some other services for services, to give false information, mostly false information. It's a special profile of people, and they can only give you the wrong information. So, in the name of Serbia, it really deserves a high professionalism in this domain. I think that we should support just these two members who are, yes, introducing a door to this kind of legislation and legislative practice and are transparently exposed to the public of Serbia what is going to happen. Of course, what the results will be, the future will say, and how much savings it is, so I think we've spent a lot more money and a lot more money is spent on pointless agencies that we don't even know what they're doing and how much they're spending, and we're going to have to ask that question, so let's not talk about economic ambassadors who cost this country dearly, and the effects are equal to very low figures. This should be done more seriously, and these 30 students, and I think next year 30, will justify Serbia for what they exist. We really expect it. The less we know about them, the better their job and their roles are fully justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24211	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24212	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really waited very patiently for the first part of our session today to talk about the amendment to Article 1, because we were kind of dealing with everyone else, and at least we were doing what the law says. I followed very closely where some of the MPs came from, as far as they came, to Ozna and in the '30s. I really have to deal with what it is right now. In order to finally get to the law, I have to comment on what more people have commented on, which is that these amendments and additions to the laws are practically two-members, as I would say, have two parts, completely independent of each other, and the minister has repeatedly talked about this part that is very important and that these changes and additions are allegedly and made, which is that the number of points needed for enrollment in the new academic year is down from 50 to 48 and the second part, that the number of deadlines for passing exams is increased by five, as much as in previous changes and additions, to six, as proposed. It's, as far as we're concerned, very acceptable. It's part of the law. The second part of the law, completely pampered with this and this broad need to change these and supplement them by an emergency procedure, is kind of going through that part and somehow it's in the shadows. It is only today that a little wider picture of all this opens up and behind the need to meet the students, goes through something that has nothing to do with those students, and what the MPs are talking about today. The second section refers to this famous establishment of the Academy of Professional Studies for National Security. As far as we're concerned, there are a lot of things we need to talk about. The first thing that is completely unclear, if in this Article 1 only as a supervisory authority, someone who controls the work of this academy appears to be a MUP, then why does the Ministry of Education propose it, if they are not part of a single system, if actually the education system is not a single system? I don't see why he needs to be proposed by the Minister of Education. What's the point of this law, if he doesn't have to be watched? It is absolutely ridiculous to expect the Minister of Education to propose the law in one way, and then it has nothing to do with that part of the education to which this law applies. Secondly, today we mention that some have ruled regulations and it is true, but we must say that this school that has existed since April of the month has been formed by this government's regulation. And it was formed by some regulation. But what we're missing, and we all miss it here, is the public debate, that it opened up before that, and that it's said that we need it, that we need people from the area of national security, how we design it, what are we going to do with those, say, this year we're going to sign them up for 30, so next year we're going to close the school? No, we're gonna have a new 30 or I don't know how many. There's gonna be a lot of them. In doing so, we forget that some 2,200 students are already schooled by the Faculty of Security who are competent in the area of security. They're probably a lot more competent. I keep looking at how the discussion is going on here, and somehow it's always talking -- these people are going to have the right profession, they're going to get the necessary knowledge. The university will give him much more knowledge, and at a time of very high technology, and how it takes that kind of knowledge, that kind of competence. I don't understand that it takes such low knowledge for such a very important area as national security. Then these additional skills that are specific, because the area is specific, they are given in some other way, some of the study programs that are put into that college or some other college like law school or the Criminal Police Academy, you can also put in one part of it, because it already exists and it is specific. After all, the Theological Faculty is specific, and yet it is part of Belgrade University. We can't say, every college is very specific to itself, but they have something in common that makes one common system. It's some idea of ours that it's much better to form a subgroup within the Security Faculty - a study programme that will deal with this. For the simple reason, firstly, higher education, which is very important, secondly, is much cheaper. This year nine million will be given, the next 35, the 36 there, when we look at it, we who promote savings, who talk about the rationality of something, then we have to bear in mind a very important fact that it's going to cost. Who's it gonna cost? The citizens of Serbia will cost. As far as the DSS is concerned, we're not the ones who want more citizens hands in their pockets. I'm talking about the need for students, because of the economic situation, to get together and help them overcome these problems that have arisen, to enter the academic year with 48 points, but we're not talking about whether their parents will be able to educate them this year if they're, say, doctors or some other profession that's been taxed by 20%, so they still have to pay VAT on computers, on food, on everything else. You know, on the one hand, we're doing a favor, on the other hand we're not doing them a favor, we're making it impossible for them and what was hard enough for their parents. What is the essence of this amendment, which we really need to talk about. Administrative oversight of this school's work can't just be done by the Ministry of the Interior and the competent state authority, as you say here, for national security matters. It could be said to us that only the Ministry of Education can perform, and to get, say, the co-operation of that other ministry. The second ministry cannot run the education process in this country, however specific it is. The best proof that I'm right is that you ministers are proposing this law, not the interior minister, or the military minister. I think this may be an attempt to make this mystery around this school, this mystery that is made of specific occupations for this or for that, please look at a dozen books written by some of our former secret service leaders. You've got a bunch of stuff, a bunch of data, you don't need anything to dig into it, everything's in your palm. Secondly, read our newspaper, have police daily newspapers that give you a very clear overview of all this. I mean, you don't have to misfit something like that. This is, of course, very specific, very responsible, very important, but on the other hand, the mystery of the type, no one will know where the school is, which the programs teach and the rest, does not stand. It doesn't really stand. I think it's the same thing about the status of those who will teach at this school. They can't be past the law. I can't. That law is the same for everyone. So, now that I want to teach at the Faculty of Philosophy, I know philosophy very well, maybe I could teach. I can't, the law is holding me back, I have to have some academic titles, except that I really want and I'm good at it, they say. He can't go past the law. It can be done by those who do, who are employed in the authority of the state administration in charge of security matters, but who meet the Education Act with some other conditions. That's my opinion on it. These kind of narrow, specific things like, methods or similar things, not to bid, can also be handed over by people employed in the authority of the state administration, but professionally. That's my opinion, humble though, I'm not competent to say some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24213	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, National MP Donka Banovic submitted. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24214	This is an amendment relating to the same Article 1. We are still with the first member. This is an amendment to point 8 and essentially represents a whole with the previous amendment, i.e. with an amendment to paragraph 7. My colleague was talking about that seventh attitude. I'll do some things again. The proposal suggests that the Government, on a proposal from the Authority of the State Administration, responsible for the internal affairs of national security, or defence affairs, determines the conditions and ways to achieve the study programmes. So we suggest that the government determines the conditions and the way closer, but that this be on a proposal from the Ministry of Higher Education and Science, that is, on a proposal from the Ministry of Education, by not leaving out these state bodies that you claim to be more competent than you, to take care of. I'm just talking about the conditions and the way to achieve it, not the contents of these items. Before you suggest a way and conditions to get an opinion from these other competent authorities, not to skip the ministry that is still in charge of education for all of them, including for the education of these personnel. With the second amendment that is overall, we are again trying to strengthen the Ministry of Education in this area, which is that the administrative supervision exercises the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education and Science, because in the future this ministry may be structured differently. I don't get it, or you haven't thought this through enough, so why did you say no to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24215	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Dusan Obradović, Ivan Jovanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Ljuban Panić and Maja Vidinović together and National MP Donka Banović, with a correction. The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24216	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I would first and foremost address Mr. Secretary. We had a break and a chance to get to know each other and talk about this. I got the impression that after those media speculations that you as a minister who really has a great career behind him, who has agreed to sacrifice part of his time, but also energy and knowledge for the sake of state interest, and I guess it's an honor. It's something that's meant in politics. On the other hand, the media immediately gave the impression that some Mica Jovanovic or someone else would speak through you. We see here, first of all, that this is not your proposal and we see that it is more than obvious that those who love security services, I guess all of the little ones have some things they would like to do in life, someone to leave it, someone not, but obviously the first vice president of the government is very interested in security services, and now one new generation of people is recruiting. Although there is a college, there are serious institutions that we talked about today, we talked about serious countries recruiting people for these things after the completion of some other colleges, economic, legal, political sciences or others. It's only then that you can see if anyone has any affinities, abilities and what's needed for the BIA, in our case. You're now getting into a situation where someone else is talking through you and that's what's dangerous. The Minister of Education must be a strong political figure. He will never hear from me for sure that we will regret Minister Zarko Obradovic. He was the vice president of a party and had political influence. Please take your stand as soon as possible. Make yourself a political space. We're going to get into a situation where this is just gonna be one test for you, which is what they can let into the Assembly. You're the last rapper before he comes to the Assembly, because here we have a ruling coalition that doesn't read any legal proposals and automatically reads about what comes from the government. You're the one who has to raise your voice and say that some things, for the sake of the interest of education, can't go through you. It's something that's a big danger. Please, as soon as you take your stand, you have reasons, you have results behind you, but politics is such that you spend people, and I don't want you to be remembered in this context, especially as a citizen of Serbia, someone who is very interested in the future in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24217	Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24218	Article 3 refers to the number of deadlines examined. So, this is already, let me say, a Latin American series that passes through every September If you remember, we were just talking about the number of deadlines tested last September, so then the minister tends to shrink, to get to the number four for all colleges. We had the same amendment in September last year, or we asked the Minister at the time to accept the amendment where the number of deadlines in colleges would be at least four and no more than six. I also talked in principle about not being good, and besides, it's not even in the spirit of this reform, it's not in the spirit of flexibility that higher education has to show, that you all colleges and higher education schools are looking at the same way. So all colleges, even sections, are different. We were contacted by professors, deans and students from different colleges, and then it can be concluded that at the colleges of social sciences they say they have six deadlines too. They say they have a problem that they can't organize classes if they have six deadlines. They say it even turns into seven or even eight deadlines. On the other hand, you have universities where natural sciences are studied, which have already adapted very well to this system of six test deadlines simply because of the nature of subjects that teach, so they have many different kinds of exercises, etc. And they really don't look at a reduction in the number of deadlines as something that should really happen at their colleges. It is precisely this amendment in this direction that colleges should be allowed to decide whether they will later be in the statute or any of their internal acts where the teaching-science council would individually declare whether they need four, five or six deadlines. If the former Minister of Education had accepted this amendment last September, we wouldn't have had this problem at all today, and we wouldn't have to, if anything, change this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24219	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24220	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I also want to support this amendment of ours because I think it's very meaningful. I remember the last time we talked about the amendments and additions to this law here was a very sharp discussion about this amendment, because it really has its weight and I think it's very, very effective in the system. It is indisputable that we will support the students, because it is not their fault for this situation they are currently in, of course, I need to be clear right now, not because the students are threatening to strike, but for other reasons entirely. I must also say to use my MP group's time to appeal to you and to all my colleagues here today to open a very broad debate about what's going on with us as a state, with our higher education, what's going on with the process that we want to establish, what's going on with the problems that are emerging, what are the problems, how we're going to overcome them. Why am I saying that? Well, is it possible that for years we've been standing at 48 points for enrollment and that the famous 50-point limit is impossible to exceed as a state? She's inaccessible to us. It shows that we really have a number of problems and that we are obviously standing in place. They're constantly obvious and we can't get across that line and never solve those problems of ours. It has to be said that he really has a lot of problems. Many people have asked us to point to these problems, for it is the only opportunity to point to these problems. Generally, we have less and less knowledge at all levels of education. We find in various ways less and less knowledge carried by students, and later high school students and students. For example, the analysis shows that the number of college graduates, say, compared to the last list of higher education students, almost doubled. On the other hand, the number of doctors science has certainly gone on forever. Many are inclined to say, I am still hesitated, but I will be able to quickly say that in Serbia the last few years only one who has not had the money to doctor or had no ambition to doctor, because in 205 years of Belgrade University, 8500 people have doctored, and in the last five years, since we have private colleges, two private colleges in the last few years have doctored 200 people and, let's say, the number of doctors in the last five years has increased from 1000 to 5500. These are dramatically increased numbers. On the other hand, we have a lower and lower criterion, and even in the government, they are looking for experts on the side, because they believe that ours obviously have no knowledge that can thus fight reality and modern problems. I expect you to give me information on this PISA test, because after 12 years Serbia will obviously not be in a position for the first time in 2015 to apply this test to its 15-year-olds. It's a very important test, although we don't achieve some god knows what results, but I remember in 2006 when the result received at the PISA testing really shocked the public when we got the information that half of our children were functionally illiterate. Of course, I'm not talking - illiterate, but - functionally illiterate. It shocked the public and it upset the spirits and something moved. We didn't dramatically climb the scale, but it's true on the other hand and that we're one of the most advanced countries between the two tests. It's important because by testing that way, we get the data where we're in the system. It would be terrible if Serbia were not in the testing cycle in 2015, but given that the process has quite escaped and that I do not believe it will be able to enter, even if they pay those 122,000 euros. I'm afraid we've stayed and I appeal to you to try to get all the data together and somehow try to follow the cycles, because it's very important for our education system. On the other hand, we still have a lot of problems that are related to the process of teaching. You know that students often say that many professors, many objects that were two-semed, packed practically in just one semester and no one. So, absolutely dysfunctional is done. Then we have a problem with textbooks that will also add up this government decision, which are complicated for students. It's very hard to get them. There's a lot of Resave school in that. These are all problems, but two more problems I want to say are next. One problem is that some students who come, graduate from schools in Republika Srpska, and we have the Law on Special Relations with Republika Srpska and when they come here to us, our education system recognizes. It's about pharmaceuticals, first of all. It's a specific case. The girl finished the pharmacy. She came here. She's a normal intern. When she was supposed to get her license, she couldn't get her license anymore because the pharmaceutical chamber refused to give her a license without nostrifying her diploma, and nostration is like a problem further. The big question is, is it possible that the Chamber is breaking the law that exists? You have the Ministry of Education that says - there's no need to nostrify a diploma, you have a clear law and you have a Chamber that says - no, we don't want to respect the laws of this country. Again, you have an educational inspection for higher education which also says – we are not bound by the laws that are passed in the Assembly, and this is about, for example, a girl who does not have a pass-by that is regulated by law for master's students to the PhASPER doctoral studies. It's, of course, the same college. The woman says she's informed the educational inspection that she can't perform it, even though it's legal. The educational inspection for higher education said that it absolutely has no intention of respecting the laws passed in the congregations. Of course, she sued them, but it's a different story now. That's all the trouble. I said nostration is like one of the leading problems. We really need to open this debate and please open it as soon as possible. The sooner we open it, we'll have more concrete reasons to change the laws, but when we change those laws, then these laws will really serve the purpose of repairing a particular problem and overcoming it as a country, finally, that tap in place. This year we'll meet the students. I don't know what's gonna happen next year. You're announcing amendments to the new law. It would be good for them to change and supplement you we really have before, that we can make their point, talk about it, because I think those are the problems that are the problems of all of us. Definitely, all the societies that want to get out of the crisis are investing terribly much in education. That's the way to get out of the crisis. It's an investment for the future. Unfortunately, we're not in that position. We, as a state, first bit separate for education, the second thing that we keep looking at education as a cost, and the third thing is that we put our own foot in the shackles with which we need to skip our groins. The way you put these changes here in front of us is the shackles MPs have to wear while they skip their groins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24221	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24222	Thank you, Chairman. It's interesting to me how, when we have to discuss the real problems of education, there are not those who need to discuss only the new academy. We keep saying we're doing this on behalf of the students. I have to ask on behalf of which students? We had a student organization that first supported the change of laws, and then under the pressure of some other students, apparently this student organization changed its attitude. When a timely debate is held on how to register the SCONS and, in fact, it becomes a state institution paid by this country from the budget to support on behalf of students, allegedly, any changes that the ministry, or government intends to implement, it is said that this is not true and that there are, in fact, all student organisations involved. No, they're not. I have in front of me a paper that a group, a large number of students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, prepares a protest tomorrow in which it advocates some very important things about Bologna. They advocate, among other things, and for the number of deadlines, etc., for the number of points. All very specific cited and cited, among other things, the need to improve the quality of the study. That's a little bit of a talk, and that's actually a debate on the education system and education policy. The quality of the study. They cite the example – change in reform and literature, because it is really funny, I quote – and absurd, when for example. I come across a literature that's 30 years old and we read sentences like "until 2002 that might happen." So they're learning about something that could happen 11 years ago. That's what we're talking about here, of course, a little bit. And what's behind that sentence is actually what I was talking about when I was talking about the law in general, and that's the question of the ethics of those who work at the university. The fact that such a textbook exists, everyone knows, the fellow professor, who apparently teaches in that textbook. Did any of them raise their voices against that? No, I don't. Have any expert bodies in the field of enlightenment raised their voice against it? No, I don't. But students have to stage a protest, so they don't learn from a book that's 30 years old. To align the number of pages according to what is prescribed, what has been adopted in our relationship with the Bologna system. Only students fight for it, in fact by protecting certain rights, which are denied by misorganised teaching and the problems they have misorganised teaching and poor programs, unadjusted programs, create and problems and prevent them from completing their studies in good time. That ethical question must be asked as an imperative, because it's something that forms our future generation. A colleague here recently said in a conversation that he intended to enroll in the Master's Office, so since he is from Kragujevac, he is not in Kragujevac, because he wanted to go to law school, because this law school has one legacy of corruption, which this system did not punish, but has amnesty for some of the participants in the affair, so that they can deal with responsible business by country. Someone caught in corruption. In the fight against corruption, I have not heard that name mentioned and those names mentioned. If we educate young people, then we have to educate them in one system of values, whose examples are those who work in education. Such, I must say, that I would support in that system of theirs, very little or insufficient, to be very careful, to say not enough. We advocate here and there were two days ago so many interesting, inspired compositions read here by many and MPs on the issue of education, and then the next day came a new decision on the savings that this society needs to make and one of the savings will be the most extensive one about the Ministry of Education and Technological Development, which through the collection of textbooks and the acquisition of teaching resources and the acquisition of computers will slow down and make it difficult and study and technological development in general, if I may say so. Of course, there's a question of culture, which I won't forget this time. So, and culture, encouraging citizens to at least attend cultural events, if they can't participate in them, to be stimulated, not to be more expensive by 2% now, than it has been so far. If we want one coherent policy, then we need to establish very clear rules. That's why I'm against the amendment. I'm not voting for my colleague's amendment, because I think it's time to set one clear criterion. That's the number of deadlines. Students propose five deadlines, but that's irrelevant now. It's important that it's something that's not going to change that easily. I would also call on the ministry to strengthen this line by the fact that a new law on higher education is being discussed a little more seriously than it has been before, and to create a clear projection that must have some basis in the Strategy. Many of the things that are now being done and proposed and already adopted in the framework of the basic and secondary education law are unfortunately contrary to the Strategy, whatever I think about the Strategy. But there's this relationship that has to exist, in order to provide a clear rule, a clear contract that's being talked about here, between students and the state that's teaching them, to know the rules and to know who wants to be on the state budget, knows under what conditions that budget will have access throughout the education cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24223	MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24224	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, when it comes to this amendment, I will vote in favour of this amendment because it comes from my parliamentary group. When we talk about changes and additions to any law, Minister, we expect some radical changes, perhaps normative, epochal changes that will change the segment of life and edit it in the way the legislator thinks about it. This amendment and the addition of the law brings nothing new but high school training for security services and, in some cases, Branislav Nušić is with us in order to have writing materials. We are taking into this law a high school that will train world spies and I don't know where Serbia goes with it, where it leads Serbia. Today is October 9th and not that it's five to 12, but it's 12 and 15 to pass one of these laws. Smart countries do it differently. When they detect the problem, they systematically solve it, and not as succesively as we do today year by year. This amendment and addition of the law is one extortionary measure at the request of the student organisation and at the request of Konos, to enroll 30,000 students next school year. We can conclude that this is the subsequent mind of the government, in fact, it's the defeat of the government, given that we from the DSS detected these problems and responded to the amendment a year ago when this law was here in the Assembly. But then, the government, the then government, had no ear for the amendments of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and here again is the amendment and addition of such a law. So, the Democratic Party of Serbia also reacted to the amendment then, wanting to help students, we are reacting now. However, we see that we are not the Ministry's partner in this case, i.e. Government, our amendments are well-intentioned, our amendments, above all, want to help you, Mr. Minister, solve this case and help the students themselves. Now let me refer to this amendment submitted by my distinguished colleagues Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic, what their intention is. So they wanted, first of all, this amendment to respond to the problem of deadlines. They wanted to give colleges, universities to handle it themselves, between four and six deadlines. That is also said by my colleague Donka Banovic, there is the possibility that certain universities, which train students of technical science, have four deadlines, and medical schools, due to the volume of lectures and due to a large number of interests and because of students have six deadlines. It happens, Mr. Minister, that some colleges have eight deadlines and that they enroll students with 47 points, so that some professors don't lose their cathedrals because they wouldn't have students who would be on the budget. It's dangerous. This is what we wanted to regulate the problem. That was my colleague's intention. What I noticed, Mr. Minister, when you were giving an opening speech on this law, I see you're in favour of reforming our education and we support it, not only in high school, but in general, you're thinking in a qualitative way of reforming our education education system. This is where you talked about the education system, but it's very important that we talk about the educational system, Mr. Minister. You're a man who's been in education for a long time, you said you've worked in education for 35 years, and you know about these problems. We expect you to solve the problem of the educational process by means of a certain mechanism. Don't let our children raise us "Great Brother", "Farma" or some reality show or street, but we expect you, as resolute minister, to react and pass certain qualitative laws. So that this doesn't happen, Mr. Minister, that every year we make changes and additions to this law, I expect that soon there will be a new law on higher education here before us. If you need help, we're here, we want to talk about it, and I hope we do one quality law and you'll eventually accept our suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24225	Thank you. National MP Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24226	The Honorable Chairman, of course I will vote against this amendment and explain why. You know, I was also an advocate in this National Assembly, and today, I'm a large number of deadlines for our students, but I'm not about to be determined by a scientific teaching council or a scientific higher college with my statutes, because they would get chaos in higher education, everyone would adapt to their conditions, especially when it comes to private colleges. We already have ten, we know what the process is, some have ten deadlines. I advocate, in general, that we give them, but that the legislator determines it – as many deadlines as possible. Why? Because Bologna means professional, pedagogical and scientific training of teachers. If the teacher is trained professionally, then the quality of education will be stronger. I must remind you here there is no high school pedagogy in practice. She as a theory exists. In practice, we have over 80% of university professors who have never listened to a single class in pedagogy. Imagine grading those colleagues. That's why we have bauk professors. Just one example to point out. At a Belgrade university, 400 permanent students for one professor. That's what we have to take care of. On the other, we have 1,000, “the famous, ” for one man. These are terrible things, where some professors are masters of life and death, to say the least, students, and not to talk about executives, college deans. There's a dean of one college that's a dean in this Republic, and there's a permanent job in another country, a second pension. Such, Mr. Minister, we have a lot in colleges and institutes, and that's exactly where we're going to get our savings. Let's stop it. I know that the legislator said that we could only have one job in a third relationship with the other, but we have a professor in three, four, five, six, seven and ten jobs. Let's open the process to younger generations, assistants. That's why new colleagues are opening up, and they're making it up, and they say, "Committee, come to me, give a lecture, and so on." "It comes in," each other's teaching classes, and he has a colleague who performs classes at ten, fifteen colleges. Of course the inspection didn't work there. As we have a hundred district departments of college past the law, and that's what Mr. Chief of the Ministry informs us through the press, and he has to ban it. So, the problem is always with us, not in students, in state institutions, in politics, in teachers, in their skills. We have great students, believe me, I've worked with these kids my whole life, not all of them, but in most cases. Conditions are very important. When it comes to Bologna, we're talking about points, we don't have European conditions, but we have European points, and we're here for a walk. I'm up for us to coordinate it, etc. I'm saying that this problem, which I'm talking about right now, is being done by the Ministry with its advisors and professionals, and we here are just the legislative thing to run. I've got to make things right here. The DS gentlemen made two mistakes today. It is not true, gentlemen, that yesterday's measures have deprived teachers of primary and secondary schools. Then I'm sorry, you don't know what their salary is, it's miserable, under 60,000. Are the university professors, the institutes covered? Of course they are, but they're not all there either. Depends on what you call it. Please, let's not scare the population I work in. It is logical that professors of the university "will be cut off", but teachers of primary and secondary schools do not, their salary is 45,000 to 50,000. Let's not tell the truth, let's not scare these professors. They know it very well, so they laugh at our statements, etc. We need to get the exact data out. This is a legislative body. I always advocate that the arguments here "warn" and not the stories – she said, she said from the street. Indeed, we must make arguments. I'm sorry, and I really support this law. I think students should meet. Students aren't problems. The biggest problems are teachers. And again, 400 at one college in Belgrade, 1,000 at the second, there are 80 students at my university at one of the professors in the old programme. There is a big problem with the "old programme". We have a very large number of students, and the year is coming out, 2014 is coming up, we need to think ahead. Ministry services have to think – what about the army of those students next year. They're our children. It's not her fault we pass the laws, often not taking care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24227	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24228	I'm defending the amendment. Mr Atlagic said he would no longer support the proposed DSS amendment. I'm just going to repeat what we're proposing, when it comes to the number of deadlines examined, to have at least four of them, and at the most six of them decide how much they're going to be, in addition to the fact that colleges are different and that there has to be some kind of flexibility. Mr Atlagic said that in no case will he support this amendment, although the bill suggests that there should be six deadlines in this school year. Does that mean they'll vote for this bill? He then said that there are even ten exam deadlines in some universities and that he absolutely supports better co-operation between students and professors. Does this mean that Professor Atlagic advocates a maximum of ten exam deadlines? Perhaps it would be interesting if he had submitted an amendment, to increase this proposed number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24229	Thank you. Marko Atlagic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24230	I think my colleague puts in my mouth what I didn't say. I'm for an exact number, not between, and for the largest number. If you remember the amendments to the law last year, I advocated the highest number of deadlines tested. As soon as you leave - from to, there's a terrible chaos. That's what college colleagues know. So we stand for that part. If you ask me personally, as I said last year, for the most part, the teachers are required to be in college, and the student can take whatever he wants. I don't know why we're restricting them at all. Mr. Minister, a representative of the National Council on the Last Board says - get ready. Wait, the National Council has done a strategy. The student prepares during the school year by attending classes, writing seminar papers and active participation in teaching. We have a big problem with the National Council. That's what I have to say here. In the first session of the board I asked for, there are one year's wages from individual members of the National Council, and until today I haven't received. That's what I have to say in this assembly. That's what I'm asking to see today. I will not talk about the strategy because I have said so much about it in the preparatory work and in this congregation. It's not called an education and education strategy. It's what a good colleague noticed. It's an education strategy. The day before yesterday, we had a debate, every day on television, violence from schools, believe it or not, there were 40 participants, and not one word did they mention education. We're dealing with consequences, not causes. Why? It's a long story, we could arrange a seminar about it. I'm in favour of restoring education, as a colleague says, both in school and kindergarten and in teaching programs, so we won't have domestic violence, but we're talking about human relations between sexes, human relations in the family, and we won't have consequences. We've kicked those teaching units out, he's 10 years old. You want me to tell you from what teaching class, from the Bucharest to the latest? No, of course not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24231	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24232	Thank you. I'd like to defend what I wanted to say. I didn't mention human relations between sexes because I'm not quite as clear as the gentleman thinks about these human relationships between sexes. What we have said very precisely is that we believe that universities, or universities, have a special right, their larger and their students as partners of these same councils, to say what the specificity of their university is. No smaller, no bigger, than the specificity you're offering for this academy. What is it they need? Someone's gonna have four, and someone's gonna have six. Not to say you don't follow the analysis that says that a large number of deadlines lead to less efficiency, although we should expect a different one. That's what the analysis says. I don't know if they're set or not, but that's the condition they are. Furthermore, I find it very interesting to hear how those who voted for what we are changing today and were then fierce advocates of it today throw under the feet of the students by explaining to them that they are now advocates of something else and mentioning European values, which they otherwise advocate as a party and who they tend to be, that they are now that we do not have these European values. No, we have these European values, but we have some other conditions that are problematic. I'm going to remind you that I made it very clear that the parents have been cut off. Of course they're cut off if they'll get it all together, if you raise the VAT. Say, is there a kid today who doesn't have a computer or doesn't look for a computer? Do you know how much the computer will collect, Mr. Atlagic? I wasn't making up these facts, they were put on the table yesterday. It's what I'm saying today that comes from these facts. I don't make anything up, I don't add. You mentioned the problem, as you say, the bauk of professors. Are you saying they don't teach in college? That they're not competent, you say, so they shouldn't teach in college? These are the questions we need to answer here. Right? What do you say next? You name the problem of private colleges that have 10 deadlines. How is it possible if there is a law that applies to them and to state colleges? It's very complicated things that you say, but don't follow what we're writing in the amendment. Please tell us what's in our amendment. So let's explain it to you. Let go of those broad stories for the masses. You voted last time they got 50 points, you didn't allow them to have conditions to meet 50 points, and now you accept that you're guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24233	The word is Marko Atlagic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24234	I really have no intention, because I think this is a professional thing, but when a colleague says she doesn't know what human relations are between genders, she asks a pedagogal at a primary school, so she'll say a teaching unit that's being processed, so we won't have violence against women in the family if we deal with these topics. It's really too much, these are professional things, but we're going to law school. If you're talking about savings, you haven't said anything strange, colleague, that teachers in elementary school have two barrels. They keep one at home, one at school. Is that a parent-restriction thing? It's a shame to us, that it exists in this education system. Do you know why two barrels? Someone took the percentage in their pocket. That's what I was saying in this assembly. Not to go wide, I support this law. I'm against your amendment, and you be in favor, I don't mind. I think, in general, this change of law is a genius thing right now. The bologna is a flexible process. That's what matters. I guess I won't explain what it means. Flexible means we can change things again next year. It's a process that needs to be revived. We paint some things from others, etc. When we see that it doesn't show well, then we step away from it. Like normal people, I guess that's how we should do it. I'm sorry about these little intrusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24235	Thank you. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24236	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't talk about the Bucharests because I was talking about my amendment. In my amendment, there are no kegs, only deadlines as a possibility of four to six. When I get to the bokvards, I'll talk about the bokvards. I'm gonna stick to the amendment for now. When you tell me about what human relationships are, I thank you, I'll make sure we find those pedagogues from the 1960s, because that's what they called it, it's true, but I don't think I'm as competent as you are, of course, because you're a doctor of science, and I'm just one pedagogue. Of course, Bologna is a flexible process that changes what appears to be a problem, but we are nowhere to find out what our problem is. That's why we're trying to open up a story here. What's the problem? Why don't we go over the famous 50 points? Why can't we reach them? Why can't students reach the knowledge they need? Why don't we get to sixty, but let's go 50 famous ones? That's what we stand for. We are very specific about our amendment and, of course, we are asking that, as a flexible process, we are talking here, that problems are being identified, that this flexible process, as you say, would not every time in September be here in front of MPs, that we move forward, step back. If that's what you mean by flexibility, to vote one hour at a time, another hour at the opposite, then you're flexible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24237	Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24238	I'm sorry, this is really degutantly more to say, but bauk professors are not the problem of this assembly. We're chasing concepts. It's the ministry's problem and the inspection. Guys, we're the legislative body here. The legislator said a professor could teach in one college, but he's ten. It's not about this assembly, it's about the ministries and the inspections. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I haven't heard from you in a year that you've ever mentioned education, and it seems to me that you're an educational worker by vocality. I'm sorry and thank you. I don't want to hear from you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24239	Thank you. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24240	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is really getting funny. Bauk, Professor, I didn't mention it. You did. I stuck to what's written in my amendment. Bauk professors don't stand in my amendment and I couldn't mention them. You mentioned them. Don't ask me to judge whose need it is to solve the problem of the professor's bogeyman. You mentioned them, you saved them. Secondly, what you haven't heard seems to have been forgotten. I'll take you back to the 25th. June, when we talked about that set of laws. The DSS amendments were just to add education everywhere, and I was basically talking about it, but you forgot. Looks like you're flexible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24241	Thank you. Please, let's finish the replicas. We've got more registered by amendment. The next registered speaker is MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24242	The problems we discussed and the lack of the Law on Higher Education and Practical Problems in applying the Bologna Declaration go contrary to the proposed amendment. In order not to be this that now is the new story of our parliamentary group, we asked last year to remain six probationary deadlines. I would mention that, for example, the president of the National Council for Higher Education in Croatia, it seems to me, last year, that Bologna experienced a total fiasco in Croatia, that students are studying longer and teachers are buried in bureaucracy due to points, mobility has not been significantly increased, etc. Such assessments can be heard with us, especially during student protests, but other assessments can be heard. What I said in the principle debate, it seems to me that we need to repeat that these valid data educational statistics are missing so that we can be fully analytical, precise and clear about which higher education institutions apply "Bolonja" in the way that it is imagined, which do not work in the spirit of both the Ministry and the entire education system. Of course, we even have colleges, law schools, where we vary the number of courses, then the quality of textbooks, the manner of teaching, the number of students in training groups, colloquiums, etc. Then you have that one college has a great transition with some class, and another college in that same class depending on the organisation of the university's work, the quality of textbooks, the quality of teaching, the co-operation of students and professors, that it has completely different results. If, for example, they look at some analyses, then we'll also see the difference between colleges and colleges dealing with different forms of education. For example, the Technology-Mellurical Faculty has almost 100% passability on its exams. Architecturally remarkable percentage of passability, over 97%. Faculty of Electrical Engineering, third to fourth year, almost 92%. Traffic 78%, Economic 77%, I'm talking about colleges in Belgrade, but, let's say, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine has a pass about 5%, the Faculty of Engineering in Bor 18%, Orthodox religion 23%, Faculty of Pharmacy 26%, Philological 30%, etc. What can we conclude from this? That this potential of our students that is remarkable varies, that is, the success of study depends on college to university. Excuse me, between 5% and 97% of passing is a big difference. Who's supposed to play the lead on us now? Well, the Ministry. That's what we talked about and the previous minister, and that's what we're telling you right now, and that's what we're going to remind you if we have bad results for a while as we now have such a huge proportion. Because it wasn't done in all colleges what had to be done we still can't give it to the colleges that they decide whether there will be four deadlines or six deadlines tested. When you give them such powers, more colleges will say – well, why not four exam deadlines, especially state colleges, where students can finance themselves from the budget. Then we didn't go out to meet whoever was supposed to be at the center of the education system, student, but we've already made him very much better. Scientific and educational advice, someone mentioned it, and it needs to be controlled. You have the same textbooks that are from the same class in different colleges, and the difference between the contents of the textbooks is like the sky and the earth, huge. Written by professors who teach one and the same subject, one wrote clearly and understandablely, fluent in examples, while others say students, read and do not understand what it says. Who intervenes here? Nobody. Who pays the price? A student. I graduated law school, we were only in high school once, in court. The whole department's repeating everything that happened in the courtroom today, we haven't forgotten that, we've been absorbing it. Imagine you finish law school and you don't see what the court looks like on the inside, I'm talking about functional literacy, of course. So, from seducing objects, moving objects, getting objects into work, carrying out evidence, making judgments, legal remedies, etc. There are students who have graduated from the Faculty of Law who did not know what the authority of the administration is, and from the place of residence to the university pass past the 10 authorities of the administration, because the textbook in the area was vaguely written and incomprehensible, and they did not have the opportunity to go to the authority of the administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24243	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Neven the Flowering.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24244	I'll be very brief. Since the subject and subject matter of this amendment was submitted by colleagues from the DSS number of deadlines examined, I felt that it was necessary to say precisely and rationally about the test deadlines next. The usual number of test deadlines in the university's most developed countries and in the world's most developed countries is between two and four. So, no less than two, no more than four. We had good intentions with that bill that was loud to introduce it, and even to stick to what was voted a year ago. Unfortunately, this is a state of emergency, this is a state of law and in this state of legal necessity to ensure that students pass some exams so they can enter a year, it's not good to be ambiguous in any sense. So, to be no less than this much, not more than this much, because it can be misused, and it is necessary to definitely state how many test deadlines they can count the most. Let me say one thing. When it comes to student requirements for test deadlines, that's all of us, and that's the subject, there are two kinds of students. One type of good students, advanced ones who require more test deadlines in order to study quickly and who can come out for questioning that some material has been presented to them. To the team, however, the problem is with another type of students taking exams as they go into town, relaxed and unprepared. As they go out to the lottery, so let's say they go out in February, and then they come out again in April, and they come out in June without studying in the meantime. The fundamental problem with the test deadlines that are subject to this amendment is that we will eventually have to separate the grain from the weeds. So to those students who are irresponsible and who go to exams to gamble we send a message that they have so many deadlines tested, mostly at the beginning of the semester and at the end of the semester. When you give the test period in the middle of the semester suffers from classes, students sit at home and prepare exams and do not attend classes. This is an exact problem of test deadlines where eventually we will have to separate the wheat from the weeds, not to further pet and watch over students who steal not only our time here in the Assembly, not just the time of professors, but primarily our time. So, Serbia doesn't have time to wait, and we're going to have to fix this at some point, and that's why at this point, it's better to fix it precisely than to leave it flexible, so let's allow the debate again, and that's how we've been guessing for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24245	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24246	Thank you, Chairman. First, a short replica to Mr. Atlagic. Simply, I am one of the participants in the debate on education where 40 people participated because I am interested in education and in such discussions whenever I can participate. It's not true that no education was mentioned because it's a short shot. The debate lasted three hours, and the show lasted 45 minutes, and somehow the word “examination ” came out in the installation. Second, I'll go back to that ethical question. You just said that these terrible professors are responsible for the ministry. I'm sorry, you said yourself that you have 101 such professors at your university, which depends on 100 students, and I don't know how many. What are you like a man who's interested in education in his university made such a professor change or his work check out? As far as I know, at least you didn't say anything was triggered in that sense. I wanted to tell Mr. Cvetićan that, of course, when it's a state of emergency, if you don't respond to the state of emergency, it can cause very unpleasant consequences. We have to draw a line somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24247	Thank you. Time's up for the MP's group. No, you didn't get the word for the replica, I initially said how much time was left for your MP group. The word is Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24248	It's really strange to me that Mr. Deretta got up in the first place, because I didn't mention him, nor did I mention what the debate was, and in the last two months there were two, two debates on TV, different and on the same subject. When you ask me what I've done. Yes, in public in front of TV cameras, I say that at my university, we have changed the statutes of the university and where the student falls three times to any professor, we have given students the opportunity to seek the exception of the professor and to answer the commission without that professor being a member of the commission. So that's one of the methods, because these are already professional things, but we can talk about professional things, deeply professional things to talk about. I'm really surprised there are some in here who don't know the essence of Bologna. My people, just before someone said that students are learning and teaching now, and they're not just doing the exam at home, during seminar work, they're active in the exercise, and we owe it to and we have lists to record it all there. When he comes out for the exam, we already have 30 or 40 points, and it takes 55. I'm sorry, these are deep professional things. It's hard to say when some here don't know anything, and Mr. Secretary knows it very well. So it's not a classic way of getting a student, a student studying, so two months prepares the exam. No, every activity, presence per hour, his activity in every teaching unit, seminar shop, it's all recorded with a certain number of points, and this is true, I think that's what Mr. Chikiriz said, someone goes by 5% and someone goes by 90%. You know why? Because these elements, seminar work, teaching activities, one professor puts 40 points in his class and another 10 points in his class. This is where the subject's freedom is given. I'm sorry, these are deep professional matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24249	Milenko Deretta, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24250	Thank you. The fact that after three falls on the exam, the student has the right to seek out a commission, it seems to me, and part of the law. So you didn't do anything to go to college against a specific professor who's obviously harassing students in some way. What I was going to add is to add, meeting student requirements, Mr. Cvetićanin made a very clear distinction between different students. What are we going to do if 30,000 students from this other group who allegedly approach studies are relaxed, and I have to say that my kids are getting ready to go out on the street, and very seriously, not just for studies, if they get together and ask to be 30 points prerequisite. So what do we do? Are we going to help and support students like this again to stop them from going out into the streets? No, I hope not, but we will establish very clear criteria that every student will have to meet, and if he doesn't meet them, he will lose his right to go to school in the budget. You can't stop him from going to school, paying for any studies. In that sense, I think we need to be much more determined and much clearer and understand that the question of budget studies is what we are most concerned with and that we are trying to limit it, in order to avoid that legacy from the time when lifelong study was actually a cover-up of unemployment, as it will be in the period ahead of us. It is necessary to clearly limit and establish criteria that apply to all throughout the cycle of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24251	Replica, Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24252	Short for legal discharge, this which is before the Commission after the third probation, that is correct, but there is also a teacher who has it. We have now given them the opportunity to eshumicate this professor, the brand-new three men, he can be present in front of a hundred students etc. So we open up the possibility that students who really might know, that we're giving that pass. In that sense, and someone said that literature has been used for 30 years. Here, in front of the TV cameras I'm talking, there's no history except for two textbooks in the first year, no textbook that's 50 years old. That's ours for real. We need to talk to facts. We have auxiliary historical sciences, we have historical geography, and everything else is literature, some hundred years old, and we have the latest. So I'm talking about textbooks when I speak university. My fellow professors are probably listening to me from the Department of History right now. That's true, our students know that. So I advocate that you precisely, when we speak here, not half-truths and truths, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24253	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Donka Vanovic. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Florist. He did mention you, but it's not offensive. He just realized you made a good difference. You'll get your word back. Ask for the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24254	Here, I'm going to mention Mr. Florist, because my discussion refers to what he was talking about, because he said that this amendment of ours would be adopted if he were to create uncertainty with the students and that they wouldn't know if there would be four or five or six deadlines. That's not true. It is these changes and additions of this same law, with these same members, that these laws create uncertainty, i.e. the Ministry, or the Government of Serbia, or we, or you who each September or October vote a new number of deadlines. Or, if the university did it on sections or whatever, it would be accurate, and the student would know when he enrolls that there might be four deadlines on the first and second, on the third and fourth, but then it would be known. This doesn't leave room for uncertainty, but this would just lead to some kind of order. These constant changes bring uncertainty. Secondly, when you were talking about two kinds of students, it was a little sweet, but a little bit unusual, but what you were talking about is since the world and the century. When I studied there were students who studied, were worthy, passed exams, and others. So it's nothing new. Since the world and the century, students have calculated whether they're going to skip a deadline, so that they can possibly get a better exam, I can't say that they skip it, because they hate it, or that they're coming out relaxedly, but they just can't prepare all the classes, or test, and then some rock jumps.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24255	Mr. Florist, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24256	Very short. First of all, colleagues of Banovic, I absolutely agree with you that since the world and the century there have been those who catch curves, so to speak, and those who really learn. But it is up to us to give priority to those who really learn, because too often in this country they catch curves, not just about this thing, and to learn at that level when they're schooled not to do it. I think, and right now, to relate to what my colleague Derret said, I agree that it takes someone to lose their right to school, conditionally speaking, if they don't meet their obligations, even though they're stealing any time, the professor, their colleagues, etc. Now, how exactly can this be done? Here may even be in the sense of some recommendation to Mr. Secretary. In this topic, we stay on probation. We can't legally regulate it, so let's say, if the student comes out, I don't know, five or ten times he can't get out, but maybe it can be recommended to the colleges to bring some kind of internal act, some kind of internal rule where he's going to be mentioned, if the student goes out ten times for the exam, so he doesn't pass the exam, so he's not the master material in that time, he loses the right to continue to pass that same exam. Here's an example of life, what's going on. That's why I said that students don't just go to exams like they do in the city, relax, they come out like a lottery. So, their logic is, if I go out six times, the seventh time the professor will let me go, because by "inert," it's a bigger time to pass. So we need to send them a message, that it's not possible to think like that, that in this country, especially in colleges, you have to work, learn. No one can pass an exam that came out 11 times. Now the question is whether we can give them a chance at all, both for the ministry and for all colleagues, no matter who the position is, who the opposition is, whether we should give the students a chance. (President: Time. That they go out ten times for exams. I don't think so. Let them sit down and lay down from the first, second or third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24257	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24258	Let me get involved in this debate a little bit. So our amendment went in the direction that colleges should, in accordance with their teaching programmes, decide what the optimal number of exams is, of course, in agreement with students, which is needed to make it easier for students to pass these exams and collect these points, so they can type in next year, because it's not the same thing to have 10 exams, at some technical college, and put it into four deadlines, or maybe on physics, or philosophy to have four exams harder and to stretch it out on a number of deadlines. So we think we should do everything possible to enable students to get to the right number of points through a number of test deadlines, but also through a transparent study process. Not to get to the point that every year in October of the month we change the law because we need to adapt to a group of students who, as Mr. Cveticanin called, coloquially go to exams and – if they pass, pass. Of course, since the centuries and the world were considered to be right, since Joseph Broz, in 1968, and beyond, every time a problem came, I was a student and asked for various privileges. But in order to put the system in order and to produce some quality from that system that is probably our first priority, we need to determine both clear and precise criteria and what students will expect during the next or next years. Not to come every year in a position that we must, either under public pressure, or under the pressure of students, or perhaps under the desire to like a particular group, change laws, lower criteria, and so indirectly affect the quality of study itself. Let's say one year -- the Higher Education Act predicts so many deadlines, so many points, and it won't change for the next three years. There will be no discounts, and then colleges will determine how many deadlines it is, determine certain criteria and to achieve that quality, and so that we can measure it, what comes out of our students by learning or not knowing, let's do one measurement that will be done every year for every generation of students in a given area. For years, it has been said that there has been a significant lack of quality in education and that it is mainly the culprits or the Bologna process or the uncritically large number of newly established private colleges which are primarily of commercial interest above all else. Of course, that doesn't apply transparently to everyone, but for a good number, that syntagma can be applied. In order not to have more doubt, let's make the National Educational Council or the Ministry organise every year the testing, for example, of graduate economists who come from Megatrend and from the FABUSA and from the state economic colleges, with the same questions for everyone, with the same grades for each graduate student, make a sum of how many points there are, and then you say, the average rating of graduate economic students at Belgrade University is eight and a half, on this second seven and a half, at the third six and a half, it's unsatisfactory knowledge of people who go out with that and that college. Let that also affect the process of obtaining or extending a license or some classification of the quality of colleges that will mean his career tomorrow. So whoever wants to put a low-resistance line in some private college where it's a lot easier to get a diploma, let it go, but that means that the grade from that university is very low and his pass is not going to be great anymore. It can't iron out our economy because we don't have a strong enough economy to appreciate quality, but it's the one that ended up in a relationship or in a less-resistance line of study finding a connection and getting into the state service and having an erosion of the quality of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24259	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24260	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I simply have nothing against this proposal that my colleague made, but if the criteria are clearly defined at the outset, how many deadlines are tested. I believe that students should be involved in this kind of decision-making, to make a joint agreement because it is not the same at which college there will be as many exam deadlines. Some may require more, some less test deadlines but should set clear criteria in agreement with the students themselves who will later be respected. I don't think that would cause any particular uncertainty. I have the impression that greater uncertainty among students is the fact that every year in October we change the Law on Higher Education and after this debate the day before and today, I really have a dilemma about whether we are going to meet students or going out to meet the state's inability to modernise higher education in Serbia. It is very important for us from the URS to modernise higher education, improve working conditions in colleges, reform curricula and programmes that are largely outdated, that there are more modern textbooks from which students learn. What is important to us, too, is that students get one functional knowledge that is applicable in practice. It's a common case that our finished students are simply not qualified to work. Here, if you do an analysis of how many of those students, especially state colleges, have practices, you'll see that it's very small and they're not trained to start working right after college, and that's what investors and employers are really looking for today. Also, I have the impression that we don't know how to measure the quality of study at our colleges, whether there's some sort of system of ranking colleges and knowledge students get there. Again, the question is whether we care about the quality of knowledge, skills and competence that young people will bring from those colleges, or whether we will, as people say, just hold on to diplomas. I think that our finished students, in addition to the knowledge they acquire, must have developed a critical opinion, to be innovative, to have initiatives to launch, to be able to solve specific problems, because you know what, these young people are supposed to lead Serbia tomorrow, should bear its development. If we're just, as they say, staging diplomas and we don't have people who are creative, innovative, willing to work, I'm afraid we're gonna have a hard time moving out of place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-09-0.u24261	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) As we have completed the search of amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 10 October 2013 starting at 10.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that after the vote tomorrow we will continue the first session of the Second Regular Session. Thank you.
